1/212

 File No.: PS/00222/2021

- RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE
 

 

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection (as regards
hereafter, AEPD) and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On May 21, 2020, the director of the AEPD, following the same
mo criterion used before any news published in the media
that would affect the processing of health data by the Public Administrations.
cas, and, given the news that appeared in the media regarding the project
of the Government of Spain about the implementation of a tracking application (or App)
treo of possible COVID-19 infected, entrusted to the SECRETARY OF STATE
DIGITALIZATION AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (hereinafter, SEDIA), of the
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION (in
hereafter, the METD), which will use an application programming interface (in addition,
API) of Google and Apple, a protocol to be interoperable between countries, which is
will launch as a pilot in the Canary Islands at the beginning of June, connecting to the systems
health computer systems of the Autonomous Communities, urges the General Subdirectorate
Data Inspection Commission (hereinafter, SGID) to initiate the preliminary actions
of investigation referred to in article 67 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 6
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter, LOPDGDD), in relation to the actions carried out by SEDIA, in case
From such facts, indications of infraction in the area of competence of the
the AEPD.

SECOND: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant party one) dated September 7
2020 files a claim with the AEPD against SEDIA.

In particular, it bases its claim on the following circumstances:

"1. Investigate whether the RadarCovid application complies with the principles of legality,
loyalty, transparency and proactive responsibility of the RGPD (Art. 5), in accordance with
in accordance with the guidelines of the EDPB (Art. 70 RGPD), to the extent that:

(a) SGAD has not published the content of the EIPD, despite the "increased"
recommendation of the EDPB, as well as confirm if SGAD has prepared the EIPD and,
where appropriate, raised the Prior Consultation to the AEPD before carrying out the treatment-
processing of personal data (Art. 35 and 36 RGPD);

(b) SGAD has not published the source code, as required by the EDPB in its
guidelines;

(c) SGAD has not defined in the Privacy Policy the functions and responsibilities
ties of the health authorities of the Autonomous Communities that have completed the pro-
technical processes necessary to integrate the application into your healthcare systems
(Art. 13 and 14 GDPR);

(d) SGAD has not specified clearly enough the different purposes

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/212

data of the treatment and their respective legitimizing bases, in attention to the
provided in section “5. For what and why do we use your data? and “10.
What is the legitimacy for the treatment of your data? of the policy of
emptiness (Art. 13 and 14 RGPD); Y

(e) SGAD has not specified the data retention periods for purposes
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes in the Privacy Policy
ity (Art. 9.2j and 89.1 RGPD).

2. Order SGAD that treatment operations within the framework of Radar-
Covid comply with the GDPR and the EDPB guidelines; Y

3. Sanction SGAD with a warning when treatment operations
have violated the provisions of the GDPR or the guidelines of the EDPB.”

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 5 of
October 2020, in the file with no. of reference E/07823/2020.

On January 24, 2021, claimant one, expands his claim and
sends to the AEPD some complementary allegations based on the following
circumstances:

"1. Incorporate said SUPPLEMENTARY ALLEGATIONS to the investigation
that the AEPD is carrying out due to a possible violation of the regulations
in terms of data protection;

FIRST: Late and incomplete publication of the source code
SECOND: Modification of the data controller
THIRD: Security breach
FOURTH: Data communications to the “EU interoperability gateway”
FIFTH. Modification of the RadarCOVID Privacy Policy

2. Extend the claim to the new data controllers.
the RadarCOVID application identified in it (i.e. Ministry of Health and
Departments of Health of the corresponding Autonomous Communities and Cities
nomic) for holding these the passive legitimation in the present procedure;

3. Where appropriate, order those responsible or in charge of Ra-
darCOVID that treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
GDPR, when applicable, in a certain way and within a specified period.
cified, in accordance with the express guidelines and interpretations made
given by the EDPB on the matter; Y

4. If applicable, sanction anyone responsible for or in charge of Ra-
give COVID with warning when the treatment operations have in-
infringed the provisions of the RGPD, in accordance with the express guidelines and
interpretations made by the EDPB on the matter.”

THIRD: B.B.B. together with ten more professors (hereinafter, the claimant two),
dated October 1, 2020, files a claim with the AEPD, with the
following tenor:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/212

“We hereby inform you of a security breach in the App Radar
COVID, reported to SEDIA and Indra S.A, on September 16, 2020. Ad-
we put together the technical report as well as the legal assessment in the legal note that
we sent the Vice President Nadia Calviño and the Secretary of State Carme
Artigas this Monday, September 28”.

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 5 of
October 2020, in the file with no. of reference E/07905/2020.

FOURTH: C.C.C. (hereinafter, claimant three) dated October 5,
2020, files a claim with the AEPD.

In particular, it reports how a design decision in the tracking application
contacts Radar COVID puts the privacy of its users at risk.

“Specifically, the risk comes from only COVID-positive users uploading
the TEK keys (keys with the result of a test) to the radar server-covid-backend-
dp3t-server ( https://radarcovid.covid19.gob.es , with IP ***IP.1, ***IP.2, ***IP.3, ***IP.4
accessible via CloudFront CDN). Therefore, each time a sub-
get the key from a phone to the endpoint ' /v1/gaen/exposed ' of this server,
it can be inferred that the owner of the phone is COVID-positive. The encryption in-
between the application and the server does not help to hide that information: even if the en-
dpoint and the content of the upload are not observable, the length of the messages re-
will watch for an upload of the TEK key to the server.”

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 16
October 2020, in the file with no. of reference E/08295/2020.

FIFTH: RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL SPAIN (hereinafter, claimant four)
dated February 26, 2021 files a claim with the AEPD.

In particular, it bases its claim on the following circumstances:

“- After becoming aware of the processing, by this Agency, of a pro-
ex officio proceeding investigating the contact tracing application Radar CO-
VID, and having detected a series of potential risks for privacy and
non-compliance with the applicable guidelines, the RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL association
NAL SPAIN submits a document for incorporation into the procedure, in which
irregularities are denounced with respect to the publication of the application code
tion.
 - In this sense, attention is drawn to the fact that, despite being able to
be downloaded the application in various Autonomous Communities (it is even licensed
released a version for a pilot project), the code was not published until 9
September 2020, and the same differed from the one that the application had in its initial version.
cial. In addition, to date, the history of the development of the
app, that is, the history with all the data and steps that have been taken since the
beginning of its development.
 - In relation to the pilot, the association criticizes that, since the
source code, its exact scope is unknown, although downloads are not
were geolocated, and, therefore, the app could be downloaded and installed
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

4/212

from any geographical area. The indices used to quantify the success of
the action went beyond the territory delimited for the tests, and could affect
to users not informed or aware of the use of information from their terminals
- The association considers that the aforementioned lack of transparency caused
a delay in detecting a breach of personal data in the app, since,
as it was later discovered, it only sent information to the server in case of
detect a positive.
- Finally, the association draws attention to some relative deficiencies
to the Impact Assessment document, which was recently published, in January
2021, even though the app was available as early as June 2020.
According to their change control, the published version is the November 2020 version, not
indicating anything about previous versions, changes made, and
the risks that may have been detected after the evaluation
initial. They question the usefulness of an impact assessment presented and elaborated
give it this way.”

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 12 of
March 2021, in the file with no. of reference E/02649/2021.

SIXTH: Within the framework of the previous investigation actions, five
information requests addressed to SEDIA, on different dates:

Secure Verification Code Requirement

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Fifth

***CSV.1
***CSV.2
***CSV.3
***CSV.4
***CSV.5

Required date
I lie

Notification date-
tion required
I lie

05/26/2020

08/18/2020

09/18/2020

02/10/2020

10/26/2020

06/07/2020

08/29/2020

09/29/2020

10/13/2020

06/11/2020

In the first request, dated May 26, 2020, the following was requested:
information:

(…)
Regarding the treatments
1.- Information about the specific purposes of the app and the data processing
personal data provided within the framework of the aforementioned app.

2.- Information on the types of personal data that could be collected.
users for these treatments, specifically specifying the
health data, location and identification data, in question. Indicate the character
ter obligatory or voluntary to facilitate them. Storage period planned for
each of the aforementioned data or data types.
3.- About the location data that is collected, information about the treatments

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/212

subsequent procedures provided with said data and their purposes. additionally
information on the processes of anonymization and/or pseudonymization applied
two.
4.- Detail of the forecast of use of the app in terms of obligation and al-
cancel:

4.1.- Information on the mandatory use of the App.
4.2.- Information on the compatibility of the App with the different versions
operating systems (ANDROID and IOS).
4.3.- Solutions contemplated for users of incompatible systems
and other operating systems (Windows Mobile, etc…).
4.4.- Measures planned for use by minors and
guarantee.

5.- Provided third-party entities involved in the processing, public and
private. Identification of these and a copy of the contracts/agreements signed by
SEDIA and successive subcontracting.
6.- Information on the planned transfers and identification of the categories of
recipients and legitimizing framework in which they will be carried out
7.- Information on compliance with data protection principles,
mainly from the principle of proportionality, limitation of purpose, as well as
of the minimization of the data collected, according to the intended purposes.
Copy of the reports that reflect the studies carried out in your case.
Regarding data storage and security
8.- Description of the databases or files involved in the process,
both in mobile terminals and in central services and communities
autonomous.
Record structure and description of the contents. Description of the
metadata, IP, port, IMEI, device identification, etc… as well as the
purpose for which the data is used.
Information on whether data relating to diagnostic tests are included
in these databases and are associated with the users of the applications.
Information on the location of the information collection servers and
the entities in charge of managing said servers.
9.- Copy of the risk analysis on the rights and freedoms of users
of the app made on the possible treatment of data and the evaluation of
impact related to data protection to be made on this initiative.
10.- Description of the technical and organizational measures implemented that
guarantee the security of personal data, both from the client
downloaded by users as of the information treated in the part of the
server, including, at least, user management, access control,
access log files (logs), backup and procedure of
security breach management. Information on whether the data is stored
ciphers and, if applicable, type of encryption.
11.- Copy of the analysis and management of security risks in the context of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/212

National Security Scheme.
Regarding the App and APIs of Google and Apple
12.- Copy of the Privacy Policy of the app. Copy of any other
evaluation of the data processing foreseen in the app carried out by its
part to date, if any. 12.- Start-up date
provided for the aforementioned app.
13.- Copy of the technical documentation of both the app and the APIs
used in the development of this that includes information on the structure of
data and processes.
14.- Information on whether said application and the interfaces (API) are code
open and whether such APIs have been audited by a third party
independent national or international entity and its result.
15.- Information about the resources of the mobile devices you access
the app and the purpose of each access. Information provided to the user about
these entrances.
16.- Information about the resources of the mobile devices to which
access the APIs and the purpose of each access. Information provided to
user about these accesses.
17.- Description of the tracking and alert procedure including:

 - Description of the tracking procedure. Generation procedure
identifiers, frequency of change, locations in which they are stored
and period of conservation of these in each location.
 - Detailed description of the communication procedure to users
who have been close to a user who has been found to be infected,
detailing the information communicated.
- Authorities and/or third parties to whom the identifiers are provided.
- Description of the procedure by which a positive is reported
infected with COVID-19. Who introduces it in the circuit. Description of
procedure that guarantees that it is a positive verified by the
health authorities and not a false positive.

Regarding data transmissions
18.- Description of the data transmissions specifying the networks,
protocols and encryption.
19.- Description of the data frames that are transmitted, structure and
contents. Description of the metadata, IP, port, IMEI, Identification of the
device, location, etc… as well as the purpose for which it is used.
this data and which of them are recorded in the files.
The suspension of administrative deadlines provided for in the Additional Provision
third of Royal Decree 463/2020, which declares the state of alarm
for the management of the health crisis situation caused by COVID-19, in
its section 4 establishes: "Notwithstanding the provisions of sections
above, from the entry into force of this royal decree, the entities of the
public sector may agree with reasons to continue those

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/212

administrative procedures that refer to situations
closely linked to the facts justifying the state of alarm, or that
are essential for the protection of the general interest or for the
basic operation of services.
Taking into account the particularly sensitive nature of the data in question,
This Agency considers that this is an emergency case that cannot be postponed, in
which it is necessary to safeguard the fundamental right to the protection of
personal data, so its urgent nature would be undermined if it were seen
affected by the suspension of deadlines decreed (...).

In the second request, dated August 18, 2020, the following was requested:
information:

(…)
1.- Updating of the information and documentation provided regarding the system
RADAR COVID that may have changed from the pilot version.
2.- Copy of the service contracts provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS).
3.- Information on the role played by the Secretary of State for
Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, as well as the Ministry of Health in the
management of the RADAR COVID system, and where appropriate, a copy of the contracts or
agreements signed between the two.
4.- Regarding the treatments carried out by the Autonomous Communities:

• Information on the role played by the Autonomous Communities in
the management of the RADAR COVID system, and where appropriate, a copy of the contracts
or signed agreements.
• Description of the treatments they carry out.
• Detailed description of the procedure established for communication
of the positive identifiers of COVID 19. Copy of the protocols and
documentation about it.
• Description of the information system used by the CCAA for the
management of diagnostic codes.
• Description of the security measures of this system, including the
management of users and passwords (registration and cancellation procedure) and type of
communication encryption.

5.- Regarding data storage and security

5.1.-Description of the back-end databases:

Structure of the database, description of the tables and each
one of the fields.
Printed copy of a complete record of each table including the
description of the contents of the fields.
Information on whether the data is stored encrypted and, if so,
encryption type.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/212

5.2.- Copy of the risk analysis on the rights and freedoms of
users of the app made about the possible data processing of
personal nature and the impact assessment related to data protection
make about this initiative.
5.3.- Description of the technical and organizational measures implemented
that guarantee the security of personal data, including the management
of users, access control, access log files (logs), copy
security and security breach management procedure.
5.4- Copy of the security risk analysis and management in the context of
National Security Scheme.

6.- Description of the interoperability procedure with other Apps
developed for the same purpose by third countries.

6.1.- Data that is shared or is planned to be shared by users.
6.2.- Description of the procedure established to share said data.
6.3.- Description of the data collection procedure for
user identifiers of other Apps.
6.4.- Description of the communication procedure to users of other
Apps that have been in contact with positive users. (…)

In the third requirement, dated September 18, 2020, the
Next information:

 (…)
1.- Purposes for which Firebase software libraries are used
Google after completing the pilot phase, and in particular those that use the service
Google analytics, as can be seen from the app code recently
made public on hithub.com (On lines 198-199:// Recommended: Add
the Firebase SDK
implementation
'com.google.firebase:firebase-analytics-ktx:17.5.0').(…)

  Google Analytics.

for

 

In the fourth request, dated October 2, 2020, the following was requested:
information:

This Agency has received a document reporting a
security incident detected in relation to the Radar COVID app that
is stated verbatim:
“only COVID positive users upload TEK keys (keys with the
test result) to the radar-covid-backend-dp3t-server, https://
radarcovid.covid19.gob.es/ (with IP: ***IP.1, ***IP.2, ***IP.3, ***IP.4 accessible
via CloudFront CDN). Therefore, whenever a
key upload from a phone to the endpoint of this server
'/v1/gaen/exposed', it can be inferred that the owner of the phone is
COVID positive. The encryption between the application and the server does not help
cover up that information: even if the endpoint and upload content
are not observable, the length of the messages will reveal a rise in the
TEK key to the server.
Communication can be observed by various entities. For example,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/212

the telecommunications provider (if the connection is made through
GSM); the Internet service provider if the connection is made through
from Internet; or anyone with access to the same network (WiFi or
Ethernet) than the user. In the case of the appRadar COVID, in which the
Uploads are done using the Cloudfront endpoint that is used for uploading.
downloading the TEKs, Amazon also has the ability to
observe the IP addresses of Radar COVID users and associate them with the
fact that these users report a positive COVID test.
Observable IP addresses constitute personal data as they
"contain information concerning natural persons 'identified or
identifiable'" (the Judgment of the Third Chamber of the
Supreme Court, Section. 6, of October 23, 2014, ECLI:
ES:TS:2014:3896, interpreting the old LOPD). But besides the fact
communicate the IP address, given that, as shown in the
technical report, only COVID positive users upload the keys to the
radar server-covid-backend-dp3t-server, that IP is associated with the
uploaded TEK key data, which always corresponds to the communication
of a positive COVID test.
In this way, the operation of the app allows linking in a way
unequivocal an IP with the fact that its owner is uploading a test
COVID positive. Thus, without the user being aware of it, the
app makes it possible for third parties to know that the owner of an IP is
infected by the virus, which implies the communication of a sensitive data, to the
be a health data (data specially protected according to art.
9 GDPR). While the processing of the IP address is necessary for the
operation of the application, the possibility of associating the IP with the upload
of a positive test is not.”
In use of the powers conferred by article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016,
on the protection of natural persons with regard to
processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data (in
hereinafter, RGPD), and Art. 67 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), it is requested that within ten business days, we
inform if they are aware of this fact and, if applicable, the measures
taken for resolution.

In the fifth and last request, dated October 26, 2020, the following was requested:
following information:

(…)
1.- Number of identifiers that have been affected by the vulnerability
dad.
2. Detailed description of the actions carried out to resolve it, including
Going date of the measures adopted and date of their implementation.
3.- Information regarding whether you are aware of the use by third parties
ros of the exposed data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/212

4.- Communications protocol used between the app and the backend and des-
Detailed description of the type of encryption used. (…)

SEVENTH: In view of the allegations provided by SEDIA in response to the requests
requests made, the SGID issued a report on previous investigative actions
tion within the framework of the file with reference number E/03936/2020, dated
February 26, 2021, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation)
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
do in article 67 of the LOPDGDD, with the following tenor:

"BACKGROUND
On May 21, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Protection
Data tion agrees to initiate these investigation actions in relation to
with the news that appeared in the media about the project of the Government
government for the implementation of a bluetooth tracking app for possible infected
of COVID-19.
INVESTIGATED ENTITIES
During these proceedings, investigations have been carried out on the following
entities:
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation - SEDIA- Secretariat of
State of Digitization and Artificial Intelligence- with NIF S2833002E with address
at Calle Poeta Joan Maragall 41 - 28071 Madrid.
Ministry of Health -SGSDII- General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information and
Innovation of the National Health System with address in PASEO DEL PRADO,
18-20 - 28071 Madrid.
RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION ACTIONS
1. With dates of 5/26, 8/17, 9/18, 10/2 and 10/26, 2020, the Inspectorate notified
tion of Data two separate information requirements to the Secretary of State of
Digitization and Artificial Intelligence requesting various information and documentation
tion in relation to the mobile application (app) that will allow contact tracing
by Bluetooth with the aim of early detection of possible infected by CO-
VID-19 (COVID RADAR). With dates 5/6, 18/6, 3/7, 21/7, 28/7, 1/9, 22/9, 23/9,
On 10/9, 10/15, 10/27, 10/30 and 11/5, 2020, respective written responses were received.
by completing the information requirements made.
From the information and documentation provided, the following can be deduced:
1.1.- On October 9, 2020, the "Agreement between the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation (Secretariat of State for Digitization
tion and Artificial Intelligence) and the Ministry of Health about the application “RA-
GIVE COVID.””, whose purpose is:

a) Delegate to the General Secretariat of Digital Administration (hereinafter,
SGAD) of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, all
all the skills of design, development, implementation and evolution of the
"RADAR COVID" application that correspond to the General Directorate of
Digital Health and Information Systems for the National Health System
by virtue of the provisions of article 8.2.a) of Royal Decree 735/2020, of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/212

August 4, which develops the basic organic structure of the Mi-
Ministry of Health, the General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information and
Innovation of the National Health System. The General Secretariat of Health
Digital, Information and Innovation of the National Health System has approved
previously endorsed the delegation of all these powers in the SGAD
in accordance with the provisions of article 9.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1,
tuber.
b) Delegate to the SGAD the competence of the Minister of Health to suspend
write collaboration agreements with the autonomous communities and cities
ration for the adherence of these to the use of the "RADAR COVID" application,
in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of the Preliminary Title of the Law
40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector. without per-
judgment of the support that the Secretariat will provide to facilitate its processing
General of Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the National System
of health.

The descriptive part of the Agreement includes the following in the sixth point:
“Sixth.- That, since May 2020, the SGAD has been developing-
with the knowledge and agreement of the Ministry of Health, an appli-
cation for traceability of contacts in relation to the occasional pandemic
given by COVID-19 called “COVID RADAR”. During the month of July
2020, with the agreement of the General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and
Innovation of the Ministry of Health, the SGAD successfully carried out the pro-
pilot project of the same, whose success guarantees the viability of the proposed solution.
set up for close contact tracing.”
1.2 The representative of the SGAD states, in writing dated 9/1/2020, res-
regarding the RADAR COVID system that the Ministry of Health has the condition
responsible for the treatment, and each Autonomous Community will be res-
responsible for processing the data in their respective field, while the
General Secretariat of Digital Administration (Secretariat of State for Digitali-
tion and Artificial Intelligence) has the status of data processor.
1.3.- The "RADAR COVID" system is made up of:
• An app for mobile devices called “COVID RADAR” that collects
ge proximity identifiers of users from this and uses the interface of
application programming (API) developed by Google and Apple.

• A Web service that is made available to the governments of the Communities.
Autonomous Units (CCAA) to distribute the codes that allow the
users of the app who have tested positive in a COVID-19 test, send the
proximity identifiers of the last 14 days kept in the terminal
mobile terminal to the server.

• In addition, the health services of the Autonomous Communities must establish the procedures
methods and procedures necessary to facilitate users who have given
positive in the COVID-19 test a security code that is the key
to upload to the server the proximity identifiers that they keep in
mobile devices.

The first two have been developed by the Government of Spain with the fi-
purpose of helping prevent the spread of COVID-19 by identifying potential
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

12/212

Possible contacts that a person who becomes infected may have had in
the last 14 days and the third is the responsibility of the Health Service of
each CCAA.
1.4.- On June 15, 2020, it was agreed by the Secretary General of the
Digital Administration the contracting of services for the traceability of
contacts in relation to the pandemic caused by COVID 19 to Indra
Information Technologies S.L. (hereinafter INDRA). As stated in the
object of the contract included in the "Specifications of conditions for the design,
Development, pilot and evaluation of a system that allows contact tracing in
relation to the pandemic caused by covid-19” dated June 12,
2020, the implementation project would have three phases: pre-pilot phase, pilot phase
and post-pilot phase.
1.5.- The Government launched the pilot project on June 29 and ended on July 29
2020 on the island of La Gomera in coordination with the Government of Canada.
rias, with the Government of the Cabildo de La Gomera and with the City Council of San
Sebastián de La Gomera, as well as with the Canary Islands Health Service.
Subsequently, the Autonomous Communities have been incorporated into the project.
but in the testing phase until the signing of the agreement to be signed with each one
of them, on the following dates: Andalusia, Aragon, Cantabria and Extremadura.
ra on August 19, Canary Islands and Castilla y León on August 20, Balearic Islands on August 24
August, Murcia on August 25, Madrid and Navarra on September 1, La
Rioja on September 3, Asturias on September 4, Com. Valencian on 8
September, Melilla and Galicia on September 14, Castilla-la Mancha on September 18
September, Basque Country on September 21, Ceuta on September 24,
2020.
The implementation and use in tests throughout the national territory of the application
cation is covered by an Agreement of the Interterritorial Council of the System
National Health Council adopted on August 19, 2020, with the sequence
temporary agreement with SEDIA.

Regarding the principles of proportionality, purpose limitation, as well as
as minimization of the data collected according to the intended purposes.
you.

1.6.- They state that the main purpose of the application is to allow alerting
People who have been in contact with someone infected with COVID-
19 and inform them of the measures that should be taken afterwards, such as submitting
self-quarantine or diagnostic tests, or provide counseling
advice on what to do if you experience any symptoms. That is,
therefore, useful both for citizens and for public health authorities.
public. It can also play an important role in managing
confinement measures during possible de-escalation situations.
1.7.- They state that only the data required is collected
for the indicated purposes.
Neither the exact time nor the place of storage is carried out.
touch, however, they consider it useful to store the day of the contact to know if
occurred when the person was experiencing symptoms (or forty-eight hours
ras before) and define more precisely the follow-up message in which
advice is offered relating, for example, to the duration of the auto
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

13/212

quarantine.
1.8.- Regarding whether the measure is necessary, in the sense that there is no other
more moderate for the achievement of such purpose with equal efficiency,
party:
“It is very important to consider the real usefulness, necessity and effectiveness of
this Application, as well as its impact on the broader social system, including
fundamental rights and freedoms, considering that these applications
tions set a precedent for the future use of similar invasive technologies.
homes, even after the COVID-19 crisis.
The emergency situation cannot lead to a suspension of the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data. But, at the same time, the
data protection regulations may not be used to hinder or limit
assess the effectiveness of the measures adopted by the competent authorities,
especially the health ones, in the fight against the epidemic, since it
provide solutions that make it possible to reconcile the legal use of personal data
with the necessary measures to effectively guarantee the common good.
The grounds that legitimize/make such processing possible are the necessity
need to attend to missions carried out in the public interest, as well as that of
guarantee the vital interests of those affected or of third parties
nas, by virtue of what is stated in Considering 46 of the RGPD, where it is re-
knows that in exceptional situations, such as an epidemic, the legal basis
of the treatments can be multiple, based both on the public interest,
as in the vital interest of the interested party or another natural person.
 The processing of personal data should also be considered lawful when
is necessary to protect an interest essential to the life of the data subject or
that of another natural person. In principle, personal data should only be
be treated on the basis of the vital interest of another natural person when the treatment
ment cannot manifestly be based on a different legal basis.
Certain types of treatment may serve both important reasons for
public interest as well as the vital interests of the data subject, such as
when the treatment is necessary for humanitarian purposes, including the control
of epidemics and their spread, or in situations of humanitarian emergency,
especially in case of natural or man-made disasters.
Therefore, if we proceed to make a judgment of necessity, that is, certain
decide if the treatment is necessary, in the sense that there is no other alternative.
goes less invasive to privacy to achieve this purpose with the same
efficiency or with reasonable efficiency, it should be noted that the legislation
sector in health matters does not currently have sufficient instruments
ciently precise that would allow facing a situation such as the crisis
health in which the country is still immersed.
In this sense, specific measures have been approved, such as the development
of an application such as the one being evaluated, which reinforce the instruments
coordination and cooperation in public health matters in sight
of the global characteristics of the epidemic.
1.9.- Regarding proportionality, they add:
“In this case, the benefit will have to be measured in terms of a lower proportion.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

14/212

payment of the infection in global terms, with the possibility of recovering
freedom of action, and protection of the health of individuals. The data
of health have a high value, so it must be prevented that, taking advantage of
the uncertainty caused by an emergency situation, abuses
by third parties that lead to situations of loss of freedom
discrimination or other damages in the personal situation of citizens.
It is therefore a matter of making an assessment of the benefits that this treatment
training promises to contribute in the fight against the pandemic and the costs in the
privacy of individuals they may carry.
Regarding the possible damages or threats that an application
cation like this for privacy will have to take into account how it has been
carried out the application that we are evaluating and what its objectives are.
These threats may appear due to the urgency to offer solutions in
operation that relax controls and requirements to protect data
of the citizen. For example, possible threats to the
privacy in its implementation. On the other hand, we must not forget
that an app or a web is only an interface to display and bring data to
A server.
The main threats to the privacy of this type of solutions come from
the realization of maps of relationships between people, reidentification by
implicit calization, of the fragility of protocols when building “cards
tas” almost anonymous, and to disperse the signs of contagion in such a way that
the identity of those infected is not identified in any case. must have
Keep in mind that the treatment of the information not only affects the user of the
application but also that of all third parties with whom it has been in contact.
touch, so this treatment must comply with the principles of protection of
data.
There are studies on the robustness of cryptography and anonymization protocols.
tion (see attached document 12. DP3T - Data Protection and Security), and always
pre there is a possibility that applying sufficient time and capacity of
computer can break down and associate anonymous nicknames with phone numbers.
phone and people. From a privacy point of view, the more calculations
is done on the server side, the less control users have, so
that centralized solutions always seem less respectful of the
privacy than those distributed. The possibility that, due to the accumulation
data centrally, an abuse occurs in a company
unethical, the purposes of the treatment will be expanded or if you were a victim of
a cyber attack constitutes another of the greatest threats of this type of solution.
tions.
Regarding the benefits that this type of treatment can represent, it is
It is important to bring up the analysis carried out by the AEPD itself on whether the
The use of these data represents an important benefit in the pandemic crisis.
determining that the success of this type of solutions is based on many
many factors that do not depend on technology. First of all, it is necessary
would involve the involvement of a large number of users, some studies speak
of at least 60% of a population which, taking into account children and
the elderly account for almost all mobile users. On the other hand, depending
that a responsible statement be made about the personal situation of
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

15/212

infection, preferably supervised by a professional to avoid strategies
misinformation scams. Finally, it is necessary to have access to test,
not only for all users, but to be able to update the information required
periodically and so that those who are notified of having been in
contact with an infected person can test promptly.
However, and always under a respectful use with the privacy of the users.
rios, the following benefits can be deducted:
Benefits for those interested
.- People who have been very close to someone who turns out to be a
confirmed carrier of the virus will be informed about it, in order to break
transmission chains as soon as possible.
Likewise, they will be informed of the measures that should be adopted afterwards,
such as undergoing self-quarantine or diagnostic testing, or providing
advice on what to do if you experience this or that symptom.
.- The installation of the application on the device is voluntary, without consequences.
any negative opinion for those who decide not to download or use the application.
.- The user maintains control of their personal data.
.- The use of the Application does not require tracking the location of the
individual users; instead proximity data is used
.- The information collected is stored in the user's terminal equipment and is only
collect pertinent information when absolutely necessary.
Benefits for the Administration
.- People who have been very close to someone who turns out to be a
confirmed carrier of the virus will be informed about it, in order to break
transmission chains as soon as possible.
.- Simple technology.
.- The personal data protection regulations contain a regulation
for the use of cases such as the treatment carried out with this
Application, which reconciles and weighs the interests and rights in contention for
the common good.
.- It plays an important role in the management of confinement measures.
during possible de-escalation situations.
.- It is not necessary for an authority to store real contact information.
.- Its impact can be reinforced by a strategy that favors the
expanding testing to people with mild symptoms.
Alternatives to treatment and why they have not been chosen:
In conclusion, it should be noted that this Application cannot replace, but
merely supplement, the manual contact tracing carried out by people
qualified health professional, who can determine if close contacts can
whether or not they lead to virus transmission.
This tracking task is complex, mainly because it requires professionals to
health professionals have quick and reliable information on the contacts of the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

16/212

patients, so it can be concluded that the use of this Application meets
with the principles of suitability since the evaluated treatment achieves the objectives
proposed objectives and the judgment of necessity since, currently, there is no other
less intrusive alternative to privacy to achieve this purpose with
equally effective or reasonably effective.
The application is constituted as a complementary tool of the techniques
traditional contact-tracing techniques (particularly from interviews with
infected people), that is, it is part of a public health program of
greater range and the objective is that it be used exclusively until the moment
moment when manual contact tracing techniques can manage
alone the volume of new infections.”

Regarding the specific purposes of the app and data processing
personal:

1.10.- They state that the objectives pursued with this alert application
of infections are as follows:
• Preserve public health without giving up the privacy of citizens.
•

Stay one step ahead of COVID-19 by proactively alerting people
You are at risk of incubating the virus.

• Minimize the economic impact of COVID-19, by controlling the pandemic

without drastic measures and facilitating the movement of people.

The main functionality of the application is to allow people to be alerted
who have been in contact with someone infected with COVID-19 and report
them of the measures that should be adopted later, such as submitting to an auto
quarantine or diagnostic tests. The ultimate goal is that people
who have been in close proximity to someone who turns out to be a confirmed carrier
of the virus are informed about it, in order to break the chains of
transmission as soon as possible.
1.11.- The mobile application implements a contact alert version
(“contact tracing”) in accordance with the “Decentralized Privacy-Preserving” protocol.
ving Proximity Tracing” (DP-3T), making use of the API developed jointly-
mind by Apple and Google of this protocol, through what is known as API
“Exposure Notification”. The app does not geolocate the user or allow tracking
of their location, but is based on the exchange of pseudo-identifiers
random, anonymous, and ephemeral data between the user's device and other phones.
us nearby mobiles, all via Bluetooth low energy. Neither does the app.
requires the identification or login process, nor does it request any personal data.
According to this protocol, when a person tests positive for
COVID-19 and decide to share this data, only the
anonymous pseudocodes that he has issued and not those that he has detected from others
nearby mobiles, unlike the centralized model that sends everyone. For the
Therefore, the collation and analysis of data is carried out on the mobile of each user
and not on the server.

Regarding the types of data collected from users

1.12.- The application does not require registration and does not ask the user for any data
personal character, they are only stored in the user's terminal equipment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/212

pseudo-random codes or Proximity Identifier, which are data generated
generated by exchanging Bluetooth low energy signals
(BLE) between devices within a relevant distance from the point of
epidemiological point of view and for a relevant time also from the point of
epidemiological view.
The app does not collect location data.
These proximity identifiers are communicated only when
confirmed that a user in question is infected with COVID-19 and on condition
tion that the person opts for this to be done. These proximity data
are generated through the Google and Apple APIs without reference to any
user or device data.

Regarding the planned retention period for the data:

1.13.- The proximity data will be deleted when they are no longer necessary
to alert people and at the latest after a period of one month (period-
incubation rate plus margin).
The data is stored on the user's device, and only those that have
have already been communicated by users and that are necessary to comply with the
purpose are uploaded to the central positive validation server available.
health authorities when such an option has been chosen (i.e.,
only the data would be uploaded to the "close contacts" server of a
person who has tested positive for COVID-19 infection).
The application does not request personal data and the data of keys infected al-
stored on the server, they will be kept for the duration of the crisis
of COVID-19.

Regarding the forecast of use of the app in terms of obligation and
scope

1.14.- Downloading the app is voluntary, the user can turn off the Blue-
tooth and uninstall it at any time.
The app will be available on devices with iOS operating system, from
version 13.5, and Android, from version 6.0 and later, whichever is
tima that covers 99% of smart mobile phones, according to the share of
market published by specialized magazines.
The app warns that those under 18 years of age will not be able to use the services available.
available through the App without the prior authorization of their parents, guardians or
legal representatives, who will be solely responsible for all
acts carried out through the App by minors in their charge.

Regarding the tracking and alert procedure:

1.15.- The identifier generation procedure follows the implementa-
tion of the DP-3T protocol in the “Exposure Notification” API of Apple and Google.
Ephemeral tokens are rotated every 10-20 minutes, and are discarded when
after 14 days.
1.16.- Notification alerts only present information about: the weather
of exposure, the date it occurred, and the level of severity, on a scale
high and low. It comes as an in-app notification, which you can

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/212

be consulted at all times through the notification history.
At no time are personal data offered about the person with whom
contact was maintained.
1.17.- The procedure by which an infected positive is communicated
of COVID-19 is as follows:

1.- The patient performs a test through their Public Health Service.
2.- If the test result is positive, the health service informs
of the detection of a positive and a unique one-time key is requested.
3.- A positive confirmation code is generated that is communicated to the
authorized health officer.
4.- When the patient receives a positive result in the Covid-19 test,
You are provided with the one-time confirmation code, which you can enter
put in your App.
5.- With the patient's consent, his phone sends the confirmation code
one-time signature, which is verified by the server, and the his-
Toric the last 14 days of Bluetooth keys on the central server.
Regarding the treatments carried out by the Autonomous Communities:

1.18.- The Autonomous Communities, as data controllers in their respective field,
They are responsible for providing a code (12-digit PIN) to customers.
patients who are positive in the PCR test for COVID19 and who have the
RADAR COVID app installed on your mobile device. In this sense, from
the centralized alert management system a web service has been enabled
from which a set of codes is made available to the Autonomous Communities
sites. From there, each CCAA must define a custody procedure and
distribution of those positive codes to patients diagnosed with CO-
VID19 guaranteeing the custody of these codes and their distribution according to
to the procedure defined in each CCAA by virtue of its competences in the
healthcare field.
1.19.- The sending of positive identifiers between the central server and the Autonomous Communities
does not use certificates, but key pairs (public-private) that are generated in
the CCAAs. The Autonomous Communities include a JWT token in the request (procedure that
enables the authentication process between an identity provider and a
service provider through a URL, which they generate signed with their primary key.
vada).
From the central server, the signature of the JWT token of the request is validated with the
public key that they have previously shared.
Additionally, a field containing the signature is included in the response.
base64 of the concatenation of all the supplied codes and is used to
generate said signature the private key of the server. The Autonomous Communities validate that signature
with the server's public key, which is included in the integration document.
tion, to ensure that there has been no alteration of the codes provided.
The delivery of public keys is done privately between the CCAA and the
service provider and an ad-hoc procedure will be defined in the case of
that a public key of a CCAA could have been compromised since

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/212

once a key in a CCAA is identified as having been compromised,
it can be removed from the system or replaced by another. For the same reason
there is no code revocation procedure, but it is equally possi- ble
could be deleted or expired.

Regarding the third parties involved in the treatments:

1.20.- Indra Information Technologies S.L:
The "Condition specifications for the design, development, pilot and evaluation of a
system that allows contact tracing in relation to the occasional pandemic
affected by covid-19”, accepted by INDRA, includes in the object of the contract
the needs to be covered and, among others, the following clauses:

“5.4. Infrastructure in the cloud (cloud).
It will be specified that the Backend developments are carried out in an infrastructure
structure in the cloud in self-management mode, to facilitate agility
in solution development.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, both storage and any activity
Data processing authority will be located in the territory of the European Union.
ropea, whether these are provided and managed by the awarded company
taria or by its contractors and collaborators, and will be hosted on servers
and/or data processing centers of the awardee company itself or of
your contractors.
…
As far as possible, the use of components will be sought.
in the cloud infrastructure that allow the future migration of the solution
tion to the SARA cloud of the AGE.
6.1. General Confidentiality
The contractor undertakes to guarantee the strictest confidentiality
privacy and reserve on any data or information that may have
access or could know on the occasion of the execution of the contract, as well
and on the results obtained from their treatment, since only
will be used to achieve the object of the contract, they cannot
communicating, using, or transferring them to third parties under any con-
I accept, not even for its preservation. These obligations extend
give to all persons who, depending on the contractor or by
their account, have been able to intervene in any of the execution phases
tion of the contract.
The obligation of confidentiality and reserve entails that of custody and im-
request access to the information and documentation provided and to those
resulting from your treatment of any third party outside the contracted service.
Stated, understanding as such any person outside the company
sa contractor like anyone who, although not being a contractor, is not authorized
to access such information.
Likewise, the contractor undertakes to ensure the integrity of the
data, that is, to the protection of the information provided and to that which
result of its treatment against unauthorized modification or destruction
gives of the data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/212

6.2. Personal data protection
The provisions of organic law 3/2018, of 5 December, must be complied with.
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
digital, adapted to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament
peo and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, and by which the Di-
Directive 95/46/CE (General Data Protection Regulation), including
in accordance with the provisions of the first additional provision of the Organic Law
CA 3/2018, of December 5 and in Royal Decree 3/2010, of January 8
river
In accordance with the first additional provision of Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Security measures in the field of the public sector
public, the security measures to be applied within the framework of the treatments
personal data will correspond to those of the Administration
of public origin and will be adjusted to the National Security Scheme.
INDRA SOLUCIONES TECNOLOGÍAS DE INFOR-
MACIÓN, SLU the express manifestation of submission to the regulations
national and European Union legislation on data protection
in accordance with articles 35.1d and 122.2 of the LCSP modified by ar-
Article 5 of Royal Decree Law 14/2019, of October 31, which establishes
adopt urgent measures for reasons of public security in matters of
digital administration, public sector contracting and telecommunications
tions.
6.3. Security
INDRA INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS, SLU
will implement the technical and organizational security measures
and will prepare the pertinent documentation, in accordance with the
corresponding risk analysis, as established in the Royal Decree
decree 3/2010, of January 8, which regulates the National Scheme
Security in the field of electronic administration.
7 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Without prejudice to the provisions of current legislation on the subject of
intellectual property, the successful bidder expressly accepts that the property
ity of all the products that are made by the successful bidder, including
including its employees and, where appropriate, any subcontracted company,
in performance of the Contract and, in particular, all property rights
intellectual and/or industrial property derived from them, corresponds
only to the contracting administration, exclusively and without further
limitations than those imposed by the legal system.
For the purposes set forth in the preceding paragraph, the successful bidder
undertakes to deliver to the SGAD all the technical documentation
ca, works and materials generated, in whose possession they will remain at the end
zation of the Contract without the contractor being able to keep it, or obtain
copy of it, nor use it or provide it to third parties without the express authorization
SGAD, which would give it, where appropriate, upon formal request of the
contractor with expression of purpose.”

They provide the following certificates issued in favor of INDRA:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/212

o ISO 27018 Certificate of Privacy in the Cloud: Information systems
that support the business processes and information assets needed
saries for the provision of IT outsourcing services Administration,
Support, Exploitation and Infrastructure), both in physical and virtual environments.
updated cloud), according to the declaration of applicability in force on the date of
issuance of the certificate.

o ISO 27001 Information Security Management System Certificate
tion: The information systems that support business processes and
information assets necessary for the provision of outsourcing services
IT sourcing Administration, Support, Exploitation and Infrastructure), so-
to physical environments such as virtualized cloud), according to the declaration of
applicability in force at the date of the audit.

o STI-0014/2009 Certificate of Technology Service Management System
Information Technologies: The SMS of IT outsourcing services Admi-
nistration, Support, Exploitation and Infrastructure), both in physical environments
as virtualized cloud), according to the catalog of services in force. Certifi-
cation of the Information Technology Service Management System
n.For the management of the RADAR COVID system, INDRA has contracted the
services of Amazon Web Services INC.

For the management of the RADAR COVID system, INDRA has contracted the services
of Amazon Web Services INC.
1.21.- Amazon Web Services INC:

- Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a set of services that offers
Amazon Web Services INC, including but not limited to server services
virtual cloud storage, scalable cloud storage, and database management.
relational data sets.
The AWS website reports that All AWS services are compliant
with the General Data Protection Regulation.
There is no specific contract signed between AWS and INDRA, the services
are contracted online, and it is a necessary condition to accept the conditions
tractual by clicking on the "contract the product" option. During the pro-
On-line contracting process the contracting party must choose the geographical area
where your data will reside. The contract includes, among others, the following:
you clauses:

“3.1 AWS Security. Without limitation as provided in section 10 to
its obligations contained in section 4.2, we will implement measures
adequate and reasonable compensation designed to help you secure your
content against any loss, access or accidental or unlawful disclosure.
date.
3.2 Data Protection. You will be able to specify the AWS Regions in
whose content will be preserved. You agree to keep
of your content in the AWS Regions of your choice and the transfer
of their content to them. We will not access or use
its content, except when this is necessary to maintain or provide
provide the services offered, or to comply with a provision
law or court order from a government authority. We don't
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

22/212

we will disclose your content to any government authority or third party
(b) as provided by section 3.3, we will move your content
from AWS Regions selected by you; except, in each case,
when necessary to comply with a legal provision or court order
official government authority. Unless it violates the law or a
court order from a governmental authority, we will give you notice of
any legal requirement or order as mentioned in this section
tion 3.2. We will only use your account information
accordance with the privacy notice, and you consent to such use. The avi-
Privacy policy does not apply to your content. “

- Applicable law:
“13.4 Applicable Law. This Agreement, as well as any controversy that
may arise by virtue of this, will be governed by the Applicable Laws, excluding
disclaiming any reference to the conflict of law rules. The Con-
United Nations Convention on International Sales Contracts
International Merchandise will not apply to this Contract.
13.5 Disputes. Any controversy or claim related to
any way with your use of the Offered Services, or any
product or service sold or distributed by AWS, will be resolved by the
Competent Courts, and you agree to the jurisdiction and venue ex-
jurisdiction of the Competent Courts, in accordance with the additional provisions
below.

(a) where the relevant AWS Contracting Party is Amazon
Web Services, Inc., the parties agree that the applicable parts
The provisions of this Section 13.5(a) are enforceable. controversies
shall be resolved through binding arbitration, in accordance with
provided in Section 13.5, instead of being resolved in court,
except that you may bring claims in a juvenile court
amount if they qualify for it. The Federal Arbitration Law and the legislation
The federal arbitration statute applies to this Agreement. There is not
judges or juries in arbitration, and review by a court of
an arbitral award is limited. However, an arbitrator may award
individual way the same compensations and measures that a tributary
nal (including precautionary or declaratory measures or compensation for
damages), and you must abide by the terms of this Agreement
like a court would. To initiate an arbitration proceeding, you
You must send a letter requesting arbitration and describing your re-
call our agent Corporation Service Company, 300 Des-
chutes Way SW, Suite 304, Tumwater, WA 98501. The arbitration shall be
made by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its
glas, which are available at www.adr.org or by calling 1-800-778-
7879. Payment for the presentation, administration and fees of the
arbitrator will abide by the AAA rules. we will refund
those charges for claims less than $10,000, unless the
arbitrator determines that the claims are frivolous. we will not claim
attorneys' fees and costs of arbitration unless the arbitrator determines
Make claims frivolous. You can choose that the ar-
bitrate is carried out by telephone, by means of written communications,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/212

to, or at a location agreed upon by the parties. You and us agree
We agree that any dispute resolution procedure is
be carried out individually and not through a class action,
consolidated or representative. If for any reason the claim is
be brought to trial in court rather than arbitration.
je, you and we waive any right to a fair trial.
rare. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you and we agree that you
or we may sue in court to have
prohibits infringement or any misuse of proprietary rights
intellectual.…"

- They state that the data from the RADAR COVID system is stored
on AWS servers located in the geographical area of Ireland. Apor-
as the document “AWS Cloud Architecture: Service Definition” elaborates
prepared by INDRA in which it is specified that the area in which the
AWS servers to serve the RADAR COVID app is located
In Ireland.
They provide a copy of a certificate issued by AWS at the request of INDRA in the
certifying that:

“The customer or partner can choose the AWS regions in which they are located.
will store its content and the type of storage. can replicate and
Back up content in more than one AWS Region. AWS does not transfer
not share or replicate your content outside of your chosen AWS Regions without
your consent unless required by law or the need to maintain the
AWS services. (for more information visit: https://aws.amazon.-
com/en/compliance/data-privacy-faq/)
Within the EU, the customer or partner can choose the following regions:
Currently operating locations: Frankfurt, Ireland, Milan, Paris, Stockholm.”
- Provide a certificate dated March 13, 2020 issued by BDO
Auditores, S.L.P., certifying that the information systems re-
indicated, all of them of HIGH category, and the services that are related
in the Annex to the certificate have been audited and found to be in accordance with
the requirements of Royal Decree 3/2010, of January 8, which regulates
the National Security Scheme in the field of Administration
electronically, as indicated in the corresponding Audit Report of the
National Security Scheme dated March 6, 2020. The annex
contains a list of 105 audited services, among which are
tran cloud services, hosting, database management, security,
backup, etc...

Regarding the information provided to users:

1.22.- They provide a copy of the different versions of the privacy policy of the
app that is also available at https://radarcovid.gob.es/.
The first version was published on August 7, 2020 together with the ver-
version 1.0 of the “Radar COVID” app (pilot version), in which res-
regarding data protection rights: “Given that the Radar application
COVID does not store personal data, the rights of
access, rectification, deletion, limitation, opposition and portability, as well as
not to be the subject of decisions based solely on automated processing
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

24/212

tion of your data. In any case, we are obliged to indicate that we assist you.
You have the right at all times to file a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection (www.aepd.es).
The privacy policy published in October 2020 informs of the following-
you aspects:

.- What is the application and how it works.
.- Who are the controllers:

The application is responsible for processing both the Ministry
of Health, as well as the Autonomous Communities. Likewise, the Secret
General Office of Digital Administration acts as the person in charge of
I lie."

.- What data are processed:

The data handled by the application does not allow direct identification.
straight from the user or their device, and are only those necessary for the
sole purpose of informing you that you have been exposed to a situation of
risk of contagion by COVID-19, as well as to facilitate the possible
adoption of preventive and assistance measures.
In no case will the movements of the USERS be tracked, ex-
thus excluding any form of geolocation.
The IP address of the USERS will not be stored or processed.
Positive confirmation codes will not be stored along with
other personal data of users.
As part of the COVID-19 risk contact alert system
19, the following data will be processed for users who have
tested positive for COVID-19 for the purposes specified below:
either
The temporary exposure keys with which the device
of the user has generated the random codes sent (identification
Bluetooth ephemeral devices), to the devices with which the user
has come into contact, up to a maximum of 14 previous days. It is-
These keys have no relation to the identity of the USER.
RIO, and are uploaded to the server so that they can be downloaded by
Radar COVID apps held by other users. With these
keys, through processing that takes place on the phone
in a decentralized manner, the USER can be warned about
about the risk of infection from having been in recent contact with
a person who has been diagnosed with COVID-19, without the
application can derive your identity or the place where the
Contact.
either
A 12-digit one-time confirmation code makes it easy to
litigated by the health authorities to the USER in the event of a test
positive for COVID-19. This code must be entered next
by the user in the application to allow voluntary charging
taria to the server of temporary exposure keys.
either

The user's consent, if applicable, for the referral of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/212

keys for temporary exposure to the European Interoperability Node
of contact tracing apps. All information is re-
shall be taken for strictly public interest purposes in the field of
public health, and in view of the health emergency situation decreed
day, in order to protect and safeguard an interest essential to life
of people, in the terms described in this privacy policy.
city, and according to articles 6.1.a), 9.2.a), 6.1.c), 6.1.d),
6.1.e), 9.2.c), 9.2.h) and 9.2.i)

- Applicable legislation:
o Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, regarding the pro-
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and the free circulation of these data and by which
repeals Directive 95/46/CE (General Regulation for the Protection of
Data).

o Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data

personal data and guarantee of digital rights.

o Organic Law 3/1986, of April 14, on Special Measures in Mathe-

Public Health ria.

o Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.
o Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health.
o Royal Decree Law 21/2020, of June 9, on urgent preventive measures
prevention, containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis
ria caused by COVID-19.

o Agreement of October 9, 2020, between the Ministry of Ecological Affairs
and Digital Transformation (Secretariat of State for Digitization
tion and Artificial Intelligence) and the Ministry of Health about the
“COVID Radar” application.

- How the data is obtained and where it comes from:

The positive confirmation code for COVID-19 provided by the
Public Health Service. This will allow the upload to the server of the keys
times of temporary exposure with which the user's device has generated
generated the random codes sent (ephemeral identifiers Blue-
tooth) to the devices with which the user has come into contact,
up to a maximum of 14 previous days. These keys are only added
ben the server with the explicit and unequivocal consent of the USUA-
RIO, having entered a positive confirmation code by CO-
VID-19.

- For what and why the data is used:

The collection, storage, modification, structuring and in its
case, deletion of the data generated, will constitute operations of
treatment carried out by the Holder, in order to guarantee
the correct functioning of the App, maintain the service relationship
service with the User, and for the management, administration, information
mation, provision and improvement of the service.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/212

The information and data collected through the Application will be treated
two for purposes strictly of public interest in the field of health
public, given the current health emergency situation as a consequence
incidence of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need for its control and
propagation, as well as to guarantee your vital interests or those of third parties.
zeros, in accordance with current data protection regulations.
For this purpose, we use your data to provide you with the “Radar
COVID” and so that you can make use of its functionalities according to
do with their terms of use. In accordance with the General Regulation
General Data Protection (RGPD) as well as any national legislation
that is applicable, the General Secretariat of Di-
gital will treat all the data generated during the use of the App for the
following purposes:

o Offer you information about contacts considered to be at risk

of exposure to COVID-19.

o Provide you with practical advice and recommendations for action
guidelines to follow as risk situations occur with regard to the
quarantine or self-quarantine.
The data will always and only be used anonymously for purposes
statistical and epidemiological.
This treatment will be carried out through the alert functionality
of infections that allows to identify risk situations for having been
been in close contact with users of the application who
are infected with COVID-19. In this way you are informed
It will tell you what steps should be taken afterwards.

- For how long the data is kept:

The temporary exhibition keys and the ephemeral identifiers of
Bluetooth are stored on the device for a period of 14 days,
after which they are removed.
Likewise, the temporary exhibition codes that have been communicated
given to the server by USERS diagnosed as positive by
COVID-19 will also be removed from the server after 14 days.
In any case, neither the temporary exposure codes nor the identifiers
Bluetooth ephemerals contain personal data and do not allow
identifier the mobile phones of the users.

- Who has access to the data

The data managed by the mobile application (daily exposure keys)
temporary identification and ephemeral Bluetooth identifiers) are stored uniquely
on the user's device for the purpose of being able to make calculations
and warn the USER about their risk of exposure to COVID-19.
Only in the case of reporting a positive diagnosis for COVID-19,
temporary exposure keys of the last 14 days generated in the
device, and under the explicit and unequivocal consent of the USUA-
RIO, are uploaded to the server for dissemination to all USERS
of this system.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/212

These keys have nothing to do with the identity of the devices.
mobile devices or with personal data of the USERS of the Application.
tion.

- What are your rights and how can you control your data:

Current regulations grant you a series of rights in relation to
the data and information we process about you. Specifically, the rights
rights of access, rectification, deletion, limitation and opposition.
You can check the scope and full details of them on the page
Website of the Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) here.
In general, you can exercise all these rights at any time.
any time and for free. You can contact the Responsible
Electronically, either the Ministry of Health or the Community
Autonomous unit of residence. In the case of the Ministry of Health,
you can do it through this form [by clicking on the form
links to the website of the Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare
(https://sede.mscbs.gob.es/canalesAcceso/oficinas.htm)], or presen-
mainly through the network of help desks in matters of re-
registrations using this request model [links to the registration form
request for the exercise of rights General Regulations for the Protection of
MSCBS Data]
   Likewise, you have the right at all times to present a
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency

- How we protect your data

Those Responsible, as well as the SGAD in charge of the
treatment, guarantee the security, secrecy and confidentiality of
your data, communications and personal information and have adopted the
more demanding and robust security measures and technical means to
prevent its loss, misuse or access without your authorization. Measures
implemented security measures correspond to those provided for in the
Annex II (Security measures) of Royal Decree 3/2010, of January 8,
ro, which regulates the National Security Scheme in the field
of the Electronic Administration.
Finally, we inform you that both the storage and the rest
of the non-personal data processing activities used is-
will always be located within the European Union.

- What you should especially take into account when using "Radar COVID”

You must take into account certain aspects related to the minimum age
use of the Application, the quality of the data you provide us
tions, as well as the uninstallation of the Application on your mobile device.
vile.
Minimum age of use: to be able to use "Radar COVID" you have
You must be over 18 years of age or have the authorization of your parents and/or
legal guardians. Therefore, by registering in the Application, you guarantee the
Holder that you are older than that age or, otherwise, that you account
with the aforementioned authorization.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/212

Quality of the data you provide us: the information you provide us
lites in the use of the services of the Application must always be
real, truthful and updated.
Uninstalling the Application: In general, there can be two situations:
tions in which the technical deactivation of the Application is carried out in
your device: 1) that you do it voluntarily, and 2) that from the Owner
to proceed to the technical deactivation of the Application on your device.
(e.g. in cases where we detect that you have breached the conditions
tions of use of the Application).

- Transfer of data to countries of the European Union:

Radar COVID participates in the application integration platform
of the European Union, so that the positive keys will be shared
with third EU countries and vice versa.
When the user's device downloads the positive keys for
analyze possible close contacts, it will also download the keys
positive from third countries adhering to the European project. This allows
will identify possible close contacts whether the user has been
visiting any of these countries as if you have been in close contact
bump with a visitor from these countries.
When the user enters a diagnostic confirmation code
positive for COVID-19, the consent of the free user will be requested,
specific, informed and unambiguous way to share your infected keys
with third countries through the European interoperability platform
pea facilitating the digital tracing of possible close contacts. the co
communication of your infected passwords to the network of European countries
two to this project is completely voluntary.
No data transfers will be made outside the European Union.

- Cookies policy

We only use technical cookies that allow the user to navigate
nization and use of the different options or services offered
cen in the Application such as, for example, accessing access parts
restricted or use security elements while browsing.

Regarding data storage and security:

1.23.- The daily passwords are stored in the mobile terminals that allow
the generation of ephemeral proximity identifiers (Rolling Proximity
Identifiers or RPI). In turn, the ephemeral identifiers received are stored.
two from nearby mobile phones. This information is stored a
maximum of 14 days.
1.24.- The server stores the passwords of “infected” people for post-
rior download by mobile applications. The data is stored
two in a relational database and for each reported positive, it is stored
will be born, the date of onset of symptoms, and the 14 daily cues taken from
the date of onset of symptoms. All this information resides on the device
mobile.
No data on the diagnostic tests performed is stored or managed.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

29/212

given to any person. Beacons are collected from users who have
been diagnosed with Covid-19 but there is no relationship between these beacons and da-
specific cough of any user.
The data is stored encrypted based on the encryption algorithms defined.
two for Aurora databases (AES-256).
They provide the structure of the database and description of tables and fields,
which shows that the database does not include identifying data of
natural persons (Phone, imei, MAC, IP, etc…).
1.25.- Regarding the technical and organizational measures implemented that
guarantee the security of personal data state:
The RADAR COVID application, as well as its entire infrastructure, is part of
information systems managed through outsourcing services
IT cing of the company INDRA, for Administration, Support, Exploitation and
Infrastructure in both physical and virtualized cloud environments. as i know
has stated in the point "Regarding the third parties involved" of
this report, provide certificates of compliance with ISO standards
27018, ISO 27001 and STI-0014/2009.
1.26.- They provide a copy of the security audit report of the pilot app of
dated July 15, 2020 prepared by Minsait, technology business unit
INDRA's guidance and consultancy, in which it is specified that no
tests on the Bluetooth protocol itself and the communications carried out
by the same, and that the versions analyzed, the positive report is made
directly, not involving Health in this process as it is a
test environment, so the results presented will not apply to the new
vo system if it differs from the one checked in this environment.
After analyzing the findings obtained through the different tests carried out
cut, global security is considered Low, due to the existence
of at least one vulnerability classified as High.
Considering high severity vulnerabilities, the report concludes that:



The app makes use of weak passwords.

And between medium and low severity vulnerabilities, the report includes:

 The communication channel is encrypted with protocols and algorithms.

Weak encryption mos.

1.27.- They provide the document prepared by the National Cryptologic Center
(CCN) which is the result obtained from the security audit of the application.
Radar COVID mobile tion and its connections, in order to assess its level
security and compliance. The analysis was aimed at verifying
of the level of compliance with the requirements and security measures contemplated
two in the CCN-STIC regulations. The static analysis app review
Android Radar COVID was carried out between August 20 and 21,
2020. The analysis of the connections carried out by the applications has been
subsequently performed in the production and pre-production environment. The revi-
connections in the pre-production environment has been carried out
between September 28 and October 2, 2020.
At the end of the analysis, the exposure status of the system is as follows-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

30/212

tea:

• 14 vulnerabilities found.
• 4 corrected.
• 10 are pending correction:
- 3 are of MEDIUM criticality.
- The rest LOW.

The MEDIUM criticality vulnerabilities pending to be corrected affect the
lack of means of protection against the possibility of third parties engineering
reverse to the application with the intention of obtaining sensitive or manifest data.
popularize its operation, evade restrictions and/or understand the operation
internal to it.
Along these same lines, deficiencies have also been detected in the protection
of the application's communications with its backend. Are you-
deficiencies have been found during the analysis in preproduction, recommending
taking place its verification in the final environment, that is, in the backend in pro-
duction.
The result of the inspection is considered PASS: the evaluation of the safety
ity within this area has not found any quantifiable deviation that
could prevent validation against the security configuration
Dear.
The report concludes that in the review of the Radar COVID mobile application, in
terms of ICT security, no deficiencies have been found with
severity CRITICAL to prevent proper operation in the field of
cybersecurity, excluding functional analyzes and behaviors
them, without prejudice to the actions carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Economics and Digital Transformation.
1.28.- They provide two documents called “Risk Analysis Report.
COVID 19 RADAR Service” prepared in compliance with the Royal Decree
951/2015, of October 23, modifying Royal Decree 3/2010, of October 8,
January, which regulates the National Security Scheme (ENS) in the
field of electronic administration, dated September 2020. The
First, it uses the ENS safeguards catalog, implemented by PILAR,
the second also incorporates the catalog of safeguards of the Regulation
General Data Protection (RGPD) implemented by PILAR. From the report
From the risk analysis that incorporates both safeguards, it can be deduced that
Next:

• The scope of the Risk Analysis includes the infrastructure that is
detailed in the document “Bluetooth App against Covid-19
v5.pdf” and that is necessary to provide the Covid Radar Service of the Sec-
Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence (app contact tra-
cing, backend deployed in the AWS cloud, and communications networks).
• Risk Analysis Methodology: Identification of the Development Phase
Implementation of the Adaptation Plan to the ENS and description of the tasks of the
MAGERIT methodology, used to carry out the activities and tasks of the
Risk system and description of the work performed:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/212

- Asset Categorization
- Threat Categorization
- Categorization of Safeguards
- Estimation of the Risk State

• The valuation has been carried out in accordance with the information available
on the RADAR COVID19 Information System in relation to the Di-
Mentions of Security: Authenticity, Confidentiality, Integrity, Dis-
Availability and Auditability or Traceability.
The assessment of the Covid Radar Service, due to the type of data that
treats and what is indicated in the CCN-STIC 803 Guide, the valuation in each one
of the security dimensions (Authenticity, Confidentiality, Integrity
Availability and Traceability) should be at least MEDIUM, however
However, due to the political and socioeconomic situation in which we find ourselves,
we contract caused by the Covid 19 pandemic and the impact that it would have
a security breach of the information it deals with, the Radar Service Co-
vine has been evaluated with a HIGH category.
• The list of threats that has been considered for the Risk Analysis.
gos and that constitutes the catalog of threats implemented in a
standard in the PILAR tool are: Natural disasters, of in-
industrial, errors, unintentional failures and intentional attacks.
• The assets considered are: Covid Radar Service, Mobile Phone, Re-
from Communications, App Radar Covid, Administrators / Operators,
Developers, Development and Maintenance of the App, Citizens, So-
ports, AWS Equipment, AWS Installations, Downloads Repository (APPLE
STORE), Cloud Service, Downloads Repository (ANDROID STORE).
• The degree of maturity of each one of the articles of the
GDPR that must be taken into consideration.
• The value of the Potential Risk obtained from the PILAR tool is 6.3
out of 10 (Very critical risk). Assets that present a level of risk
critical are: Communications networks, RADAR COVID app, support, installation
AWS connections and AWS equipment.

- The value of the Residual Risk (after applying the safeguards) ob-
score of the PILAR tool is 2.6 out of 10 (measured risk).
it gave). once the safeguards have been taken into account
planted, the risk level of the assets is considerably reduced.
Possibly, there are 12 assets with negligible risk, 1 with
low and 1 with medium risk.
- The value of the Objective Risk (Objective to be achieved after the
proposed safeguards) obtained from the tool
PILAR lie is 1.8 out of 10 (low risk).

For the COVID19 RADAR Service, it has been proposed to carry out the actions
necessary to minimize the residual risk so that there is no
Some asset with MEDIUM level risk. For this they have been selected
those risks that are above the value 2 and, above them,
Safeguards that were below the threshold have been identified.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

32/212

value recommended by PILAR for the National Security Scheme
to raise them to the recommended value.
It is recommended to address a set of actions to improve the measures
currently existing security measures, in order to adjust the level of
Covid19 Radar Service risk at a LOW level. These actions have been
focused on security measures that can minimize the threats
that provide a MEDIUM level of risk in this Risk Analysis.
gosh. These actions will allow reaching the level of Objective Risk pro-
since they would increase the degree of maturity of the security measures
Authority Electronic Signature and Authentication Mechanisms. The actions pro-
put in this case are:

- Use qualified certificates for the digital signature used
in the positive verification service.
- Although access to the AWS console is done through AWS
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA), and therefore complies with the measure
If you want to use a second authentication factor, it is recommended
verify that the hardware cryptographic elements use algorithms
mos and parameters accredited by the CCN. In addition, it is recommended
review the access control mechanism to the Pos-Data Base
tgreSQL to conclude that it meets the high-level requirements.

1.29.- They provide the document “Impact Assessment Report on the
Data Protection of the RADAR COVID treatment” dated September
2020, whose content includes the following most relevant aspects:

• The objective of the document is to carry out the Impact Assessment related to
the Data Protection (EIPD) of the treatment carried out by the
“Radar COVID” application (hereinafter “the Application”), as required
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament (RGPD) when
the treatment entails a high risk for the rights and freedoms of the
Physical persons.
• The preparation of the report follows the guidelines established by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter “AEPD”) in the “Guide
Practice for Data Protection Impact Assessments
subject to the GDPR”.
• Regarding the need to carry out an Impact Assessment related to
Data Protection in the treatment evaluated, the report indicates that
there are factors that contribute to generating a high level of risk,
an EIPD must be carried out in order to determine a management scenario
appropriate risk assessment.
• Regarding those responsible, co-responsible and in charge of the treatment-
The report contains the following:

The data controller is the General Directorate of Public Health,
dependent on the Ministry of Health.
The person in charge of treatment is the General Secretariat of Administration
Digital, dependent on the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transformation.
mation Digital, which has developed the Application.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/212

• Regarding the Personal Data object of the treatment:
- The application generates proximity data (temporary exposure keys)
with which the user's device has generated the random codes.
rios or Rolling Proximity Identifier - RPI). These data are communicated
will inform the health authorities only when it has been confirmed
mented that a user in question is infected with COVID-19 and on condition
tion that the person chooses to do so, that is, in a way
volunteer.

- Data through which the user is previously warned of a contact
to risk These data allow estimating how many users are warned.
due to the application of a potential risk of contagion, without being able to scratch
reveal your identity, and allows the National Health Service to prepare
initiatives and resources needed to serve users who
have received the notification.

- The day the user developed symptoms consistent with COVID-19.
- Code provided by the health authorities to allow the
user activate a warning alert. This 12-digit number will be
provided by the health authorities to the users of the application.
tion using Quick Response code (QR). Users may, voluntarily
regularly, enter said code in the Application to confirm the
positive diagnosis and trigger the notification procedure to
your close contacts. This code is a diagnostic confirmation.
co positive of a user. There is verification of said code to avoid
for any user to submit false evidence.

- The IP address that the device uses to connect to the Internet.

These data do not allow the direct identification of the user or his device.
positive, with studies on the robustness of encryption protocols
tography and anonymization, although there is a possibility that they may
break down and associate the identifiers with phone numbers and per-
sonas, applying sufficient time and computing capacity, although this
is considered highly unlikely. On the other hand, it must be taken into
account that the processing of information not only affects the user of
the application, but also that of all third parties with whom you have been
do in contact

• Regarding the purpose of the treatment:
- The main purpose of the App is to inform people who have
been in close proximity to someone who happens to be a confirmed carrier of the
virus, in order to break the chains of transmission as soon as possible. Of
In this way, the Application allows identifying the people who have
been in contact with someone infected with COVID-19 and tell them
of the measures that should be adopted later, such as submitting to an auto
quarantine or to the corresponding tests.

- For this, the App maintains the contacts of the people who use the app.
Application and who may have been exposed to infection of the
COVID-19.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

- When a person tests positive for COVID-19 and decides to
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/212

freely share this data, the App alerts those other people who
could have been infected and with whom you have had contact
last 14 days. To do this, this person must share a number of
12 figures that will be provided by the health authorities. The mobile
performs a check if the random IDs match any
that has been marked as positive.

- The day on which the user developed compatible symptoms is determined
with COVID-19 and date of contact with infected people. The data
They may also be processed for scientific research purposes or
statistics. In this case, the data will be completely anonymised.
two.

• A description of the elements involved in each one is made.
of the phases of the life cycle of the treatment data (activity, act-
res and systems).
• A description of the intervening technologies is made.
• Regarding legality and regulations:

Pursuant to Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Con-
council, of July 12, 2002, regarding the processing of personal data
and the protection of privacy in the communications sector
electronic information (article 5), the storage of information in the
user's device or obtaining access to information and to
stored is only allowed if: i) the user has given his consent
storage, or ii) the storage or access is strictly necessary.
rios for the service of the information society, in this case the
Application, which the user has expressly requested (that is,
through installation and activation). In the case of the object Application
of evaluation, requirement ii) is not met, since the loading of data from
Proximity for contact tracing and alerting is not required for the
operation of the Application itself, therefore, it is necessary to obtain
have the free, specific, explicit and informed consent, through
clear affirmative user action.
As a legal basis for lawful processing of personal data, the
RGPD explicitly recognizes the two mentioned: mission carried out in-
public interest (art. 6.1.e) or vital interests of the interested party or other
physical ones (art. 6.1.d).
They indicate that, for the treatment of health data, it is not enough that
there is a legal basis of art. 6 GDPR, but in accordance with art.
9.1 and 9.2 RGPD there is a circumstance that lifts the prohibition of
treatment of said special category of data (among them, data of
Health). THE AEPD understands that these circumstances can be found,
in this case, in several of the epigraphs of art. 9.2 GDPR.

• Regarding the analysis of the need, proportionality of the treatment:
- Principle of purpose limitation: The main purpose of the App is
inform people who have been in close proximity to someone who
turns out to be a confirmed carrier of the virus, in order to break the chains
transmission lines as soon as possible. In this way, the Application per-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

35/212

It allows identifying people who have been in contact with someone
infected by COVID-19 and inform them of the measures that are appropriate
adopt later, such as self-quarantining or being tested
corresponding diagnoses.

- Principle of data minimization: they indicate that they are collected exclusively-
the personal data required for the purposes indicated.
falls.

- Principle of limitation of the term of conservation: The terms are based
on the medical importance and on realistic timeframes for administrative measures.
which, if applicable, should be taken.
The data generated for contact tracing and alerting: The data
of proximity will be deleted as soon as they are no longer necessary
to alert people and at the latest after a period of one month
(incubation period plus margin).
The data is stored on the user's device, and only those
that have been communicated by users and that are necessary
to fulfill the purpose they are uploaded to the central validation server
of positives available to the health authorities when
chosen such an option (i.e. only the data would be uploaded to the server
of "close contacts" of a person who had tested positive for
COVID-19 infection).
In any case, personal data should only be kept during the
COVID-19 crisis. Then, as a general rule, all data
personal data should be deleted or anonymised.

• Risk reduction measures:
- The application does not collect information that is not related to the object
specific or not necessary — for example, marital status, identifiers
communications, team directory items, messages, re-
call logs, location data, device identifiers,
etc.
- The data disseminated by the applications only includes some identifiers.
unique and pseudonymous, application-generated and user-specific passwords.
is. These identifiers are renewed periodically, with a frequency
compatible with the purpose of containing the spread of the virus and sufficient
te to limit the risk of identification and physical tracking of people.
- Although the model is decentralized, a ser-
central server, of the health authority, where to register the codes of the
people diagnosed with COVID-19. This con-tracing server
tacts should be limited to collecting the history of contacts or those identified
pseudonyms of a user who has been diagnosed as infected
as a result of an adequate evaluation carried out by the authorities
sanitary and a voluntary action of the user.
- Advanced cryptographic techniques will be applied to guarantee security.
ity of the data stored in the servers and applications and the inter-
changes between the applications and the remote server. It will also proceed
to mutual authentication between the application and the server.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/212

- Notification of users infected with SARS-CoV-2 in the application-
tion shall be subject to appropriate authorization by means of a code from a
only use linked to a pseudonymous identity of the infected person and linked
side with a screening lab or health care professional.
healthcare. If confirmation cannot be obtained safely,
No data processing will take place that presupposes the validity of the
user status.
- The data controller, in collaboration with the authorities, has
to provide clear and explicit information about the link that allows
upload the official national contact tracing app, in order to
mitigate the risk of third-party applications being used.-
under
of the principles of integrity and confidentiality, taking into account that
health data deserve higher protection, measures will be applied
appropriate up-to-date technical and organizational measures that ga-
guarantee a sufficient level of security. Such measures consist of
pseudonymization, encryption and non-disclosure agreements
as well as a strict distribution of access roles and status.
establishment of restrictions and access logs. Also, you have to
take into account national provisions that may establish requirements
specific technical specifications or other guarantees, such as the observance of the
professional secrecy rules.
• Risk assessment and safeguards

The risk assessment carried out for the “Radar COVID” service is
It is included in the “Covid Radar Service Risk Analysis”,
generated with the "PILAR" tool through which it has been carried out
carried out the evaluation of risks and safeguards for the treatment "Radar
COVID” and all the infrastructure that has been implemented for this service.
vice.

• Action plan:

For the COVID Radar Service, it is proposed in the AARR Report,
Take a series of necessary actions to minimize the residual risk
so that there is no asset with MEDIUM level risk. for
For this reason, those risks that are above the
value {2} and, on them, the safeguards that
were below the value recommended by PILAR for the
National Security Scheme to raise them to the recommended value.

• Conclusions collected in the EIPD report:

A series of actions and recommendations have been proposed in the Report
me of AARR whose implementation would mean that none of the assets
would reach a medium risk, but all could be classified as risk
low and even many of them of negligible risk.

Regarding interoperability:

1.30.- On June 16, 2020, it is adopted by consensus of the working group
of the eHealth Network the document “eHealth Network Guidelines for
EU Member States and the European Commission on specifications of
interoperability for cross-border transmission chains between applications
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

37/212

are approved. Detailed elements of interoperability between solutions
based on COVID + keys”, in which a definitive architecture is proposed
to implement the Federation Gateway service. The Federation Ga service
teway, accepts diagnostic keys from all countries, stores them temporarily
and provides them for download in all countries. Ade-
more, all backends can be informed immediately if there are new ones
data available, so that transmission delays are kept to a minimum.
cheers
On July 16, 2020, the Execution Decision was published in the DOUE
(EU) 2020/1023 of the Commission of July 15, 2020 that modifies the Decision
Execution Order (EU) 2019/1765 regarding the cross-border exchange
data exchange between national mobile contact tracing applications
cough and warning to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. This Decision is-
lays down provisions on the role of participating Member States and
of the Commission in relation to the operation of the federative gateway
for cross-border interoperability of national mobile applications
contact tracing and warning.
On September 2, 2020, it is adopted by consensus of the working group
of eHealth Network the document “European Certificate of Interoperability.
Governance. Security architecture for monitoring and warning
of contacts applications” that establishes that the safe and trustful exchange
ble of diagnostic keys between European countries is carried out by the Euro-
pean Federation Gateway Service (EFGS) that distributes data between
member states. This exchange of diagnostic keys is secured
by cryptography transparent signatures for all countries participating in the
system. Digital signatures can be used to achieve integrity and authentication.
tenticity of the data. A well-defined confidence model is necessary
to link the public key of an entity to its identity in order to allow
other participants to verify the origin of the data or the identity of the participant.
speaker. In the context of the EFGS this means that the public keys of
European Member States also since the public key of the EFGS
must be linked to their identities to establish trust between
participants. In this way, Member States can verify the integrity
ity and authenticity of the signed diagnostic keys provided by the
EFGS. This document establishes the trust and security services that
will be established in the EFGS.
1.31.- On October 15, 2020, the SGAD contributes to the damage inspection
a copy of the Declaration and letter of intent on the connection of SPAIN
with the EFGS sent by the Secretary General of Digital Administration to the
European Commission, as well as a copy of the mandatory application form for
intention to participate in the EFGS and annexes (survey and check list).
They state that the entry into service of interoperability with Radar CO-
VID is anticipated for October 30, 2020.

2.- On December 16, 2020, information was requested from the General Secretariat
Directorate of Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the National Health System
(SGSDII), regarding the instructions given to the person in charge of the treatment, and in
particular in relation to the protection of data from the design and by default of
the "RADAR COVID" app and copies, where appropriate, of the reports prepared by the De-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

38/212

Legacy of Data Protection, and in particular those related to the supervision of
treatments and the need to prepare an impact assessment related to
data protection, as well as the measures carried out by the SGSDII in
based on points 3 of the second and third clauses of the Agreement, taking into account
dated January 28, 2021, a response brief in which they report, among
others, from the following:

The Ministry of Health exercises the role of data controller through
of the General Secretariat of Digital Health, Innovation and Information of the SNS
(SGSDII), and the General Secretariat of Digital Administration (hereinafter,
SGAD), dependent on the Secretary of State for Digitization and Intelligence
Artificial (hereinafter, SEDIA), of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trans-
Digital Training, exercises the role of data processor from the signing of the
Agreement signed between both ministries between the Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Digital Transformation and the Ministry of Health about the application
tion "RADAR COVID", published in the BOE of 10/15/2020.
They report on the requests for reports and statistics made by
from the SGSDII to the SGAD since August 2020 and the follow-up carried out.
Regarding the evaluation of the impact of the treatments carried out by the Ra-
give COVID, they report that on December 15, 2020 a review of the
EIPD for EFGS, suggesting the performance of a penetration test and/or a
wider external cybersecurity audit after revision of the document of
risk analysis and impact analysis submitted by the person in charge of processing
I lie.

Regarding the GOOGLE app:
3.- The following checks have been carried out on a mobile device with
Android version 10.0 operating theme:

3.1.- It has been verified that the operating system has installed a new service
cio called "Notifications of exposure to COVID 19" version
17203704005. After accessing this service, the following is verified:
-

Reports the exposure checks that have been carried out in the
last 14 days (day and time).

-
-

- It has an option that allows you to eliminate random identifiers.
-

Informs that the date, duration and intensity of the event are shared with the app.
the signal associated with the exposure.
It reports on how it works and how to use the exhibition system.
Reports that the exposure system does not use, save or share the location
cation of the device and that it is necessary to activate the location of the device
because exposure notification technology uses search
of Bluetooth devices to know which ones are nearby since in all
phones running Android 6.0 and above, in order to use that
Bluetooth search, location settings must be activated
of the device for all applications, not just those that use the
exposure notification system.

3.2.- Version 1.0 of the “Radar COVID” app (pilot version) was uploaded to the re-
Google Play repository on August 7, 2020, subsequently they have been published
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

39/212

successive updates (from 1.0.1 to 1.0.7) until the version
1.1 (as of the date of the checks carried out by the data inspection)
which was updated on October 29, 2020, in which the following have been carried out:
following checks:

- In the GOOGLE application repository it is stated that the app to date
of the report has been downloaded by more than a million users and includes
a link to the privacy policy.
- Reports the following permissions requested by the App:

either
either
either
either
either
either
either

Run service in the foreground
Access the entire network
See network connections
Request permission to ignore battery optimizations.
Prevent the phone from going to sleep
Pair with bluetooth devices
Run at startup.

After installing the application, you access it, verifying the following:
 - The app does not require registration as a user, nor does it request character data
staff. The only information requested is the language.
 - Reports the functionalities of the application, which works without revealing
the identity of the user or the device. Does not collect name, phone or
geolocation and that you can stop using it at any time.
 - Includes a link to the privacy policy, having to accept it to con-
continue Include a link to the terms of use.
 - Request permission to activate COVID exposure by activating
bluetooth and to ignore battery optimization and keep running.
running in the background of the app.
 - Once the installation is finished, a window with information is displayed
on risk contacts had and with two buttons, one to activate and
deactivate the app and another to communicate a positive COVID-19.
 - By pressing the button to communicate a positive, the app requests the date of
onset of symptoms or date of sample collection or, if unknown,
ce leave it blank and a 12-digit code and informs that the informa-
tion will always be treated anonymously.
  If the GPS antenna of the terminal (geolocation) is deactivated, the system
operative launches the following notification: “inactive exposure notification”
goes. To use this function activate the location”

Regarding the APPLE App
4.- The following checks have been made on an iPhone SE device,
with software version iOS 13.6.1.:

- In the previous update, iOS 13.5.1 and due to the expansion of the
COVID-19, APIs have been incorporated aimed at trying to stop the spread
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

40/212

gation that taking advantage of the functionalities of the phone at connection level
bluetooth tivity.
- In the version history there are versions from 1.0 to
1.08.
- The "RADAR COVID" app has been installed on the device.
vo, performing the following checks:
o The app does not require user registration, nor does it request character data.

be personal.

o Informs that the application works without revealing the identity of the user.

river, and that at any time you can stop using it.

o Includes a link to the privacy policy, having to accept it to

continue. Include a link to the terms of use.

o Request permission to activate exposure to COVID by activating

Bluetooth connection and to receive notifications.

o Once the installation is complete, a window with two buttons is displayed.
tions, one to activate and deactivate the app and another to communicate a possi-
tive COVID-19.

o By pressing the button to communicate a positive, the app requests the date of
onset of symptoms or date of sample collection or, if unknown,
noce leave it blank and a 12-digit code and informs that the in-
training will always be treated anonymously.

o At no time is activation of the location service requested.

Regarding the DP-3T protocol on which RADAR COVID 19 is based:
5.- DP-3T is a collaboration of researchers from all over Europe who joined forces
strengths to create an open technical solution to proximity tracking for epide-
mia COVID-19 respecting personal privacy. They have designed and developed
we developed proximity tracking systems with the aim of preserving privacy
dad.
DP-3T has made public technical documentation of this protocol in the repository
https://github.com/DP-3T/documents, which is also provided by the inspector
nate as the basis of the developments of the RADAR COVID 19 system, and of the analysis
of this, the following relevant points stand out:

- The document “Decentralized Privacy-Preserving. Proximity Tracing .Overview
of Data Protection and Security” shows that in this system,
centralized there are five main actors relevant to data protection:
ts: users, health authorities, a back-end server, research projects
epidemiological investigation and providers of mobile telephony operating systems.
vile (in this case, Apple and Google). Apple and Google only provide a service
push notification service, the same as for any application and are con-
aware that the application has been installed, acting as processors,
but they cannot see any content or data. The same document states
 since Apple and Google provide the operating system
manifest that "
 
 
 
running on mobile devices, one has to trust them, since
could potentially become aware of information related to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/212

proximity tracking system (who is infected, who infected whom,
social graphs, etc.)”.
In addition, the document states that "the system is designed in such a way
that no entity beyond a user's device processes or stores
personally identifiable data about the user. As a whole, the system
meets treatment goals that would normally require transmission
sion of personal data. We believe that, within the framework of the normal functioning
wrong, none of the data used to achieve proximity tracking should be
be characterized as personal data, since no actor who owns the data
has the ability to re-identify them with reasonably sustainable means.
capable of being used."
As for the identifiers, mobile phones with the security application
installed proximity tracking emit ephemeral bluetooth identifiers
(EfIDs) via Bluetooth Low Energy. These ephemeral identifiers
are pseudo-randomly generated by the phone, derived from the key se-
crete SK of the phone itself.
- The document “Best Practices Operational Security for Proximity Tracing” des-
Create security mechanisms that can be added to security applications.
proximity tracking to ensure that security properties and
privacy provided by the protocols are not undermined by other
System Components. The following can be deduced from this document:
“There are two types of requests to the server: non-sensitive requests
and confidential. In decentralized proximity tracking systems
two, all users regularly retrieve new diagnostic keys
and potentially new app configurations. These requests do not
they are sensitive. All users make these requests, and therefore
their records may not reveal any confidential information about
users, beyond the fact that these users use an application
proximity tracking. Requests made by users related to
related to the loading of diagnostic keys by users positi-
vos COVID-19 and requests to confirm the notification status of the
exposed users are sensitive. These requests should be treated with
watch out. “
The document highlights communications as a vulnerable point in the system.
that are established between devices and servers, which include
metadata.
The document proposes that applications program false actions. East
protection mechanism works by (1) producing false actions
actions that are indistinguishable from real actions and (2) the distribution of these
false actions over time. As a result, any observed action
vada could, with a reasonable probability, be a false action.
The document “Privacy and Security Risk Evaluation of Digital Proximity Tracing
Systems”, also in reference to the traffic of data on infected patients
stresses that “Any proximity tracking system in which people
infected people upload data directly from your phone to a central server.
unmeasured, reveals to a potential network observer that a patient su-
uploaded data to the central server.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/212

Most proposals for proximity tracking systems
assume that shortly after an application user receives a result,
positive state of the test, it will load the necessary information to trigger
Send contact tracing from your personal device to a server
central. This allows a spy connected to the network, for example, a curious
internet service provider, wifi provider, would you know that this is
an infected user. It also allows the central server to obtain a pseudo-
teething for the infected person.
A proxy does not help mitigate this attack. Users can upload regular-
mind dummy packets, for example, empty messages of the same size as
a real report, to the server. The server will simply ignore these packets
fictitious. Since users use an encrypted connection to the server,
network observers cannot distinguish these dummy packets from the
actual loads, thus hiding their infection status even from observers.
res of the network.”

This vulnerability was corrected in the Radar COVID app and uploaded to the Gi-
thub on October 8, for the following versions of the application: Android,
version 1.0.7, Apple, version 1.0.8
Regarding the Apple and Google APIs:
6.- Technical documentation of this interface has been made public on different websites
of Apple and Google, which has also been provided by the inspected as
basis of the developments of the RADAR COVID 19 system, and its analysis,
The following relevant points stand out:

- The “Exposure Notification Bluetooth Specification” document provides the
Detailed technical specification for a new Bluetooth protocol that preserves the
privacy to support exposure notification. Highlight as a requirement is-
essential in the design of this specification to maintain the privacy of users.
rivers by the following means:

either

either

either

either

either

The Exposure Notification Bluetooth specification does not use the
location for proximity detection. Use strictly beacon-
Bluetooth ment for proximity detection.

A user's proximity identifier changes on average every
15 minutes and you need the temporary exposure key to map-
tion with a contact. This behavior reduces the risk of loss
gives privacy by the dissemination of identifiers.

Proximity identifiers obtained from other devices are
processed exclusively on the device.

Users decide whether to contribute to the exposure notification.

If diagnosed with COVID-19, users must provide their
consent to share diagnostic keys with the server.
Users have transparency in their participation in the notification
of exposition.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/212

- The document “Exposure Notification Cryptography Specification” provides the
Detailed technical specification for the encryption of the new Bluetooth protocol. It is-
specifies the following privacy considerations:

either

either

either

either

The programming of keys is fixed and defined by the components of the
operating system, which prevents applications from including information
static or predictable information that could be used for monitoring.

A temporary exposure key is required to correlate between
the changing proximity identifiers of a user. This reduces
increases the risk of loss of privacy due to the dissemination of the identified
beef.

Without the publication of temporary exhibition keys, it is compu-
infeasible for an attacker to find a match/co-
response in a proximity identifier. This avoids a wide
range of replay and spoofing attacks.

When reporting diagnostic keys, the correlation of the identified
Proximity resers by others is limited to 24-hour periods due to the
use of temporary exposure keys that change daily. The
server should not keep metadata of uploading users
diagnostic keys after including those keys in the added list.
gada of diagnostic keys per day.

7.- Other relevant considerations:
Report of the School of Computer Science & Statistics, Trinity College.

7.1.- In July 2020 the university center “School of Computer Science &
Statistics, Trinity College. Dublin” published a report analyzing
the actual data transmitted to the back-end servers by the applications of
contact tracing implemented in Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Den-
brand, Spain, Poland, Latvia and Ireland, as well as the data transmitted by
the APIs of GOOGLE and APPLE, in order to evaluate the privacy of the
users.
Concludes the Trinity College report that analyzed the data transmitted to
back-end servers by implemented contact tracing applications
minted in said countries in order to evaluate the privacy of users
They consist of two independent components: a "client" application managed
reported by the national public health authority and the notification service of
Google/Apple exposure, which on Android devices is managed
by Google and is part of Google Play Services. The client applications
the health authority generally behave well from the point of view
of privacy. However, the Google Play Services component of this
These applications is worrying from a privacy point of view.
Google Play Services contacts the appropriate Google servers.
approximately every 20 minutes, potentially allowing monitoring
of the location with precise products through the IP address. Also,
Google Play services also share the phone's IMEI, the number
hardware serial number, SIM serial number, mobile phone number,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/212

the user's phone number and email address with Google, along with
Detailed data on applications running on the phone. Is
data collection is enabled simply by enabling the services of
Google Play, even when all other Google Play services and settings
Google are disabled.
On the occasion of this report, the Irish Control Authority has questioned
GOOGLE the issue of personal data processing in the context
of the use of the API, whose response has been shared with all the authorities
des through IMI (Informal Consultation 141776).
In the response given, Google alleges the following:

“The metrics and telemetry covered in this report describe a
industry practice for mobile operating systems (not just in
Android) that helps ensure devices stay up to date.
updated, keep people and systems safe from hacks.
ques and enable reliable operation of the device ecosystem
androids. As explained later, there is no connection between the
general remarks about Android telemetry in the report and
the use of exposure notification applications. although always
We are open to working with the research community to improve
general standards for Android, we are disappointed with the way
that researchers have tried to confuse the general telemetry of
Android with the exposure notifications APIs.
The Android Device Configuration Service periodically sends-
Mind data from Android devices to Google. These data help
Google to ensure that the device is up to date and working as
best possible". In order to ensure the continuous operation of
Android devices, this system processes device identifiers
devices and accounts, device attributes, software versions, and
security firmware, network connectivity, and performance data. The
The purposes of this processing include helping to ensure that the
device receives software updates and security patches,
make applications and services work consistently across
a wide variety of Android devices with different specifications
tions and software, protect the Android device and system against
fraud, abuse and other harmful behavior, maintain metrics
Added on Android devices.
There is no connection between the general observations on telemetry
Android and Android Configuration Service report
research and use of exposure notification applications, ex-
I accept the use of an Android device for any purpose means
necessarily certain information is necessary to operate the device.
vo. In accordance with our privacy commitments for APIs
exposure notification, Apple and Google do not receive information
about the end user, location data or information about any
any other device that the user has been near.
Apart from the Android device configuration service, the data
very limited and anonymous diagnostic data are collected from the APIs of non-
exposure certifications and this has been made transparent. For example,
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

45/212

Google has published the specifications on the site for develop-
Android res. For its part, Google does this in order to verify
that the basic functionality (i.e., the notification mechanism of
exposure) is working and to provide a warning signal
early to investigate specific device models in case
of any problem.
By design, no user-identifying information is recorded.
user of the exposure notification system nor in its functioning
or the limited diagnostic data collected from it. Men-
unidentified log messages, received in aggregate batches, which
they only indicate information about the operation of the system, such as whether the
BLE functionality works. This registration system also interrupts
eg explicitly any links between the log messages of the
same device. Additionally, identifiers such as IP addresses
required to deliver the log message are not logged in the
disk of this log pipe.
Until now, diagnostic information has helped identify
early problems in exposure notification implementations
sation all over the world. For example, it helped identify models of
Devices that did not support the initial version of email notifications
exhibition and to develop works to guarantee a wide availability
ity. Without this information, we would not have been able to have an answer
quickly and forcefully to this urgent global pandemic.”

7.2.- On September 9, 2020, the Secretary of State for Digitization
and Artificial Intelligence published the source code of the App in the repository Gi-
thub.com, in which it was possible to observe that in lines 198-199 there appears a
comment recommending the use of the Firebase development library for
Google Analytics. In response to the requirement of the Data Inspection to
In this regard, the representative of the General Secretariat of Di-
gital provides a report that highlights the following:

“Google's Firebase software libraries were used in the
pilot phase as a result of the ANR incident report (application
tion is not responding) on mobile devices, about incidents not re-
ported or bugs that are not visible to the user, but can
affect the proper functioning of the application.
…
This functionality has only been used in the pilot phase, not being in
use in the production versions currently as can be seen in
the analysis of the source code published in the github repository.”

7.3.- On September 30, 2020, an email entered the AEPD
email signed by 11 teachers from different universities communicating
a vulnerability of the RADAR COVID app (...). The mail includes a report
technical and legal assessment.
According to said report, only COVID positive users upload the keys
TEK keys with the result of a test to the radar server-covid-backenddp3t-
server. Therefore, every time a key upload is observed from a
phone to this server, it can be inferred that the owner of the phone is CO-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

46/212

VID-positive. The encryption between the application and the server does not help to find
open that information: even if the endpoint and content of the upload are not
observable, the length of the messages will reveal an upload of the key TEK
to the server. Communication can be observed by various entities. By
example, the telecommunications provider (if the connection is made through
of GSM); the Internet service provider if the connection is made through
from Internet; or anyone with access to the same network (WiFi or Ethernet)
than the user. In the case of the Radar COVID app, in which uploads are
they do using the Cloudfront endpoint that is used for downloading
TEKs, Amazon also has the ability to look at the addresses
IP addresses of Radar COVID users and associate them with the fact that those
users report a positive COVID test. But apart from the fact
communicate the IP address, taking into account that, as shown in the information
technical me, only COVID positive users upload the keys to the server
radar-covid-backend-dp3t-server, that IP is associated with the cla-
TEK times uploaded, which always correspond to the communication of a possible test.
COVID-positive. In this way, the operation of the app allows linking
unequivocally an IP with the fact that its holder is uploading a
positive COVID test.
On October 2, 2020, the data inspection requests information from the
regarding SEDIA and dated October 7 and 27, 2020 they have entry
two separate written responses in which the following is made clear:

This vulnerability was already known to the Radar development team.
give COVID, since it appeared in at least one technical document published
Done in April 2020 by the DP-3T team: Privacy and Security Risk Eva-
location of Digital Proximity Tracing Systems.
However, the development team did not consider it necessary to solve
this problem in the first versions of Radar COVID since,
To exploit this vulnerability, a remote scene must be assumed.
where the telecommunications operator is interested in obtaining
obtain this clinical information from their clients by studying the traffic of damage
cough generated by Radar COVID apps.
Number of identifiers that have been affected by the vulnerability
dad:
The Radar COVID app was launched nationally on 19th
August 2020.
The vulnerability was corrected in the upload corresponding to October 8.
tube, for the following versions of the application: Android, version
1.0.7, Apple, version 1.0.8.
As of October 8, a total of 3,059 codes had been declared
at the national level.
Actions taken for its resolution:
The code of the Radar COVID system was published openly on 9
September 2020, for general knowledge, which has allowed
that numerous experts in development, privacy, data protection
and cybersecurity could have access to it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/212

As a result of this publication and its subsequent analysis, a series of experts
in privacy they contacted the support team of Ra-
give COVID in mid-September to report on the vulnerability
ity previously described. This vulnerability has been documented
by the DP-3T team as NR-2 (traffic analysis reveals data about in-
fected patients) in their report “Privacy and Security Risk Evaluation of
Digital Proximity Tracing Systems”.
The solution to the problem, already documented in the mentioned document,
is that all Radar COVID applications generate traffic
random with the same pattern of interaction with the server (size of
packets, send/response flow, and processing times) that the
positive statements. In this way, the tra-
fico real of the simulated.
Upon learning of this vulnerability, the Radar team
COVID implemented an algorithm whereby all applications
they periodically send fictitious data frames (fake frames).
These frames are indistinguishable from real frames, both in volume
information transmitted: padding is done with fake keys until comp-
complete frames with 30 keys in total; as in processing time
on the server: since the processing time of the fake frames in
server would be lower because they are discarded without storing in the BBDD,
includes an artificial wait until completing 2 seconds of processing.
server, which corresponds to the average processing time
thinking of real positives.
The dummy traffic is implemented using a dummy function on the devices.
mobile positives, both Android and iOS. In the same way, it is im-
complements a complementary functionality in the backend, identifying
those false frames that have been generated and discarding their content.
do.
The randomness of these communications has been implemented initially
following a uniform distribution, forwarding frames with an in-
average interval around 3 hours.
Subsequently, the DP-3T team has suggested that the fake traffic is
subject to an exponential function, with an average of one remission
every five days, which introduces random time latencies between
different generated frames, which make the traffic virtually
impossible to distinguish from actual shipments.
An exchange of emails and a videoconference have been held in-
between the Radar COVID team and the DP-3T team throughout the month of October.
tuber, and finally the proposal to change the uniform distribution was accepted.
form an exponential distribution. This change will be incorporated into
a new version of the system that is expected to be released on Friday
on October 30, 2020, along with other features.
Regarding the use by third parties of the exposed data:
They state that the Radar COVID team is not aware of any use
lization by third parties of the exposed data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/212

It has been verified by data inspection that version 1.0.7 of the Ra-
give COVID uploaded to Google play on October 8, 2020 reports, among the no-
truths, the inclusion of sending false positive communications. It has been verified
verified that version 1.1.0 has been uploaded to the Google repository on the 29th of
October 2020.
It has also been verified that the publication of the software components
has been updated several times at https://github.com/radarcovid at
several dates from November 8 and 4, 2020.”

EIGHTH: On May 21, 2021, the director of the AEPD agreed to initiate
sanctioning procedure to SEDIA, in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and
64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), for alleged infringement of the
following articles of the RGPD: 5.1.a); 5.2; 12; 13; 25; 28.1, 28.3 and 28.10; and 35,
typified in articles 83.4.a) and 83.5.a) and b) of the RGPD.

NINTH: On June 7, 2021, SEDIA presents a document through which
requests the extension of the term to submit allegations and provide documents or other
elements of judgment, and in addition, the remission of the sanctioning file.

TENTH: On June 8, 2021, the examining body agrees to extend the
period requested up to a maximum of five days and dated June 11, 2021, the remittance
sion of the copy of the file, in accordance with the provisions of articles 32.1 and
53.1 a) of the LPACAP.

The extension agreement is notified on June 8, 2021, through Folder
Citizen.

The referral of the copy of the file occurs on June 14, 2021, via
courier, according to the delivery certificate that appears in the file.

ELEVEN: On June 15, 2021, it is presented, in a timely manner, written in
the one who adduces allegations and expresses what is appropriate to his right:

In summary, it states that:

GENERAL ARGUMENTS:

The project to build the national contact tracing solution, Radar
COVID, has been very demanding due to the very tight deadlines managed (which
that imposed contracting by emergency procedure), due to the technical difficulties
inherent nology, and the complexity of interoperating with the 19 health systems
riors of the Autonomous Communities and Cities, as with other countries of our
environment, through the interoperability node of the European Commission.

Despite these difficulties, it was developed very quickly, with technical solvency
and epidemiological, and with the maximum guarantees of data protection, using the
protocol that guarantees privacy (DP3-T), which includes strict considerations
privacy by design, this protocol is used by a majority of countries in
implementation of such applications.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/212

Given the rush of deadlines, a work system of weekly meetings was implemented
them with all the agents involved

-
The Ministry of Health (hereinafter, MSND) and the Canarian Community,
participating in all pilot meetings and being involved in all decisions
strategic decisions that were taken for its development, execution and evaluation.

-
The MSND, present at all these meetings, leading the execution of the
jobs, how could it be otherwise as he is responsible for the National System
National Health Service and giving precise indications throughout the evolution process
of the application from the pilot, through the testing phase to the consolidation
giving of the app

-
The SGAD, executing technological developments and promoting the use of
the application to achieve greater effectiveness of this, always counting on
the necessary coverage to do so, and with a specific mandate in each case
of the MSND as the health authority of the country:

o Letter from the Director of Public Health for the pilot.

o Agreement of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System for the use
in COVID Radar tests.

o Agreement of October 13 for the definitive use of the application and signature of the
corresponding agreements.

Corresponding to the SGAD in all cases, the role of Treatment Manager,
which is what he has exercised throughout the development and evolution of the application.

Also that technical experts in access have joined the COVID Radar team.
from the ONCE Foundation and CERMI to provide even more trans-
parity all the processes carried out to improve the accessibility of the
application and as external validators of the same.

Unusual transparency measures have been taken in the Public Administration.
Spanish ca as the publication of the Risk Analysis, and the Impact Assessment,
as well as the source code of the application for general scrutiny by professionals and
experts in privacy, security and data protection.

The Impact Assessment document has also been analyzed by the group
eHealth of the European Union, attesting to the privacy of the application and the non-re-
collection of any personal data or data that allows the user to be identified.

In addition, the requests and doubts that the analysts or technicians have
raised on the source code published on Github.

Many parliamentary questions have been answered, questions from the Ombudsman of
People, consultations for the right of access under the Transparency Law, thousands of
questions from users of the application, etc.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/212

Unfortunately, the initiation of preliminary investigative actions by the
AEPD on May 21, 2020 has not allowed the exchange of information.

The SGAD has acted at all times respecting the indications given by the
MSND, always acting in line and with the requirements established in the initiatives
in this matter, and trying, in the exercise of its competences, and
according to the assigned role, respond to the demands that at that time
commanded the citizens acting, within the urgency that the works have required
during the emergency situation, with full respect for all legal requirements
required.

SPECIFIC ALLEGATIONS:

REGARDING REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FROM THE AEPD

The initiation of investigative actions by the AEPD coincided with the
with the announcement of the contact tracing pilot project in La Gomera, in a mo-
moment in which the work team of the Radar project was not yet constituted
COVID, and therefore the project was not started either, strictly speaking.

For this reason, the first information requirements requested by the AEPD referred to
reference to documents that were not available simply because they did not exist at all.
still, since they were not necessary as they were fictitious data.

The emergency contract entered into between the SGAD and INDRA begins on June 15.
child of 2020.

In view of the allegations of the SGAD in response to the requirements of the
AEPD, dated February 26, 2021, the SGID issued a report on actions
prior investigation.

This report investigates: SEDIA, and the General Secretariat of Digital Health, In-
Training and Innovation of the National Health System of the MSND.

The health authorities of the Autonomous Communities are not investigated, even
when the Agreement of August 19, 2020 of the Interterritorial Health Council on
the use of the Radar Covid application, in the testing phase, by the Communities
des and Autonomous Cities, indicates its competence as responsible for the treatment
of data in their respective territory.

Likewise, the text of the Agreements signed between the SGAD and the Ministries of
Health of different Autonomous Communities, it can be deduced that the latter have
co-responsibility in the processing of data, in particular those related to tracking
of automated contacts, such as the management of the confirmation codes of
site.

REGARDING THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA

The Radar COVID application performs certain data processing, such as: identification-
ephemeral data (pseudonymized data) or 12-digit position statement code

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/212

tive.

It is an application that follows the DP3-T protocol, privacy protection by di-
design, using the exposure notification system that Apple and Google announced
cialized on April 10, 2020, and used in 19 countries of the European Union to
build your contact tracing apps.

Therefore, it was initially alleged that there was no processing of personal data.

It is also necessary to remember that the application does not register users, nor does it obtain
has information on the mobile device, nor does it geolocate, nor does it collect the IP address of the device.
moving positive. It only requires bluetooth communications to exchange codes
random (ephemeral bluetooth identifiers) that do not reveal the identity of the user
of the application and that are always between two mobile terminals and with the prior con-
user sentiment.

In any case, the SGAD sent, at the time, the conditions of use and policy of
privacy of the application to the AEPD, requesting that they review and provide ob-
servations. Given that the Agency was already acting in the procedure for updating
previous tions, there was no possibility of such a report, a situation that has continued in the
time so far.

Additionally, in the period from June 29 to July 29, the application was operative
tive for a pandemic simulation pilot on the island of La Gomera. The relative data
The declaration of positive cases for COVID-19 were completely simulated,
as evidenced by the terms of use and privacy policy at that time.
unto

At a later time, the privacy policy is updated to collect the treatments
data processing in relation to:

1. Temporary exhibition keys.

2. 12-digit codes for declaration of positives.

3. User consent to send passwords.

There are other data, such as IP addresses, which, although they can be obtained, are not
are processed. This is expressly stated in the privacy policy.

Finally, it is indicated that the application does not perform a user registration, nor does it obtain
mobile device training.

Notwithstanding all of the above, it is not ruled out that in the future they may be carried out, for
Competent Bodies, analysis of aggregated data on the volume of discharges
gas of the application, volume of infected users, or other anonymous indicators and
aggregates, for scientific research projects, always complying with the regulations
It's about data protection.

Note, finally, in this section, that regarding the processing of data from the app,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/212

No notice has been received, due to its hypothetical misuse, from the Protection Delegates.
tion of Data from the Ministries of Health, and of Economic Affairs and Transformation
Digital tion.

REGARDING THE ROLE OF THE SGAD IN DATA PROCESSING

For reasons of clarity, it is convenient to distinguish two stages:

1st. The stage in which the SEDIA pilot project is carried out was authorized on the 9th of
June 2020 by the DGSP of the MSND to conduct a pilot project on the island of Go-
mere, which allowed the completion of the corresponding contract file.

The contract included the design, construction of the application, the achievement of a
pilot, and its evaluation, as well as adaptations of the application based on
the pilot results. The contract was made for a duration of five months, until
on November 14, 2020

In its authorization, the DGSP establishes on June 9, 2020 that: the person in charge of the
treatment of the data of this pilot will be the health authority of the Community in
that is going to be carried out.

SEDIA remains in charge of processing the data and results.

The DGSP participated in the weekly meetings of the pilot, for the formation of the
goals and means of the project. In particular, D, X.X.X., Director of the Coordination Center
and Health Alerts, as well as personnel from his unit, were part of the follow-up
weekly lie. Authorities were also part of the follow-up committee.
health of the Government of the Canary Islands, and responsible for the Digital Modernization area.

In any case, the data handled in the pilot carried out between the months of July
January and July 2020 only handled simulated infection data, not putting themselves in
compromise any personal data, much less related to the health of the
pilot participants. The project team, together with independent experts
have published an article on the work carried out in San Sebastián de la Gomera
in the journal Nature Communications, giving an idea of the usefulness of this tool to
effects of cutting virus transmission chains: “A population-based controlled ex-
periment assessing the epidemiological impact of digital contact tracing”, see https://
www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-20817-6

2º.- The stage in which the application is launched in the testing phase and post-
riorly the ultimate app.

The Agreement adopted on August 19, 2020 in the Interterritorial Council of the System
National Health, noted that:

“During the term of this Agreement, the data controller will be the
MSND and, in their respective territory, each of the Communities and Cities
Autonomous that are incorporated during the testing phase to the use of the
application, fully displaying its powers in health matters. The
in charge of the treatment will be, in both cases, the Secretary of State for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/212

Digitization and Artificial Intelligence.”

This Agreement allows the Autonomous Communities to temporarily assume, until the signature of
the aforementioned agreements, the management of the positive diagnosis codes that are assigned
to those citizens with a positive PCR test.

Subsequently, the "Resolution of October 13, 2020, of the
Undersecretariat, which publishes the Agreement between the Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Digital Transformation and the Ministry of Health”, about the Ra-
give COVID.”

In this Agreement, the SGAD is empowered to sign Agreements with Communities
Autonomous Cities and Authorities, specifying that: “in the aforementioned Agreements of
collaboration, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry responsible for health
Community or Autonomous City in question will appear as the responsibility
responsible for the processing of personal data and the SGAD as the person in charge of processing
treatment.”

In the different Agreements, which have all the legally required authorizations
gibles, held between the MSND and the Autonomous Communities, it has been pointed out repeatedly
rarely that:

“The Ministry of Health is Responsible for the Processing of data from the application.
Radar COVID tion. In this condition, among others, the following apply:
following treatment activities:

a) Request from the SGAD, as required, the confirmation codes of the
sitive by test.

b) Provide the above confirmation codes to users with a diagnosis.
positive prognosis”.

Corresponding to the SGAD, among other functions, that of …….”h) Comply with
the tasks as in charge of the treatment indicated by the Ministry of
Health as responsible for it”.

Therefore, it is fully accredited that at all times the SGAD acted and acts
solely and exclusively as in charge of the treatment, while the MSND and Comun-
Autonomous entities were and are responsible for said treatment.

It should be noted that at no time has the MSND failed to comply with its obligations
in the Radar COVID project, and has provided guidelines, such as the collections
in the technical document: “Implementation procedure of the App Radar CO-
VID as a complement to manual contact identification systems”, coordinates
dinated by the Center for the Coordination of Health Alerts and Emergencies, Directorate
General Public Health, Quality and Innovation and approved by the Alerts Report
and Preparedness and Response Plans.

In addition, as has been seen in the general allegations, at all times
both in the development of the pilot, and in the use of Radar COVID in tests, as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/212

In the Agreement of October 13, the roles of data controller were defined.
treatment and treatment manager, so there can be no doubts about the legitimacy
training that each one had in the development of the application.

Likewise, the reference to the MSND on page 84 of the Initial Agreement is striking.
Sanctioning Procedure: “If the Ministry of Health had wanted to find
recommend to SEDIA the development of the Radar COVID App, would have shown its willingness
tad unequivocally. And I would have done it in the same way as the rest of the encounters.
midas. However, this did not occur."

This statement does not take into consideration that the encomienda, article 11 of the Law
40/15 cannot affect the competence or its exercise, given that the Ministry and the
SEDIA may relate through any other instrument or means permitted by
current regulations in the public interest, article 9 of the aforementioned law that allows
delegate your exercise.

REGARDING THE ROLE OF INDRA

1.- The AEPD points out that “it is not justified why INDRA offers sufficient guarantees
as data processor”:

At no time, the specifications for the design, development, pilot and evaluation
Implementation of a system that allows contact tracing in relation to the pandemic
caused by Covid-19 indicates that INDRA is in charge of the treatment, such a role
SGAD has always played it.

It must be remembered that in the Report justifying the contracting file,
provided a justification for the advisability of contracting INDRA for its experience
experience in technological projects.

Specifically, it cites:

“In order to immediately carry out the development of this System, it is necessary to
It will consist of a multidisciplinary team, which collects profiles with functional knowledge
nal on contact tracing, mobile solutions architects, specialists
in user experience, test technicians and cybersecurity. It has been
considered that the company INDRA SOLUCIONES TECNOLOGÍAS DE LA INFOR-
MACIÓN, S.L.U., which stands out for its extensive experience in all types of pro-
technological projects, as well as in the design of mobile solutions in relation
with the COVID-19 health crisis (COVID MONITOR, App C19-Pass), it is
technically and organizationally prepared to carry out this project and has
the ability to assemble a team with the required profiles immediately
in order to carry out the tasks and actions to achieve the objectives
of the development project.

INDRA is a multinational company with extensive experience in projects with the
Public Sector, and gathers sufficient guarantees to satisfy the object of the contract. Of
In fact, INDRA periodically submits to independent audits for the certification
tion of its management and production systems in accordance with the main standards
international res, among which are those listed in Annex I.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

55/212

2.- On the other hand, the AEPD indicates in its report that "if (SEDIA) had acted
in the capacity of data processor [...] should have required the data controller
subject to processing the prior authorization required by the RGPD in writing, before
resort to another person in charge (INDRA) to develop the entrusted service”.

On the one hand, SEDIA has always acted as data processor.

Contracting in favor of INDRA includes in the clauses duties in terms of pro-
protection of personal data:

“The provisions of organic law 3/2018, of December 5, must be complied with.
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights, adapted
ted to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council,
April 27, 2016, and by which Directive 95/46/CE (Regulation
General Data Protection), including the provisions of the additional provision
first of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5 and in the Royal De-
decree 3/2010, of January 8. Pursuant to the first additional provision of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Security Measures in the field
of the public sector, the security measures to be applied in the framework of the treaties
Personal data processing will correspond to those of the Administration
of public origin and will be adjusted to the National Security Scheme.

INDRA INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS will be required to
S.L.U. the express manifestation of submission to national regulations and
the European Union in terms of data protection in accordance with the articles
35.1d and 122.2 of the LCSP modified by article 5 of the Royal Decree Law
14/2019, of October 31, by which urgent measures are adopted for reasons
public security measures in matters of digital administration, contracting of
public sector and telecommunications.”

And in any case, the SGAD informed the MSND about the contracting of the developments and the
operation of the system to the company INDRA, and therefore the MSND was aware from
the first moment of this hiring and did not raise any objection.

REGARDING THE IMPACT ASSESSMENT RELATIVE TO THE PROTECTION OF
DATA.

First of all, it is worth mentioning that although the EIPD published in September 2020 was
version 1.1, a version 1.0 of the EIPD already existed prior to August 19,
2020. The EIPD provided to the AEPD was version 1.1, since it is the one that was published,
with the deployment in September 2020 of a version of the application, with support
bearing of co-official languages.

During the period from August 19 to publication in September 2020,
there was an internal debate about the advisability or not of the publication of said document.
ment.

The earnest request of the European Committee for Data Protection (hereinafter,
CEPD) does not in itself constitute an obligation to publish this information,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

56/212

although it does constitute a strong recommendation. In fact, the General Administration
of the State (hereinafter, AGE), which is the sole legal entity, which holds the
adition of responsible and in charge of the treatment through different bodies, not
has been publishing, neither the EIPD, nor the Risk Analysis on which they are based.

The SGAD sought criteria from the METD's data protection delegate. His judgment was
that, in general, these documents should not be published.

In any case, the recommendation of the CEPD was finally followed, and proceeded to publish
Carry out the EIPD and the previous Risk Analysis in September 2020.

REGARDING THE TERMS OF USE AND PRIVACY POLICY

1.- The AEPD indicates in its report that:

“In the first version of the App planned for the Pilot Program on the island of
La Gomera (July 2020) the information was collected in two different documents
regarding privacy.[..] However, none of them defined who was the
responsible or in charge of the treatment”

It should be remembered that the first version of the App (pilot) was used for testing purposes.
bar
aspects such as usability, perception of privacy, and effectiveness of the solution in a
simulated environment. In no case were the health data of the participants handled.
in the pilot.

And the privacy policy included the following notice:

“The USER of this application is warned that when downloading the application
tion on your mobile device and using it, you are merely participating voluntarily
mind in a PILOT EXPERIENCE WITH FICTITIOUS DATA alert of
COVID-19 infections on THE ISLAND OF LA GOMERA.

It is also reported that this application will stop working once
complete the pilot experience.

Therefore, in the use of the application, all notifications of exposures to
possible contagion of the disease that the user may receive correspond to
simulated assumptions and, for the same reason, as it is a pilot experience,
lotto with fictitious data, suggestions for adopting preventive measures and
care providers who, after this notification, provide the application have no other value.
need to check that the application is capable of providing suggestions of that
type to a user who received a notification of exposure to possible contact
gio"

2.- On p. 110 of the agreement states that: "On the other hand there have been various
revisions to existing ‘Terms of Use’ and ‘Privacy Policy’.”

The Radar COVID team has been reviewing and updating the documents with the
encouragement to improve its content and make it easier to read and understand. Additionally, it

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

57/212

they have incorporated additional issues such as European interoperability.

With each update of the application, if there was a change in the conditions of use and possible
privacy policy, express consent was requested again from the users.
users.

3.- On p. 111 mentions that “it is not clear who is responsible for the trafficking
neither the data of the DPD, which is not even mentioned in the policy of
privacy".

The current privacy policy (https://radarcovid.gob.es/politica-de-privacidad) is
establishes the MSND and Autonomous Communities as data controllers, and
as in charge of the treatment to the General Secretariat of Digital Administration.

4.- Regarding the increase of 700 words in the privacy policy, the SGAD has
been revising the documents with the aim of improving their content and facilitating their reading.
ra and understanding. It corresponds to more extensive explanations of the sections
of privacy, as well as the extension to new uses of the application, such as the inter-
compatibility with European Union contact tracing applications.

The new functionalities (such as the connection of Radar COVID to the European node of
interoperability) has led to the updating of the conditions of use and policy
of privacy, in order to provide transparency and information to users of
the application.

5.- Regarding the information indicated in the terms established in articles 12
and 13 of the RGPD:

The conditions of use and privacy policy have always been accessible to
those interested, both from the mobile application and from the web http://radarcovid.-
gob.es

Therefore, express consent to these two documents is necessary in order to
use the app. In the time that the application is operational, SEDIA has not received
received any complaint from the Data Protection Delegate of the MSND in relation to the
COVIDRadar application.

6.- About the information related to the person in charge, recipients or the rights of the ar-
titles 15 to 22:

Just remember that in the privacy policy there are links to both a form of
the AEPD for the exercise of rights, as well as a link to the MSND, to contact
with the Data Protection Delegate.

REGARDING THE DETECTED VULNERABILITY (COMPLAINTS 2 AND 3)

The vulnerability reported by a group of privacy experts was received at
mid-September 2020. The vulnerability was analyzed and an update was scheduled.
correction coinciding with an upcoming release of the application. It was corrected on 8
October 2020, and shared the code that corrected the issue with the team

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

58/212

technician of the Federal Polytechnic School of Lausanne (EPFL), which is the one who had im-
pressed the DP3-T protocol, guarantor of privacy.

Likewise, it has not been detected nor is there evidence that this theoretical vulnerability
has been exploited or taken advantage of in any real case, surely due to the difficulty
and little benefit that would be obtained from its implementation.

There is no 100% secure system, and it was decided to continue, since the alternative
was to paralyze the use and development of the app with the consequent risk in its full state
health emergency alarm.

REGARDING THE DOCUMENTARY SOURCES USED BY THE AEPD

The press releases have a merely informative value of a public performance and
not attributive of any competence, reserved this attributive power to the rules
and acts mentioned in the previous allegations of this document.

Therefore, we consider that they cannot be given the value described in the AGREEMENT.
DO OF USE OF THE “RADAR COVID” APPLICATION, IN THE TESTING PHASE, BY
PART OF THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES AND CITIES of the Interterritorial Council
torial of the National Health System (August 19, 2020), the Resolution of October 13,
October 2020, of the Undersecretariat, by which the Agreement between the Ministry
of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation and the MSND, about the application
"Radar COVID (BOE of October 15) or the different Agreements signed between the
SGAD and the Autonomous Communities and published in the BOE.

In all of them, the role of SEDIA is included: The person in charge of the treatment will be, the Se-
Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence.

CONCLUSION

The SGAD considers that there has been no infringement of the precepts mentioned in the
FIRST section of the AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE-
DOR, and therefore the start of this procedure is not appropriate.

On the other hand, if the resolution derives from measures that have to be adopted for the
better compliance with data protection regulations, there is a strong will
by the SGAD to proceed in this direction, following, in any case, the directions
AEPD guidelines and guidelines.

These allegations have already been answered in the motion for a resolution and are reiterated,
in part, in the Legal Basis (hereinafter FD) of this Resolution.

TWELFTH: On September 22, 2021, the instructor of the procedure
agreed to perform the following tests:
1. Claims filed by
a C.C.C., A.A.A., B.B.B. and RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL SPAIN, and the documentation
tion that accompanies them.

2. The documents obtained and generated by the Inspection Services before the SE-
CERTIFICATE OF THE STATE OF DIGITALIZATION AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (SE-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

59/212

DIA) and the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC HEALTH (DGSP), and the Action Report
previous situations of the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection that form
part of file E/03936/2020.

3. Likewise, the allegations to the agreement are considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes.
initiation document PS/00222/2021 presented by SEDIA, on June 15,
2021, through the Reg. Aux. of the Secretary of State for Public Administration.

4. SEDIA is REQUIRED to provide the following information and/or documentation-

following:

4.1. Regarding the Radar COVID PILOT APPLICATION launched in-
between June 29 and July 29, 2020 on the island of La Gomera and from 18
August 2020 nationwide:

a) Total number of app users who participated in the pilot phase
and total number of pseudo-random codes or proximity identifiers.
ity that were uploaded to the server during this phase.

b) Information on the data collected through the pilot application (in-
including connection data between the user's terminal and the server and the
metadata).

c) Information on the processing of personal data, understood as the

set of operations performed on that data.

d) Information on the following question: What did the material materially consist of?

that data processing?
Specifically, the life cycle of the processed data, the process of these dis-
from its collection to its deletion or blocking.

e) Copy of the record of personal data processing activities
made in the pilot project. Said register, referred to in article
30 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, must provide-
be in its initial version, together with any additions, modifications or exclusions
sion in the content of this.

f) Copy of the impact assessment related to data protection respec-
to the pilot project and related documentation. Specification of the su-
object that elaborates it and the moment in which it is carried out (start and end date).
zation).

g) If the Impact Assessment was prepared, supporting documentation of the

participation of the data protection officer in it.

h) Copy of the impact assessment, version 1.0, to which it refers in

the allegations (page 20).

i) Documentation accrediting the participation of the protection delegate

of data in the impact evaluation version 1.0.

j) Data protection risk analysis on the pilot project and documents
mention relating to it. Specification of the subject that prepares it and the
moment in which it is carried out (start and end date).

k) Copy of the content of the minutes of the meetings held between the SE-
DIA and the General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation, or another

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

60/212

higher or directive body of the Ministry of Health, which include the information
information regarding agreed decisions on the protection of data
applicable to the pilot project, with identification of the condition of the
different participants (responsible or in charge).

l) Copy of the content of the minutes of the meetings held between the SE-
DIA, the Ministry of Health (or its superior or directive body) and the
Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, on the project for the application of
Radar COVID, which include information regarding the decisions agreed upon
data protection measures applicable to the pilot project.

m) Documentation accrediting the contract or other legal act signed between
the General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation or another body
superior or director of the Ministry of Health and SEDIA, to carry out
pilot project, in accordance with the provisions of article 28.3 of the Re-
regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016.

n) Documentation accrediting the documented instructions of the Di-
General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation or another subordinate body
superior or director of the Ministry of Health, addressed to SEDIA, in accordance with
to the provisions of article 28.3.a) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of 27
April 2016.

o) Documentation accrediting prior authorization, in writing, specifically
or general, in favor of SEDIA or the General Secretariat of the Admi-
Digital Administration (SGAD) by the General Directorate of Public Health
ca, Quality and Innovation or another higher or directive body of the Ministry of
Health, in relation to the contract signed with INDRA, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 28.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27,
2016.

p) Copy of the specifications of administrative clauses and technical requirements
cas, if any, and a copy of the manager or sub-manager contract
of the treatment signed between SEDIA or SGAD and INDRA, in relation
with the pilot project.

q) Documentation accrediting the participation of the Ministry of Health.
(through the corresponding superior or managerial body) in the development
Development and launch of the pilot project.

The previous information and documentation foreseen in section 4.1 -insisti-
we- is required in relation to the pilot test, from the beginning of the actions
tions related to it, including the phase prior to its start-up and
further development to completion.
4.2. Regarding the Radar COVID APPLICATION launched in the different
autonomous communities and cities after accession through the
appropriate bilateral agreements signed between the Ministry of Health and the
Corresponding ministries:

a) Personal data required by the Radar COVID application to function

operate correctly and fulfill its purposes.

b) Information on the processing of such personal data, understood

as the set of operations performed on that data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

61/212

c) Information on the following question: What has the material-

Mind that data processing?
Specifically, the life cycle of the processed data, the process of these dis-
from its collection to its deletion or blocking.

d) Documentation accrediting whether the protection delegate has been requested
tion of METD data advice on the legal nature of the
processed data and the response, if any, that it has formulated.

e) Copy of the record of personal data processing activities
made in the Radar COVID application. This record, referred to
Article 30 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, must-
will be provided in its initial version, together with any additions, modifications
or exclusion in the content of this.

f) Impact assessment(s) relating to data protection

regarding the Radar COVID application.

The information and documentation provided for in section 4.2 is required in re-
connection with the commissioning of the Radar COVID application from the 10th of
October 2020, after the publication in the BOE of the Resolution of October 13
2020, of the Undersecretariat, by which the Agreement between the ME-
TDy the Ministry of Health, about the application "Radar COVID".

The notification of the agreement was made on September 22, 2021, by means of
of the Electronic Notifications Service and Authorized Electronic Address, according to
certificate in the file.
THIRTEENTH: On October 25, 2021, SEDIA submits a letter to
through which he requests an extension of the test period to ten working days
them more.

The agreement that grants an extraordinary trial period, for a period of 10 days,
It is notified on October 28, 2021 through the Electronic Notification Service.
nicas and Electronic Address Enabled.

FOURTEENTH: The SEDIA, dated November 22, 2021, in response to the
notified evidence requirement provided the following documents to the proceedings:
cough:
- Answer and remittance of documentation in the trial period of the procedure.

sanctioning action of the AEPD in relation to the Radar COVID application.

- Doc. 1. Radar Covid Conclusions Report of January 28, 2021
- Doc. 2. EIPD Report_ COVID Radar v.1.0.pdf
- Doc. 3. AARR_AppCOVID_v1.0.pdf
- Doc. 4. MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE INTER-TERRITORIAL WORKING GROUP Vi-

deoconference June 17, 2020

- Doc. 5. COVID RADAR PRESENTATION GENERAL OPERATION JUNE

2020

- Doc. 5 bis. PILOT PRESENTATION TO CCAA'S JUNE 2020

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

62/212

- Doc. 6. PRESENTATION COVID RADAR MONITORING 07-17-2020
- Doc. 7. MEETING MINUTES JULY 21, 2020
- Doc. 8. PRESENTATION COVID RADAR MONITORING 07-24-2020
- Doc. 9. MEETING MINUTES JULY 27, 2020
- Doc. 10. MINUTES OF AUGUST 5 MEETING **
- Doc. 11. COVID MONITORING RADAR PRESENTATION JULY 31, 2020
- Doc. 12. PRESENTATION AUGUST 21, 2020
- Doc. 13. MINUTES AUGUST 26, 2020
- Doc. 14. Mandate of the General Directorate of Public Health of the Ministry of Health.
giving its approval for the development of the mobile application pilot for the
traceability of COVID-19 contacts

- Doc. 14 bis. AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE METD (SECRETARIAT OF STATE FOR
TALIZATION AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE) AND THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
ABOUT THE “COVID RADAR” APP

- Doc. 15. Specifications for the design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system that
allows contact tracing in relation to the pandemic caused by covid-
19.

- Doc. 16. Press release JUNE 23
- Doc. 17. Press release AUGUST 3
- Doc. 18. Press release SEPTEMBER 9

FIFTEENTH: On January 26, 2022, the instructor of the procedure
formulates a resolution proposal, in which it proposes that, by the director of the AEPD,
sanctioned with a WARNING to the SECRETARIAT OF STATE FOR DIGITAL
ZATION AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, for violation of the following articles:

- Articles 5.1.a) and 5.2 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and in
article 72.1. a) of the LOPDGDD, for the sole purpose of determining the
prescription bolts.

- Articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD and in the
Article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD, for the sole purpose of determining the deadlines
of prescription.

- Article 25 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD and in the
Article 73 of the LOPDGDD in section d), for the sole purpose of determining
prescription periods.

- Article 28.3 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD and in the
Article 73 of the LOPDGDD in section k), for the sole purpose of determining
prescription periods.

- Article 28.10 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD and in the
Article 73 of the LOPDGDD in section m), for the sole purpose of determining

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

63/212

set the statute of limitations.

- Article 35 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD and in the
article 73 of the LOPDGDD in section t), for the sole purpose of determining
prescription periods.

On January 27, 2022, through the Electronic Notifications Service and
Electronic Address Enabled, the resolution proposal is notified.

SIXTEENTH: On February 7, 2022, SEDIA requests an extension of the
term to formulate allegations to the proposed resolution.

SEVENTEENTH: On February 7, 2022, the examining body agrees to-
Reasonably deny the request for an extension of the requested term.

EIGHTEENTH: On February 10, 2022, the director of the SGAD, by indi-
cation of SEDIA, presents the arguments to the proposed resolution and attaches
a letter requesting the practice of the test.

In the pleadings, in summary, he argues that:

I. BACKGROUND

When the director of the AEPD urged the start of preliminary investigation actions
(May 21, 2020) nor was the RADAR project work team constituted
COVID nor was the project started in the strict sense, so at that time
(May 2020) there were no “facts” that could be examined.

The requirements were answered in a timely manner, providing abundant ex-
applications, information and documentation, which demonstrates the permanent will
collaboration of SEDIA in the context of the open procedure.

These ex officio actions are carried out three and a half months before the existence of the
first claim, the so-called “claimant party one”.

II. ALLEGATIONS.

It considers reproduced those made throughout the processing of the file, as well as
as the documentation sent during the trial period and previous actions.

 A) Regarding the ARGUMENTS OF A GENERAL NATURE:

It argues that RADAR COVID is an App that was created as an additional tool
to help deal with the serious and exceptional health emergency situation
taria in Spain caused by the coronavirus.

In Royal Decree 463/2020, of March 14, essential measures were issued
to deal with the situation, which were proportionate to its extreme gravity
and they did not imply the suspension of any right.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

64/212

In this context, SEDIA, as the person in charge of treatment, acted in accordance with the
indications given at all times by the MSND, as delegated authority of the Government
government in matters of Health and in matters of public health and as responsible for the
treatment of the RADAR COVID application.

It is true that these indications were not reflected in a contract as envisaged in
article 28.1 a) of the RGPD and this is so because the state of alarm made it difficult to form
lization of the usual instruments provided for in the legislation for these cases
under normal circumstances. Yes it is accredited, however, in the documentation
provided in the trial period, the holding of a series of meetings to which
representatives of the MSND, SEDIA and the company awarded the contract attended.
emergency contract for the development of the pilot and the RADAR COVID application,
meetings in which the necessary decisions were made to advance in the development
development of the pilot and the application.

The protection of health in a context of pandemic determined the need for action
act rapidly in a coordinated manner with the collaboration of all the agents involved.
and the relationship between the data controller and the data processor occurred in a
more agile way, as the circumstances demanded, but no less efficient for that
neither less respectful with the right to the protection of personal data nor the
respect for the principle of legal certainty

In addition to regular meetings, the METD, through the SGAD dependent on the
SEDIA, as the person in charge of the treatment, maintained very frequent contact with the
MSND, to receive your indications and to be both departments aligned in the
achievement of the common goal.

Thus, the MSND, through the General Director of Public Health, Quality and Innovation
tion, gave its approval for the development of RADAR COVID, and SEDIA put everything
its commitment to its implementation in the shortest time possible, without detriment to
any right. SEDIA always acted motivated by reasons of public interest and if
following the indications of the Government and its delegated authority (the Minister of Health)
ty) to help tackle the emergency.

 

Spain, like other neighboring countries, through SEDIA and the
SGAD, developed under the tutelage of the MSND and in cooperation with other members of the
European Union and the eHealth network, the RADAR COVID digital tool, taking advantage of
do the results of the pilot experience developed on the Island of La Gomera.

B) Regarding the SPECIFIC ALLEGATIONS:

B.1 Regarding the processing of personal data.

The right to data protection, like any other right, is not absolute. Nope
it suffices to abide by the literal application of a norm, without appealing to, or taking into account
its spirit and purpose as prescribed in article 3 of the Civil Code.

The requirement and application of data protection regulations, in certain circumstances,
such special and atypical circumstances, and without prejudice to respect for the principle of legal certainty.
says, it must be balanced and considered. At no time do the responsible agencies
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

65/212

data protection rules can act as if the state of alarm had not
existed or did not affect the matter of its competence and the exercise of its powers.

In the testing phase, SEDIA points out that the data collected and generated by the
application do not allow, by default, the direct identification of the user or his device.
site. However, although, according to recital 30 of the RGPD, users
could become identifiable by associating some online identifier.
nea facilitated by the device or other type of tools or protocols, in the project
pilot data were not real (they were test) and the infected codes for their
introduction in the App were false. When the App was opened in La Gomera to the public,
people could not enter real data of being infected.

 

The treatment of this data by RADAR COVID has been lawful, it is worth reminding this
Regarding the AEPD Report 17/2020, of March 12, that the RGPD provides that the
legal basis that grants legality to this type of treatment (beyond the cases in which
where the interested party gives consent), we find it in articles 6.1.d)
(when necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or other persons
physical) and 6.1.e) (when necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out).
in the public interest).

B.2 Regarding the role of the SGAD in data processing

1st. The stage in which the pilot project is done.
 
On June 9, 2020, SEDIA received the approval of the General Directorate of Health
Public Ministry of the MSND to conduct a pilot project on the island of La Gomera, which could
made it possible to carry out the corresponding contracting file. In your authorization
tion established that: On the other hand, we understand that the data controller
of the data of this pilot will be the health authority of the Community in which
will carry out. SEDIA being in charge of data processing and
results.

The MSND, through the DGSP, participated in the weekly pilot meetings for the
conformation of the aims and means of the project. In particular, D, X.X.X., Director of the
Health Alerts and Coordination Center, as well as staff from its unit, trained
They were part of the weekly follow-up. They were also part of the follow-up committee
health authorities of the Government of the Canary Islands.

In any case, the data handled in the pilot carried out between the months of July
January and July 2020 were simulated infection data (not real data), not putting
compromise any personal data, much less related to the health of the
participants. The project team, together with independent experts, has published
an article on the work carried out in San Sebastián de la Gomera in the magazine Na-
ture Communications, giving an idea of the usefulness of this tool in order to cut
virus transmission chains.

2º.- The stage in which the application is launched in the testing phase and post-
riorly the ultimate app.

The Agreement of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, of August 19
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

66/212

of 2020, allowed the Autonomous Communities to temporarily assume, until the signing of the
aforementioned agreements, the management of the positive diagnosis codes that were assigned
to those citizens with a positive diagnostic test for active infection (PCR or
other techniques).

On the other hand, on August 25, 2020, after the meeting of the Council of Ministers, the
The President of the Government presented the roadmap to deal with the rise of the
“second epidemiological curve”, in the context of the SARS-C0V2 pandemic in
our country. Among other measures, he cited the strengthening of digital means of tracking,
requesting citizens to use RADAR COVID.

Subsequently, the Agreement of October 9, 2020 was published, which empowered the SGAD
for the signing of Agreements with Autonomous Communities and Cities, specifically
stating that: “in the aforementioned collaboration agreements, the Ministry of Health
and the Ministry responsible for health in the Community or City.
Autonomous entity in question will appear as responsible for the treatment of
personal data and the SGAD as the data processor.”

In the different Agreements, which have all the legally required authorizations
gibles, celebrated between the SGAD and the Autonomous Communities, it has been pointed out repeatedly that: “the
Ministry of Health is Responsible for the Data Processing of the RA-
GIVE COVID. In this condition, the following activities, among others, correspond:
from treatment:

a) Request from the SGAD, as required, the confirmation codes of the
sitive by test.
b) Provide the above confirmation codes to users with a diagnosis.
positive prognosis”.

Corresponding to the SGAD, among other functions, that of (...): ”h) Comply with the co-
inserted as in charge of the treatment indicated by the Ministry of Health
as responsible for it”.

It is fully accredited that at all times and in accordance with the instruments
legally binding acts, that the SGAD acted and acts solely and exclusively
as in charge of the treatment, while the MSND and the CCAA were and are the
responsible for said treatment.

In this sense, the MSND has provided guidelines to SEDIA-SGAD, such as
example those included in the technical document called “Implementation procedure
ration of the RADAR COVID App as a complement to manual identity systems
tification of contacts”, coordinated by the Center for the Coordination of Alerts and Emer-
Health agencies, General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation and appro-
supported by the Report on Alerts and Preparedness and Response Plans.

In this sense, RADAR COVID has been prepared following the epidemiological criteria
cos of the "Strategy for early detection, surveillance and control of COVID-19" published
by the Ministry of Health.

At all times, both in the development of the pilot on the Island of La Gomera, and in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

67/212

use of RADAR COVID in tests by the Autonomous Communities, and in its use after said phase of
tests, the roles of data controller and data controller were defined.
treatment. The documents that prove this are:

a) The letter of June 9, 2020 from the General Director of Public Health, California
ity and Innovation giving the go-ahead to the realization of the App.

b) The Agreement of the Interterritorial Council of August 19, 2020.

c) and the Agreement published in the BOE on October 15, 2020.

Regarding the statement contained in the proposal on page 159: “The AEPD does not understand
neither to examine nor to qualify what should be the legal instrument through which
formally entrusts SEDIA with the commissioning of the treatment referred to the requested project.
loto RADAR COVID (...)”, SEDIA refers again to the documents indicated
previously.

The AEPD makes a lengthy reasoning to point out that, in its opinion, the SEDIA has played
do, clearly, the role of data controller, but in the documents that are
have cited, SEDIA always appears with the person in charge of the treatment and its actions
have always been aimed at fulfilling this function.

It also alludes to the value of the METD Press Releases, which the AEPD grants in the
page 140: “Press releases raise transparency and accountability to their
maximum expression and are included as part of the proven facts for this reason.”

SEDIA can only disagree with this statement. Press releases are
simple announcements made by the METD to inform citizens and the media
communication, of activities that were planned or in progress. Tie-
have a dissemination and publicity value, in no case can they be considered, with a
value so singular as to affirm that “they raise transparency to its maximum expression”.
sion“, since there are other more effective instruments to fulfill this function, foreseen
by the regulations and described in Law 19/2013, of December 9, on transparency,
access to public information and good governance.

Nor is it possible to infer from these that, from the beginning, SEDIA acted as a response
responsible for the treatment, since the fact of informing the public about certain
ned matters that fall within the scope of the department's competence, not
necessarily implies that the one who informs is the one who determines all the contents
about which it is reported.

The Press Releases cannot be used to assign the roles of Data Controller.
or Data Processor, since they are mere informative documents and
not attributive of competencies, therefore, it is impossible to draw this type of conclusion.

Nor is it possible to assign SEDIA the role of data controller only
because in a document on the FAQ RADAR COVID the purposes of the
treatment, nor because the SGAD is identified as the owner of the application in the
Conditions of Use of the application.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

68/212

SEDIA, through the SGAD, has developed these and other applications, and has developed
carried out a dissemination task that the MSND was probably not in a position to
to do because the pandemic situation required greater dedication to other issues.
most relevant in the field of its competences.

With regard to citizens, and as has been pointed out, it was the Government that promoted
the creation of this application and urged the population to use RADAR COVID, since
it was an application that could help mitigate the pandemic at a time of boom
of infections and, furthermore, it was a solution that was being put into operation
development in practically all the countries in our European environment, so there is no
it can be affirmed that it was SEDIA that, due to press advertisements, had an appearance
experience for citizens as data controllers when their role was simply
fully contribute, in collaboration with the entire Government, to provide solutions in the
scope of its powers to promote the digitization of administrations
(and all this without taking into account that the very existence of legal categories
cases such as those responsible for and in charge of data protection processing are
hardly apprehensible for the common recipients of an informative note
ministerial, not even for non-specialized legal operators, and claim that the
general population can draw the conclusions and the subsequent attribution of roles
posed by the motion for a resolution reading a press release and bringing annu-
given some breaches of current regulations exceeds, in our opinion, what is reasonable.
noble).

And as has already been pointed out, the fact of collaborating, promoting and having a relevant role
in trying to convince the population of the use of RADAR COVID, to prevent con-
infections and reduce hospital admissions and thus deaths, offering an explanation
cation of the features of the application in the media, you cannot
to lead to the conclusion that another role different from the one assigned
in the documents repeatedly mentioned. This participation can only be understood
tion from the point of view of a coordinated action of the Government in which all
the departments contributed, in a State of alarm declared to limit the consequences
stories of the pandemic.

It should be remembered, at this point, that it was not until August 6, 2020, when
published the modification of the structure of the MSND with the creation of the SGSDII, with the
consequent attribution of new competences in terms of digitization of the
health and development of Apps in health matters to this department

The AEPD also points out that this role was played by SEDIA without legal coverage.
gal to carry out this role and without delegation or entrustment that allows the exercise
of competition, an issue that cannot be admitted as the SE-
DIA exercise another role other than that of treatment manager, which was the one assigned to
fallen.

B.3 Regarding the role of INDRA

SEDIA, in its capacity as treatment manager, counted from the first mo-
ment, with the authorization of the MSND, as data controller, for the con-
treatment of INDRA, which had sufficient guarantees to guarantee the application
cation of the GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

69/212

B.4 Regarding Impact Assessments

The AEPD points out on page 184 that: "the CEPD considers that it must be carried out
a data protection impact assessment (DPIA) before starting
to use an application of this type because it is considered that the treatment can
of entailing a high risk […]. The CEPD strongly recommends the publication
tion of DPIDs.”

First of all, it is worth mentioning that although the EIPD published in September 2020 was
version 1.1, a version 1.0 of the EIPD already existed prior to August 19,
2020. The EIPD provided to the AEPD was version 1.1, since it is the one that was published,
with the deployment in September 2020 of a version of the application, with support
bearing of co-official languages.

During the period from August 19 to publication in September 2020, it was discussed
internally on the convenience or not of its publication.

In fact, in accordance with article 3.4 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on Regime
Legal Men of the Public Sector (LRJSP), the AGE, which acts to comply with
its purposes with unique legal personality, holds the status of responsible and en-
charged with treatment through different bodies and has not been publishing the EIPD,
nor the Risk Analysis on which they are based, of the systems it develops.

In order to comply with the CEPD's recommendation, the SGAD sought criteria from the
METD Data Protection Delegate. His opinion was that, in general,
these documents should not be published.

In any case, the recommendation of the CEPD was finally followed, and proceeded to publish
Download the DPIA and the previous Risk Analysis in September 2020 (https://github.com/
radarcovid/radar-coviddocumentation).

On the other hand, it is the criterion of the AEPD, and this is stated on page 189 of its proposal
of resolution, that:

“Finally, we will indicate that the subsequent completion of the EIPD does not “correct” the lack
of carrying it out at the right time and with the participation of all the stakeholders.
necessary factors, especially since the lack of risk assessment and
adoption of the appropriate technical and organizational measures, has already caused damage
intangible in the rights and freedoms of citizens, more reprehensible if it is
of Public Administrations”.

It is worth remembering at this point that the pilot application of RADAR COVID used
simulated data, so although the EIPD was done at a time after the start of the
operation of the pilot, yes it was done prior to the moment in which the appli-
cation was going to handle user health data.

B.5 Regarding the conditions of use and privacy policy

The AEPD indicates in its proposed resolution (p. 174) that: “Of the proven facts

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

70/212

two, it is accredited that the first version of the App planned for the program pi-
lotto (July 2020), collected in two different documents the information related to the privacy
city:
 

* Terms of use: https://radarcovid.covid19.gob.es/terms-of-service/use-
terms.html

* Privacy Policy: https://radarcovid.covid19.gob.es/terms-of-service/pri-
emptypolicy.html. However, none of them defined who was responsible.
ble or in charge of the treatment.”

It should be remembered that the first version of the App (pilot) was used for testing purposes.
bar aspects such as usability, perception of privacy, and effectiveness of the solution in
a simulated environment. In no case were the health data of the participants handled.
you in the pilot.

And the Privacy Policy of the app included the following notice:

“The USER of this application is warned that when downloading the application
tion on your mobile device and using it, you are merely participating voluntarily
mind in a PILOT EXPERIENCE WITH FICTITIOUS DATA alert of
COVID-19 infections on THE ISLAND OF LA GOMERA.

It is also reported that this application will stop working once
complete the pilot experience.

Therefore, in the use of the application, all notifications of exposures to
possible contagion of the disease that the user may receive correspond to
simulated assumptions and, for the same reason, as it is a pilot experience,
lotto with fictitious data, suggestions for adopting preventive measures and
care providers who, after this notification, provide the application have no other value.
need to check that the application is capable of providing suggestions of that
type to a user who received a notification of exposure to possible contact
gio”.

The RADAR COVID team has been reviewing and updating the documents with the
encouragement to improve its content and facilitate its reading and understanding, making use of its
faculty of proactive responsibility in the constant improvement of the app and its documentation
associated tation.

Additionally, additional issues have been incorporated such as interoperability
through the European Interoperability Node for National Applications
contact tracing (European Forwarding Gateway Service -EFGS). Must
indicate that for the connection of RADAR COVID to the European interoperability node
system information, conditions of use and privacy policy of the
application, and was approved by the Joint Group of Data Controllers
(eHealth Network Joint Controller Group), where the MSND of the Government of Spain fi-
was listed as one of the members.

With each update of the application (following the principle of proactive responsibility)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

71/212

va), if there was a change in the conditions of use and privacy policy, it was requested
again express consent by users.

On page 175 of the proposal, the AEPD states: “It is not clear who is the res-
responsible for the treatment nor the data of the Data Protection Delegate,
that are not even mentioned in the privacy policy.”

It should be remembered by SEDIA that the current privacy policy (https://radarco-
vid.gob.es/politica-de-privacidad) establishes as data controllers the
Ministry of Health and Autonomous Communities, and as the person in charge of treating
ment to the General Secretariat of Digital Administration.

On page 178 of the sanctioning resolution proposal, the Agency states: “In
sum, the privacy policy has been modified in numerous aspects until
such a point that it supposes an increase of 700 words to the initial version” .

The increase corresponds to more extensive explanations of the privacy sections.
ity, as well as the extension to new uses of the application, such as interoperability
with the contact tracing applications of the European Union.

On the other hand, any changes to the application including new functionalities
(such as the connection of RADAR COVID to the European Interoperability Node) has led to
ved the update of the conditions of use and privacy policy, in order to provide
provide transparency and information to the users of the application.

On page 179, the Agency states: “In short, SEDIA, acting as the party responsible
treatment, did not take the appropriate measures to provide the interested party with all the information
training in the terms established in articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD. This information
information, it should have been provided in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible way.
process, with clear and simple language, and, in addition, where appropriate, viewable.

This is especially pertinent in situations such as the one that occurs, in which the
proliferation of agents and the technological complexity of the App make it difficult
for citizens to know and understand if they are being collected, by whom and for what purpose.
purpose, personal data that concerns him, as in the case analyzed.”

SEDIA wishes to remind in this regard that the conditions of use and privacy policy
emptiness have always been accessible to those interested, both from the application
mobile, such as from the web http://radarcovid.gob.es.

Therefore, the express consent of the user is necessary to be able to use the
application, besides being its totally voluntary use.

In the time that the application has been operational, SEDIA has not received any que-
either formal or informal, of the MSND Data Protection Delegate in relation to
tion to the RADAR COVID application.

On p. 181 of the proposal concludes: "Indicate that initially it was not included
information regarding the person in charge, recipients or the rights of articles 15 to
22. The final version has not included the information regarding the Delegate of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

72/212

Data Protection………..".

 

From SEDIA, just remember that in the section "How is my privacy protected?",
the app collects the following:

“Here is a list of some of the measures with which RADAR CO-

VID protects your data:

• The application does not collect any data that allows you to trace your identity. By
example, it will not ask you and will not be able to know your name, surnames, address
tion, phone number or email address.

• The application does not collect any geolocation data, including that of the
GPS. In addition, it does not track your movements either.
cough.

• The Bluetooth Low Energy code that is transmitted to the
through the app is randomly generated and does not contain any in-
training on your smartphone or on you.

• In addition, this code changes several times every hour to protect even

more your privacy.

• The data stored on your mobile phone is encrypted.

• The connections between the application and the server are encrypted.

• All the data, both those that are saved in the device (international codes)
exchanged with other mobile phones) are deleted after 14 days.

• Likewise, the data collected on the server, coming from the telephones
phones where a positive diagnosis for COVID-19 has been reported, are
deleted after 14 days.

• No data stored on mobile phones or on the server allows

the identification neither of the mobile device itself nor of its user”

 Regarding the vulnerabilities detected

B.6
As already indicated on previous occasions by the SGAD, the vulnerability re-
ported by a group of privacy experts was known in mid-Sep-
tember 2020. It was analyzed and a correction was scheduled to coincide with a
next app release. It was corrected on October 8, 2020, and shared
do the code that corrected the problem with the technical team of the Polytechnic School
Federal Government of Lausanne (EPFL), which is the one that had promoted the DP3-T protocol, guaranteed
you of privacy.

 

The correction was addressed within reasonable timeframes according to its impact.
As was argued to the AEPD, the scenario in which it could ex-
plotting the vulnerability, with a third party with sufficient capacity to spy on networks
of communications, and to cross the information sent by RADAR COVID with other
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

73/212

information at their disposal, which would allow establishing a relationship between the identity
of the user and his positive medical condition for COVID-19, was very remote.

This judgment proved correct, since it has not been detected nor is there evidence that
this theoretical vulnerability has been exploited or taken advantage of in any real case,
probably because of the difficulty and little benefit that would be obtained from its implementation.

It is known by all that there is no computer system that is 100% secure, and
Once these circumstances were considered, it was decided to continue the development (applying
using the principle “in dubio pro actione”). Since the alternative was to stop the use and
development of the app with the consequent risk and detriment to collective health, by
deprive society of a tool with a great potential to help in its full state.
health emergency alarm.

III. CONCLUSION OF THE ARGUMENTS BRIEF
SEDIA is aware that there may be discrepancies in the criteria on the actions
situations in which the start-up work has been completed, in a time
reasonable, of a necessary application in the context of a pandemic in which
rolled, with a declared state of emergency. But he has always acted with a res-
proactive responsibility to correct possible errors or omissions of the App, assuming
protecting the principle of privacy by design, acting in defense of the public interest
public and citizens, and collaborating with the AEPD in everything requested.

 

In fact, SEDIA requested a report from the AEPD at the time it was scheduled
the extension of the application to the Autonomous Communities in August 2020, at which time
The contribution of the AEPD would have been very valuable, but the beginning of the preliminary actions
vias, determined in the opinion of the AEPD the impossibility of having this report.

 

As we have already pointed out before and now repeat, the emergency situation and the
statement the state of alarm altered the ordinary legal order and the way of acting
usual administration.

 

The exceptional situation determined a modulation in the administrative procedures
administration and demanded to act quickly in order to be able to arrive on time and that the application
tion fulfilled its goals at a time when all the governments of our
European and international environment, they were demanding it. And we had to develop
pilot application with simulated data, emergency hiring had to be done
in which essential procedures were suppressed, in favor of agility, and it was necessary to extend
rapid application to the Autonomous Communities through the most immediate legal instruments.
diates and in accordance with the situation that would allow the legal coverage and the
streamlining of bureaucratic procedures.

The pertinent evaluations were made, the analyzes that allowed the haste with which
the application had to be developed and it was always acted with the ultimate goal of exercising
develop a proactive responsibility to allow adequate respect for the protection
of personal data.

In short, according to the previous arguments and reasoning, SEDIA
considers that there is no place for a warning sanction, because there has been no
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

74/212

flagrant, conscious and deliberate compliance with data protection regulations
and of all the articles that are cited in the proposed resolution of the sanction file.
tioner.

 

IV. SUPPLEMENTARY CONSIDERATIONS
By means of an independent document, SEDIA has requested, by virtue of what is established in
article 89.2 of the LPACAP, the practice of the test consisting of making available
position of the SGAD of the following documentation that is considered fundamental
for the exercise of the defense in the sanctioning procedure opened in relation to the
RADAR COVID app:

a) Proposed resolution of the Instructor in relation to the procedure
opened against the MSND by the RADAR COVID application, in order to appreciate the
criteria of the AEPD in relation to the activity carried out by said department.
ment that although it enjoys the same legal personality as SEDIA, it is
treated by the AEPD as a different entity.

b) Full reports of the Legal Office of the AEPD cited that are cited in
the Ninth Legal Basis (17/2020 and 32/2020) of the Proposal for
Resolution, to be able to appreciate it as a whole and accept or refute it according to
be your discretion.

(Italics, bold, and underlining are from SEDIA).

These allegations will be answered in the FD of this Resolution.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Royal Decree 403/2020, of February 25, develops the organizational structure
basic information of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Was published
on February 27, 2020 in the BOE, entering into force on the same day of its publication.
It provides in its article 1 that the METD is responsible for

“Telecommunications policy and for digital transformation, in particular
promoting the digitization of Public Administrations”.

Within this framework, SEDIA has, in accordance with article 8, attributed the functions
of

“the promotion of the digitization of the public sector and the coordination and cooperation
interministerial relationship and with other Public Administrations regarding said
matters, without prejudice to the powers attributed to other departments
ministerial”.

The SGAD, according to article 9, is:

“The governing body to which it corresponds, under the authority of the person in charge
of the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, the direction,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

75/212

coordination and execution of the powers attributed to the Department in
matter of digital transformation of the administration, including the development
and application of Laws 39/2015, of October 1, of the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, and 40/2015, of 1
October, and its regulations, regarding the performance and func-
operation of the public sector by electronic means.”

SECOND: Royal Decree 454/2020, of March 10, which develops the
basic organic structure of the Ministry of Health, and the Royal Decree is modified
139/2020, of January 28, which establishes the basic organic structure of the
ministerial departments was published in the BOE of March 12, 2020. Entered
in force on the same day of its publication in the BOE until August 6, 2020, the date
in which Royal Decree 735/2020 of August 4 came into force.
In its article 1 it provides:

It corresponds to the Ministry of Health, the proposal and execution of the policy
of the Government in matters of health, planning and healthcare, as well as
as the exercise of the powers of the General State Administration
to ensure citizens the right to health protection.

In its article 3 it provides:

1. The General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation is the body
that assumes the functions related to foreign health; the promotion of
health and the prevention of illness and injury; the coordination of the
public health surveillance; (...).
2. It is responsible for the development of information systems, the management of
information and identification of the protected population and access to information
clinical and therapeutic training, the promotion of health plans and training programs
ity in the National Health System, including the National Plan on AIDS,
as well as the analysis and evaluation of the functioning of the health system
storeroom and its comparison with other health systems. (…)”.

THIRD: Royal Decree 463/2020, of March 14, which declares the state
of alarm for the management of the health crisis situation caused by the COVID-
19, in article 4.2.d) designates the Minister of Health as the competent authority de-
legacy in your area of responsibility.
FOURTH: On March 28, 2020, the Order SND/
297/2020, of March 27, by which the Secretary of State for Di-
digitization and Artificial Intelligence, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transformation.
Digital information, the development of various actions for the management of the health crisis
ria caused by COVID-19.
The first solver says:

First. Development of technological solutions and mobile applications for
collection of data in order to improve the operational efficiency of services
health services, as well as the best care and accessibility by citizens.
give us
1. Entrust the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence
of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development
urgent development and operation of a computer application to support the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

76/212

management of the health crisis caused by COVID-19. This application
will at least allow the user to carry out a self-assessment based on the symptoms
doctors you communicate, about the probability that you are infected by the
COVID-19, offer information to the user about COVID-19 and provide the
user practical advice and recommendations of actions to follow according to the
evaluation.
The application will allow the geolocation of the user for the sole purpose of ve-
Verify that you are in the autonomous community in which you declare to be. The
application can include within its content links to portals managed
ned by third parties in order to facilitate access to information and services
available through the Internet.
The application will not constitute, in any case, a medical diagnosis service,
emergency care or prescription of pharmacological treatments. The
The use of the application will not replace in any case the consultation with a pro-
suitably qualified medical professional.
The person responsible for the treatment will be the Ministry of Health and the person in charge of
treatment and owner of the application will be the General Secretariat of Administration
Digital tion. The Ministry of Health, as the controller, authorizes
encourages the General Secretariat of Digital Administration to resort to other
two in the execution of the provisions of this section.
2. Entrust the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence
official, from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development
development of a conversational assistant/chatbot to be used via whatsapp and
other instant messaging applications. Will provide official information
to questions from citizens. The design will be based on information
official from the Ministry of Health.
The person responsible for the treatment will be the Ministry of Health and the person in charge of
treatment and owner of the chatbot will be the Secretary of State for Digitization and
Artificial Intelligence through the General Subdirectorate of Artificial Intelligence
Social and Digital Enabling Technologies.
3. Entrust the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence
official, from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development
Development of an informative website with the technological resources available.

It is verified that the Radar COVID application is not included within the solutions
technology and mobile applications for data collection in order to improve
the operational efficiency of health services given their purpose, which is different: the
contact traceability.
Its purpose is extracted, among others, from:
-The "General Information" provided by the Government of Spain when it indicates: What is
COVID Radar?:

https://radarcovid.gob.es/faq-informacion-general
Radar COVID is a mobile application developed to help control the
spread of COVID-19 through the identification of possible con-
close touches of confirmed cases via Bluetooth technology.

From the Seventh “EXPOSE” of the Resolution of October 13, 2020, of the Undersecretary
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

77/212

which publishes the Agreement between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Digital Transformation and the Ministry of Health, about the application "Radar CO-
VID, which says:
Seventh.
That «Radar COVID» is an application for mobile devices that promotes
monitors public health through a COVID-19 infection alert system
19. The application, through the use of ephemeral random identifiers
that are unrelated to the identity of the mobile phone used or the
user, detects the strength of Bluetooth signals exchanged between devices.
devices that have this application downloaded and active, The device of each
user periodically downloads the Bluetooth keys of all users of
the application that they have informed through the same that they have been diagnosed-
ticated COVID-19 (prior accreditation of the competent health authorities)
tes), proceeding to determine if the user has established risk contact
with any of them, verified by the Bluetooth signals exchanged. Yes it is
case, the application notifies you of this fact, so that you can take me-
didas, and thus help prevent the virus from spreading.

FIFTH: In the month of April 2021, a meeting is held with the purpose of
address the "Design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system that allows the trace-
bility of contacts in relation to the pandemic caused by Covid-19”.
The following people are involved:

Person
DDD
E.E.E.
F.F.F.
GGG
H.H.H.
I.I.I.
J.J.J.
L.L.L.
HMM.
N.N.N.
Ñ.Ñ.Ñ.
O.O.O.
PPP
Q.Q.Q
The issues discussed are:

SEDIA / CCAA / Ministry of Health / Minsait
SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
Ministry of Health
Ministry of Health
SEDIA
Canary Islands Government
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait

The attached document 20200721_Seguimiento SEDIA v5 is presented, where
includes the executive summary of the conclusions of the analysis of the results of the
pilot.

The agreement adopted is:

It is agreed to have ready for next Tuesday 07/28/2020 the list of
actions to be carried out on the app in order to put it into production
imminent, either in a CCAA, city or at the national level. remember too
prepare a descriptive document with a summary of the operation of the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

78/212

app so that the different Autonomous Communities can analyze its operation.

SIXTH: On May 6, 2020, the METD publishes the following press release:

“Spain works at a national and European level for the interoperability of applications
infection prevention measures against COVID-19.

The Third Vice President of the Government and Minister of Economic Affairs and
Digital Transformation, Nadia Calviño, together with the Secretaries of State of Digital
ization and Artificial Intelligence, Carmen Artigas., and Telecommunications and Infra-
Digital Structures, Roberto Sánchez, participated in this meeting to seek
establish a common European position that allows taking advantage of the possibilities that
offers the technology to contribute to the management of the pandemic and the subsequent re-
recovery at European level.

Among these digital solutions, the focus was placed on prevention applications
infection rate. In this sense, Spain highlighted the importance of finding a
coordinated approach at European level for these applications that guarantees the integration
operability and allow for a joint exit from the health emergency.
In addition, the need to take advantage of the potential offered by the economy was pointed out.
digital mine to contribute to the management of the pandemic, being necessary to find
a balance between the benefits derived from these innovations and privacy,
safety and ethical issues. (…)

The Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, Carmen Artigas,
shared with the autonomies the position of Spain at European level, as well as
advances prepared by the European Commission on these digital tools.
The aim is to join efforts and share points of view on the possibilities
existing around the development of these applications and their interoperability,
ing coordinated responses based on the needs of the different territories.
rivers".

SEVENTH: On June 9, 2020, the General Director of Public Health, Cali-
and Innovation of the MSND sent a letter to the Secretary General of Administration
Digital (SGAD) with the following tenor:

“In relation to the pilot test of the mobile application for the traceability of con-
COVID-19 tacts that are planned to be carried out in the Autonomous Community
Canary Islands, I inform you of the approval of this Ministry for its development.

To carry it out, in our opinion, it should be sent to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection all the information that corresponds to ga-
guarantee compliance with current regulations on this matter.

On the other hand, we understand that the person responsible for processing the data of
This pilot will be the health authority of the community in which it will be carried out.
cape.

Appreciating the work being carried out by the Secretary of State for Digitization
tion and Artificial Intelligence in the response to COVID-19, receive a cordial
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

79/212

greeting."

EIGHTH: On June 11, 2020, the already repealed Royal Decree enters into force.
to-law 21/2020, of June 9, on urgent prevention, containment and coordination measures
nation to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19.
Articles 5, 26 and 27, provided:

Article 5. Action plans and strategies to deal with health emergencies.
In accordance with the provisions of article 65 of Law 16/2003, of May 28, of
cohesion and quality of the National Health System, the adoption of
action plans and strategies to deal with health emergencies, through
coordinated actions in public health, attending to the different levels of
risk of exposure and community transmission of COVID-19 disease
for the development of the different activities contemplated in this royal decree-
law.

Article 26. Provision of essential information for the traceability of contacts.
The establishments, means of transport or any other place, center or entity
public or private entity in which the health authorities identify the need
ability to carry out traceability of contacts, they will have the obligation to provide the
health authorities the information they have or that is requested
regarding the identification and contact details of persons potentially
affected.

Article 27. Protection of personal data.

"1. The treatment of personal information that is carried out as con-
sequence of the development and application of this royal decree-law will be
in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament
and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons.
cas with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement
of these data and by which Directive 95/46/CE is repealed, in the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights, and in what is established in articles eight.1 and twenty-three of the Law
14/1986, of April 25, General Health. In particular, the obligations of
training to the interested parties regarding the data obtained by the subjects included
within the scope of application of this royal decree-law shall comply with the provisions
placed in article 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and
of the Council, of April 27, 2016, taking into account the exceptions and obligations
tions provided for in section 5.

2. The purpose of the treatment will be the monitoring and epidemiological surveillance of the
COVID-19 to prevent and avoid exceptional situations of special gravity,
attending to reasons of essential public interest in the specific field of
public health, and for the protection of vital interests of those affected and of other
natural persons under the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016. The data collected
will be used exclusively for this purpose.

3. Those responsible for the treatment will be the autonomous communities, the cities
from Ceuta and Melilla and the Ministry of Health, within the scope of their respective
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

80/212

competencies, which will guarantee the application of the security measures
that result from the corresponding risk analysis, taking into account
that the processing affects special categories of data and that such processing
These procedures will be carried out by public administrations obliged to comply
of the National Security Scheme.

4. The exchange of data with other countries will be governed by Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, having
taking into account Decision No. 1082/2013/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council,
of October 22, 2013, on serious cross-border threats to the
health and the revised International Health Regulations (2005), adopted by the
58th World Health Assembly held in Geneva on May 23, 2005.”

It is verified that this royal decree law does not enable the development of the Radar application
COVID.

NINTH: On June 15, 2020, it was agreed by the Secretary General of the
Digital Administration contracting services for contact traceability
in relation to the pandemic caused by COVID 19 to Indra Tecnologías de la In-
formation S.L.
As stated in the "Condition specifications for the design, development, pilot and evaluation
tion of a system that allows contact tracing in relation to the pandemic
caused by COVID-19” dated June 10 and 12, 2020, section 1 under the
“Background” heading:

Order SND/297/2020, of March 27, of the Minister of Health commissioned the
Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence (SEDIA), of the Ministry
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development of di-
various actions for the management of the health crisis caused by CO-
VID-19.
In particular, said Order establishes in its first resolution, the Development of
technological solutions and mobile applications for data collection
in order to improve the operational efficiency of health services, as well as
the best care and accessibility by citizens.
Additionally, the General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation,
of the General Secretariat of Health (Ministry of Health) has given the Approval
OK to a pilot test of contact tracing in relation to COVID-19,
commissioning SEDIA to develop a mobile application for this purpose.

As stated in the object of the contract, the implementation project would have three phases:
pre-pilot phase, pilot phase and post-pilot phase.
The "Condition specifications for the design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system
that allows contact tracing in relation to the pandemic caused by the co-
vid-19”, accepted by INDRA, includes in the object of the contract the needs to be covered
and among others, the following clauses:

“5.4. Infrastructure in the cloud (cloud).
It will be necessary that the Backend developments be carried out in an infrastructure
in the cloud in self-management mode, to facilitate agility in the development of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

81/212

the solution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, both the storage and any activity of
data processing will be located in the territory of the European Union, whether
These are provided and managed by the successful bidder or by its contractors.
and collaborators, and will be hosted on servers and/or data processing centers
of the successful bidder itself or of its contractors.
…
As far as possible, the use of components in the in-
cloud infrastructure that allow future migration of the solution to the cloud
SARA of the AGE.
6.1. General Confidentiality
The contractor undertakes to guarantee the strictest confidentiality and re-
reserves over any data or information to which it may have access or
made known on the occasion of the execution of the contract, as well as on the requirements
results obtained from their treatment, and that they will only be used for the
achievement of the object of the contract, not being able to communicate, use, or
transfer them to third parties under any circumstances, not even for their conservation. It is-
These obligations extend to all persons who, under the dependency
of the contractor or on their behalf, have been able to intervene in any of the
contract execution sessions.
The obligation of confidentiality and reserve entails that of custody and prevent the
access to the information and documentation provided and to those resulting from their
treatment of any third party outside the contracted service, understanding
as such, both any person outside the contractor company and any other
ra that, even if not, is not authorized to access such information.
Likewise, the contractor undertakes to ensure the integrity of the data,
that is, to the protection of the information provided and that resulting from its processing.
protection against unauthorized modification or destruction of data.
6.2. Personal data protection
The provisions of organic law 3/2018, of December 5, must be complied with.
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights, adapted
ted to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council,
April 27, 2016, and by which Directive 95/46/CE (Regulation
General Data Protection), including the provisions of the additional provision
first of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5 and in the Royal De-
decree 3/2010, of January 8.
In accordance with the first additional provision of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, on Security measures in the public sector, the me-
security measures to be applied within the framework of personal data processing
will correspond to those of the original public administration and will be adjusted
will be assigned to the National Security Scheme.
INDRA INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS will be required to
SLU the express manifestation of submission to national regulations and the
European Union in terms of data protection in accordance with the articles
35.1d and 122.2 of the LCSP modified by article 5 of the Royal Decree Law

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

82/212

14/2019, of October 31, by which urgent measures are adopted for reasons
public security measures in matters of digital administration, contracting of
public sector and telecommunications.
6.3. Security
INDRA SOLUTIONS TECHNOLOGIES OF INFORMATION, SLU implemented
will promote the appropriate technical and organizational security measures and develop
The pertinent documentation will be prepared, in accordance with the corresponding analysis
of risks, as established in Royal Decree 3/2010, of January 8, by
which regulates the National Security Scheme in the field of Administration
electronic nistration.
7 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Without prejudice to the provisions of current legislation on property
intellectual property, the successful bidder expressly accepts that the ownership of all
products that are made by the successful bidder, including its employees and
where appropriate, any subcontracted company, in execution of the Contract and, in
particular, all the intellectual and/or industrial property rights deriving
come from them, corresponds only to the contracting administration,
exclusively and with no limitations other than those imposed by the
legal system.
For the purposes set forth in the preceding paragraph, the successful bidder is comprised of
promises to deliver to the SGAD all the technical documentation, works and
materials generated, in whose possession they will remain at the end of the Contract
without the contractor being able to keep it, or obtain a copy of it, or use it or
provide it to third parties without the express authorization of the SGAD, which would give it, in its
case, prior formal request of the contractor with an expression of the purpose.”

It also includes in ANNEX I the characteristics of the mobile application system and the
backend element in public infrastructure:

ANNEX I. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE MOBILE APPLICATION SYSTEM
1. Start and welcome application: legal notice, informative onboarding, activation
Bluetooth tracking. Use of anonymous Google/Apple SDK and redirection to
generic repository (Backend).

a. Allows the user to transmit and receive random identifiers.
tory via Bluetooth
b. Verification of the authorization code by the health authority
taria before positive for COVID-19. Facing the pilot, as expected
that the service of the health authority is not available, the
validation of the positive that triggers the tracing process and can be
gives to pilot
c. It sends its ephemeral key generator beacon to the server in case of
positive.
d. Informative static screens.
and. Interaction with the google/apple SDK, according to functionality
provided:

 Yo. Manage daily random keys:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

83/212

1. Generate daily temporary exposure keys
them and rotate ephemeral identifiers based on them.
2. Provide the keys to the Backend for diagnostic users
including temporary values.
3. Accept the keys of the App for exposure detection.
tion, including dates and risk levels of
transmission.
4. Store keys on the device.
ii. Manage Bluetooth sending and scanning:

1. Management of sending keys.
2. Scan keys issued by other devices.
3. Store the observed keys in a storage
I lie on the device.
4. Identify when another user in contact has been a
confirmed case.
5. Calculate and provide the risk of exposure to the application
tion.
6. Submit the following permission requests to the user
river:

a. Before you start scanning and sending the keys
you see.
b. Before providing the server with the keys to the server,
central pain after being infected.

2. Communication of positive cases:

a. Enter QR/COVID-19 code (manual, scanner or import)
personal and single use.
b. Confirmation notice QR validated positive: informative screen.
c. Optional questionnaire (if positive): collects anonymous data
basics for your treatment Backend App (zip code, symptomatology
and its date, previous pathologies,…).

3. Risk notification: contact notification with confirmed positive and screen
of recommendations.
4. Application exit: possibility of exiting the application at any
time, removing any trace of ephemeral keys used.
BACKEND ELEMENT IN PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Backend data management

a. Serve information necessary for the operation of the App (if it is
time necessary. Alternatively the App can be self-contained).
b. Validation with the health authorization system before diagnoses
positive (if this system were not available, a Si-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

84/212

simulation of this validation). The application must communicate with a
external server (sanitary) that provides the authorization code that
confirm the positive and can authorize uploading the beacons to the service in
function of the following proposed cycle:

Yo. Medical system requests token/QR authentication to the Backend
to confirm positive COVID-19.
ii. Patient receives token/QR authentication to confirm possi-
tive COVID-19.
iii. Patient sends the authorized token/QR to the Backend to upload
your contact history.

As it is foreseeable that the service of the authority is not available
In the initial scope, the validation of the positive will be simulated
trigger the tracing process so that its functionality can be tested.
birth.

c. Database with centralized information service that allows the tracking
contact trao and beacon management.

Yo. Collect beacons from users who have been diagnosed
of COVID-19.
ii. Distribute beacons of confirmed cases to devices.
iii. Positive authorization service integration.
IV. Integration with Third Party systems. Interoperability study
with Backends from other States to ensure cross-border functionality
dull
2. Security

a. Implementation of controls to prevent specific attacks at the
of application.
b. Securing communications with other devices and systems
sanitary.
c. Anonymization of signals between devices.

3. Simulation: ability to emulate positive COVID-19 response, for purposes of
testing (test tracing behavior).

TENTH: SEDIA has accredited the following certificates issued in favor of IN-
DRA:

o ISO 27018 Certificate of Privacy in the Cloud: Information systems
information that support business processes and information assets
necessary for the provision of IT outsourcing services Admin-
nistration, Support, Exploitation and Infrastructure), both in physical environments
physical and virtualized cloud), according to the statement of applicability
in force on the date of issuance of the certificate.

o ISO 27001 Information Security Management System Certificate.
mation: The information systems that support the processes of ne-
business and information assets necessary for the provision of services

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

85/212

IT outsourcing services Administration, Support, Exploitation and Infra-
structure), both in physical and virtualized cloud environments), according to
the declaration of applicability in force at the date of the audit.
journalism

o STI-0014/2009 Certificate of Technology Service Management System
Information technologies: The SMS of IT outsourcing services
Administration, Support, Exploitation and Infrastructure), both in environments
us physical and virtualized cloud), according to the catalog of services in
vigor. Certificate of the Technology Service Management System of
Information. For the management of the RADAR COVID system, INDRA has
contracted the services of Amazon Web Services INC.

ELEVEN: On June 17, 2020, a meeting of the working group is held.
low interterritorial attended by representatives of the Autonomous Communities of
Andalusia, Aragon, Asturias, Castilla y León, Extremadura, Galicia, Balearic Islands, Is-
the Canary Islands, La Rioja, Madrid, Murcia, Navarra and Valencia and the autonomous city of
Melilla, as well as by the Secretary of State for Digitization and Intelligence
Artificial attend G.G.G., Deputy Director General for the Promotion of Digitization of the Ad-
administration, F.F.F., technical advisor for the development of the application, the technical team
co in charge of application development and R.R.R., Cabinet advisor.
It is stated that:

“…three main objectives of the application: preserve public health, go a
stay ahead of COVID-19 and minimize its economic impact by facilitating
the movement of people. To do this, there are three key moments to keep in mind:
account: the activation of Bluetooth (which allows to preserve the anonymity of the
users), the report of positive diagnoses and the notification to users in
risk of contagion.
(…)
The importance of privacy for the application is also highlighted, guaranteeing
maintaining the anonymity of people at all times, allowing the
app can be deactivated at any time, storing the data for-
decentralized ma only for 14 days or generating the notices in the own
app.
Finally, it explains how the application behaves technically: the telephones
random Bluetooth identifiers are exchanged with us and, with the consent
of the user, the phone loads the history of the last 14 days of keys in the
server. Each phone periodically downloads Bluetooth keys from all
diagnosed people who have reported it and who may have been in
Contact. With this, the contagion alert notifications are sent.”

TWELFTH: There is a document called "Covid-19 App Pilot Design. Pre-
CCAA statement June 17, 2020, prepared by SEDIA.

This defines the key parameters of the Pilot:

a) Duration

• 15 days of active APP

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

86/212

• Tentative start date: Week of June 29.

b) Location:

• San Sebastián de La Gomera (7,921 inhabitants, INE provisional data
01/01/2020), municipality located on the Island of La Gomera.

c) Participants:

• Residents in the municipality captured by different access channels to the pi-
lotus.

• Tourists residing in Tenerife who simulate movement through the municipality
during the pilot.

d) Pilot Scope: Volume of participants

• The greatest possible participation will be promoted by combining different channels
of access to it, estimating a volume between 2,000 and 3,000 users.
rivers of the APP.

• Approximately 10% of cases will be established with COVID Positive
initial simulated, to favor the detection of cases of risk and thus com-
test APP operation.

e) Assessment of compliance with objectives

• Quantitative data analysis

• Qualitative analysis: anonymous surveys and remote user tests (15
users).

It also collects the "Pilot Access Channels" by the participants:

4 access channels to the APP are proposed for controlled participation in the
pilot, to be confirmed with the government of the Canary Islands and the local government of La Gomera

1. Individual direct communication to Public Employees

People who reside in San Sebastián de la Gomera and work as
public employees in different areas and people residing in Tenerife and
can travel as "simulated tourists" to the municipality during the pilot

2. Installing Agents

Team of agents that will promote and help in the download of the APP in
public spaces and citizen service offices in the municipality, enhancing
capturing young people and people over 65 years of age

3. Specific information telephone

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

87/212

Possibility of enabling a telephone to facilitate access to those
citizens of the municipality who are interested in participating, as well as to
possible simulated contagion check

4. Postal mailing

Evaluate the possibility of direct letters or brochures deposited in a physical mailbox
all residents in the municipality to explain the pilot and invite them to participate

THIRTEENTH: There is, dated June 23, 2020, a press release published
published by the METD, with the following tenor:

“The Government approves the development of the pilot for a mobile notification application
tion of risk contacts by COVID-19. (…)

The objective is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation,
through the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, and in
coordination with the Canary Islands Health Service, launch the next series
A pilot test of this technological tool is emerging on the Canary Island of La
Slingshot.

The objective of the pilot is to evaluate technical aspects and user experience
of the citizen, in order to optimize the design of the application and its degree of
bail. It will also serve to calibrate the app's algorithm in order to guarantee
the veracity of the notifications. (…)

Once the pilot test has been completed and evaluated in a real scenario, all
make the appropriate decisions for the connection with the health system of the different
different autonomous communities.

This technological tool is added to the measures already implemented by
health authorities to follow the contacts of COVID-19 infections
and that, together with the preventive measures adopted, are contributing to the con-
pandemic troll. The contract approved by the Council of Ministers by the procedure
emergency assistance has been signed with the company Indra Soluciones Tecnológi-
Cases of Information S.L.U. for an amount of 330,537.52 euros, VAT included.
(…)

Privacy

The development uses a decentralized model, based on the Decentralized protocol.
zed Privacy-Preserving Proximity Tracing (DP-3T), the most respectful of privacy
user city. This implies that only the identifiers are sent to the server.
encrypted that each mobile emits, not those received from other nearby terminals.
From time to time, mobile phones download new contagion identifiers
confirmed to compare with your records. That is, the comparison of data and
risk analysis is always carried out on the user's mobile phone and not on a service.
dor, which guarantees privacy.

This application complies, therefore, with all the guarantees established by the regulations
to safeguard the privacy of citizens. In addition, it guarantees the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

88/212

proportionality and minimizes the use of personal data. The use of the application
will be voluntary and framed within the limits of the health emergency, strictly
compliance with the recommendations of the European Commission in this regard.”

FOURTEENTH: It is recorded, dated June 23, 2020, in the Reference of the Con-
Council of Ministers, the following Agreement:

“AGREEMENT by which reason is taken of the declaration of emergency for the
contracting of the services of design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system
that allows contact tracing in relation to the pandemic caused by
COVID-19, with a duration of 5 months, for an amount of 330,537.52 euros,
VAT included."

“APPROVED THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PILOT FOR A MOBILE APPLICATION
NOTIFICATION OF RISK CONTACTS BY COVID-19.

The Council of Ministers has given the green light to the contract to design, develop and
evaluate a pilot test for a mobile application that allows notifying users
contacts of a user the possible risk of contagion by COVID-19. The objective
is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, through
the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, and in coordination
with the Canary Islands Health Service, launch next week a
pilot test of this technological tool on the Canary Island of La Gomera. The
The objective of the pilot project is to evaluate technical and user experience aspects of the
citizen, in order to optimize the design of the application and its degree of trust.
whoa It will also serve to calibrate the app's algorithm in order to guarantee the
accuracy of notifications. Once the pilot test has been completed and evaluated in
a real scenario, the appropriate decisions can be made for the connection with
the health system of the different autonomous communities. this tool
technology adds to the measures already put in place by the authorities
to follow the contacts of COVID-19 infections and that, together with
the preventive measures adopted, are contributing to the control of the pande-
mine. The contract approved by the Council of Ministers through the emergency procedure
cia has subscribed with the company Indra Soluciones Tecnológicas de la Informa-
tion S.L.U. for an amount of 330,537.52 euros, VAT included.”

FIFTEENTH: On June 29, 2020, it is launched by the Government of Spain
the pilot project that runs until July 31, 2020 on the island of La Gomera.

In the follow-up document dated 07.24.2020, the following phases and
COVID Radar pilot planning dates:

A report of conclusions has been published (https://radar-resources.s3-eu-west-
1.amazonaws.com/28-01-2020-InformeRadarCOVID.pdf) prepared by SEDIA, fe-
dated January 28, 2021, indicating:

The app allows

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

89/212

• Verify the authorization code by the health authority before possible
positive for COVID-19

• Allows the user to transmit and receive random identifiers to
via Bluetooth

• Sends its ephemeral key generating beacon to the server in case of positive

• Ask the server for the anonymous passwords of infected users in a temporary way.
rhodic

• Show notifications to the user with instructions on what to do in case of
who has been in contact with another COVID-19 positive user

Its development is supported by the Google & Apple alliance for the implementa-
mentation of a common API in charge of managing and providing the dis-
positive anonymous random keys and their exchange via bluetooth through
the following functions:

Manage daily random keys

 • Generate daily temporary exposure keys and rotate the
ephemeral ids based on them

• Provides the keys to the application for diagnosed users, including
going temporary values

• Accepts app keys for exposure detection, including-
do the dates and levels of risk of transmission

• Store keys on the device

Manage Bluetooth sending and scanning

• Management of sending keys

• Scan keys issued by other devices

• Stores the observed keys in storage on the device.
tive

• Identifies when another user in contact has been a confirmed case

• Calculation and provides the risk of exposure to the application

• Presents the following permission requests to the user:

• Before you start scanning and sending the keys

• Before providing the server with the keys to the central server after
having been infected G

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

90/212

Objectives and methodology of the pilot

Duration:

• 15 days of active APP (monitoring phases and expansion of monitoring).
torization)

• Start date: Week of June 29 (communication and dissemination phase).
vulgation)

• End date: week of July 20 (conclusions analysis phase)

Location:

San Sebastián de La Gomera (approximately 10,000 inhabitants including
residents, tourists and people who commute daily for reasons of
work), a municipality located on the Island of La Gomera.

Participants

• Residents in the municipality captured by different access channels
to the pilot.

• Visitors residing in Tenerife who traveled to the municipality during
before the pilot, captured by different access channels to the pilot.

Pilot Reach: Volume of participants

• The greatest possible participation will be promoted by combining different
access to it, estimating a volume between 2,000 and
3,000 APP users

• Approximately 10% of cases will be established with Positive in
Simulated COVID, to favor the detection of cases of risk and thus
check APP operation

Assessment of compliance with objectives

• Quantitative data analysis

• Qualitative analysis: anonymous surveys and remote user tests
(15 users)

Pilot Objective

(...) Thus, the objective of the pilot was to monitor the operation of the APP of
controlled way to:

1. Optimize the APP design (...)

2. Behaviors and preferences regarding prevention of citizens

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

91/212

we (...)

3. Contrast initial hypotheses (...)

4. Obtain insights for the deployment (...)

Scope

As mentioned above, the pilot has been planned from a
simulated and controlled perspective, so that conclusions can be drawn
of value with respect to its operation, use and behavior by the
citizenship, but limits the collection of data in relation to some aspects:

Open discharge vs controlled discharge

Although at first the possibility of controlling access to
the download of the application exclusively to the target audience of the pilot, resi-
residents, workers or visitors to San Sebastián de la Gomera, it was decided to fi-
  due to 3 key factors
 leave it open
 
finally
 
 
 :

 • Complexity of implementation.

• Negative impact on usability by citizens by having to in-
Enter access codes for the download.

• Incorporate a factor unrelated to the application's own operation in the sub-
post national deployment.

Privacy vs qualified information.

The pilot has followed the same premise that governs the application itself, the
guarantee of protection of personal data and anonymity in the use of Radar
COVID.

Along these lines, aggregated information has been collected from the users of the application.
cation, both of the people who downloaded it, and of the people
who assumed the role of Positive Cases or received alert notifications of
risk of contagion.

This aggregate information prevents obtaining behavioral information or by
more qualified profiles of citizens, as well as a sociological analysis of
spread of the virus.

Simulation vs Reality

The pilot strategy was based on a simulation of positive cases by
of volunteers who entered the code assigned to them, creating by
both a fictitious and forced propagation outbreak that does not allow analysis of (sic)
actual spread of the disease that would be monitored by the app.

Methodology.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

92/212

Pilot approach.

• Get the largest number of users possible, enabling different channels
of access to participation by the target citizens of the pilot.

• Incorporate participants from different population profiles to detect facilita-
different drivers and barriers to use.

• Prioritize checking the functionality and user experience of the APP
simulating a high volume of positive cases (10% of the estimate of
user population of the APP during the pilot) that would favor the generation of
pilot evaluation key KPIs, but maintaining an incident rate
epidemiologically reasonable predicted cumulative incidence
(2.2%).

• Maintain control of positive cases and introduction of codes in the
APP, limiting access only to controlled samples.

• Obtain direct feedback from pilot users to optimize the design.
No.

Monitoring and agility in decision making

In order to have continuous information on the evolution of the dis-
pilot indicators of success and redirect its focus if necessary
To achieve the final objective, different reporting tools were created and
control, which would make it possible to incorporate the data collected anonymously and
luntaria:

• Daily registration template for participants recruited by promoters,
collecting aggregated information on sex and age from the group of
sonas captured in each day of promotion.

• Daily template for the delivery of positive codes by promoters,
also providing aggregated information on the sex and age of the persons
which was assigned the role of positive volunteer.

• Daily call log template in CAU, according to the reason for the call.
madam

• Daily call content record template due to risk of aller-
ta, for which a call script was created.

• Global dashboard of key indicators of participants, codes
payments, notifications and other information specified in the paragraphs
do of conclusions.

The continuous monitoring of the information allowed to make agile decisions
such as the displacement of promoters to new areas in the face of possible saturation
ration of the initial areas or the incorporation of a new wave of infections
in shipping company

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

93/212

Results of the pilot Methodology for evaluating the effectiveness of Radar CO-
VINE

The relevant questions to evaluate the effectiveness of Radar COVID are:

User behavior and attitude towards the application, evaluating whether it has
served the purpose of Radar COVID based on:

Adoption Is Radar COVID achieving enough critical mass to be effective?
Are new versions of the app adopted?

Commitment and participation Is the user motivated and complies with the instructions?
n that facilitate the containment of the pandemic? Are you fast on the fulfillment
of the instructions? How positive is the photo when contrasted with initiatives?
Are you comparable in Europe?

Retention

Once installed, does the user continue with the application active and in use or, for
On the contrary, you lose interest and turn it off? Application performance in the
detection of the risk of contagion among citizens:

Outbreak Simulation How many close contacts can Ra-
give COVID for each positive case confirmed through the app?

Results that allow evaluating the effectiveness of Radar COVID

Adoption

Has a level of adoption been reached that allows conclusions to be drawn?
operation and effectiveness of Radar COVID?

The level of adoption achieved during the pilot has made it possible to verify the
operation of the application and test its effectiveness in positive cases of CO-
VID-19, although its result cannot be extrapolated to the national deployment, having
had a very high and targeted promotion level in the municipality.

At the end of the pilot, more than 58,000 downloads had been achieved.
such, 90% on Android, and only in the period of direct activation in San Se-
Bastián de la Gomera, between July 6 and 20, the figure is around 11,000
downloads.

Due to the limitations indicated in the previous section, it is not feasible to differentiate
how many of these downloads belong to SS de La Gomera to confirm the
target forecast of approximately 3,500 downloads in the municipality
which would represent 35% adoption, although some estimates can be made
information that would confirm having reached the desired threshold, being con-
servants in the forecast:

• “Assisted” downloads: 924. Downloads that have been carried out successfully.
made by the promoting agents located both in the municipality of SS de
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

94/212

La Gomera as in the collaborating boats in the pilot.

• Public employees: The participation of 758 public employees was encouraged
of the 3 institutional spheres (La Gomera SS City Council, Cabildo
of La Gomera and Health Services) and they were invited to also promote
download it in your closest environment.

• If we assume that the participation rate is similar to the rate obtained from in-
introduction of positive codes (61%) and that each public employee shares it
met with an average of 3 people from his closest environment, we obtain a
participation promoted by this group of some 1,850 users of the application
tion.

• Spontaneous participation: If we consider that dissemination campaigns and
promotion of the initiative carried out through press conferences, informative notes,
activities, activity in social networks and information available in the planes of
the BINTER company, will arouse the interest of the population of the municipality and
agreed on a voluntary discharge of at least 2% of the population, it was
they would have gotten an additional 200 downloads.

• Web downloads of the Government of the Canary Islands: 241 clicks have been recorded on the link
direct download ce on the web; we estimate that all clicks have materialized
discharge 66 With these estimates, it can be concluded that the al-
discharge rate stands at 3,215 and therefore has made it possible to evaluate the
cacia and operation of Radar COVID, since the real final figure we estimate
that can be between this minimum threshold of 3,215 and 11,675 downloads
that have occurred during the duration of the pilot. It is worth noting that the rate
of adoption is especially high, considering additionally that, of the
10,000 inhabitants of San Sebastián de La Gomera, approximately 10%
of the population is under 10 years of age (lower age limit considered
rada to have a smartphone and 11% are people over 75 years old where
there could be a lower penetration rate of these devices, following the
population distribution published by the INE corresponding to January 1,
2020 for the whole of the island of La Gomera. Extrapolating to the whole
national population at the time of global deployment, it will be difficult to get
this rate of adoption, although with a view to the pilot it has made it possible to carry out the analyzes
necessary for the operation of the app.

SIXTEENTH: There is a document called “COVID Radar. Secretary General
General of Digital Administration. General operation. Madrid, June 2020” where the
SEDIA reports the following:

Covid-19 app strategy
Objectives of the app
• Preserve public health without giving up the privacy of citizens
• Be one step ahead of Covid-19: alerting people at risk is containing
the virus proactively
• Minimize the economic impact of Covid-19, by controlling the pandemic without
drastic measures and facilitating the movement of people

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

95/212

the key moments
• Bluetooth activation
• Report of positive diagnoses
• Notification to users at risk of contagion
Focus on privacy
The app has a data management process with privacy by design.
year, ensuring at all times the anonymity of users, according to the norm
current regulations and European standards.
The privacy measures contemplated in the first version of the solution
are the following:
• No login is required, nor is the user asked for any personal data to be identified.
captive or not
• The user can deactivate the app whenever he wants
• In order to record the interactions between devices in an anonymized way,
generate changing random identifiers that preserve the identity of
the devices
• Access to the data of said interactions is made only when
a new positive COVID-19 is diagnosed or when the Medical Service
consider necessary
• The data is stored in a decentralized manner for a period of 14
days, after which they are deleted
• Notifications to users exposed to Covid-19 are generated in the
app, without requiring to identify the user's device or phone number

It also contains the "Functional description of the app" and the "Operation of the alerts".
Bluetooth contagion rates”.

SEVENTEENTH: There is a document called “Radar COVID. Tracing:
07.17.2020”, prepared by SEDIA together with the Canary Islands Health Service, the Government
of the Canary Islands, the Government of the Cabildo of La Gomera and the City Council of San Sebas-
tián de La Gomera where the following is reported:

What do we observe daily?
Citizen behavior
Radar COVID Accumulated Downloads: 54,591

• There are more than 54,000 downloads nationwide, 94% on Android
• Of the almost 10,000 downloads since the beginning of the pilot, our pro-

engines have confirmed 924 downloads, plus 59 on the web

• Unloading has been promoted among 758 volunteers or public employees.

cos

And regarding the Action Plan Phase 3- Week 20 to 27 July
Analyzing data and drawing conclusions, says:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

96/212

EIGHTEENTH
 : On July 21, 2020, a meeting is held that has
 
Its purpose is the “Design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system that allows the tra-
reliability of contacts in relation to the pandemic caused by Covid-19”.
Attend:

Person
DDD
E.E.E.
F.F.F.
GGG
S.S.S.
TTT
H.H.H.
I.I.I.
L.L.L.
HMM.
N.N.N.
Ñ.Ñ.Ñ.
O.O.O.
Q.Q.Q

SEDIA / CCAA / Ministry of Health / Minsait
SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
Canary Islands Government
SEDIA
Ministry of Health
Ministry of Health
Canary Islands Government
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait

Issues discussed:
The attached document is presented 20200717_SEDIA Monitoring v13.PPTX
where the advances in the COVID Radar pilot are collected.
Agreements adopted:
It is agreed to present a complete report to the next monitoring committee.
with the analysis of the conclusions that have been drawn from the execution already

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

97/212

end of the pilot on the island of La Gomera.

NINETEENTH: There is a document called “Radar COVID. Tracing:
07.24.2020” prepared by SEDIA together with the Canary Islands Health Service, the Government of
Canary Islands, the Government of the Cabildo de La Gomera and the City Council of San Sebastián
of La Gomera, where the following is reported:

Escalation and integration with Health Services

After compiling proposals from the Autonomous Communities, we opted
by a centralized code generation scheme and decentralized management
zada

Analysis of data

The results of the pilot have been analyzed based on:

Degree of adoption and retention

Participation and simulation of waves

Close contact detection

user feedback

Pilot results. What conclusions do we draw about the success of the pi-
lotus?

Users continue to use Radar COVID once installed, such as
shows the log of active apps: 12,700 active apps on average, with
a variation of +/-5% between its highs and lows (13,417 and 12,116)

Radar COVID is effective detecting close contacts since its recalibration
on July 15*, by being able to detect contacts of people close to the user
and strangers

Regarding the "Simulation of the COVID Radar Application outbreak: final data"
reports:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

98/212

What useful recommendations or lessons can we extract in the face of a study?
national draft?

Analysis:
•

Instrumentation for anonymous data collection to analyze the de-
Radar COVID performance more accurately than anonymity
current total facilitates.

• Calibrated: track aggregate statistics and calls to the call center
for calibration of Bluetooth weights in order to avoid generating so-
brealert without giving up a useful volume of contact notifications is-
generated stretch.

TWENTIETH: On July 27, 2020, a meeting is held with the purpose of
the "Design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system that allows the traceability of
contacts in relation to the pandemic caused by Covid-19”.
They include as attendees:

Person

DDD
E.E.E.
F.F.F.
GGG
H.H.H.
I.I.I.
J.J.J.
L.L.L.
HMM.

SEDIA / CCAA / Ministry of Health / Minsait

SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
Ministry of Health
Ministry of Health
SEDIA
Canary Islands Government
Minsait

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/212

Person

N.N.N.
Ñ.Ñ.Ñ.
O.O.O.
PPP
Q.Q.Q

Issues discussed:

SEDIA / CCAA / Ministry of Health / Minsait

Minsait
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait

The attached document 20200721_Seguimiento SEDIA v5 is presented, where
includes the executive summary of the conclusions of the analysis of the results of the
pilot.

Agreements adopted:

It is agreed to have the list of ac-
tions to be carried out on the app with a view to its imminent production
you, either in a CCAA, city or at the national level. It is also remembered to prepare
Create a descriptive document with a summary of how the app works
so that the different CCAA can analyze its operation.

TWENTY-FIRST: There is a document called “Radar COVID. Follow-up
project document 07.31.2020”, where SEDIA defines the launch activities re-
recommended for the roll out:

TWENTIETH
  SECOND
 
 
press:

 : On August 3, 2020, the METD publishes this note of

“The Radar COVID contagion alert mobile application passes its testing phase.
bas fulfilling all the objectives set. (…)
This is what the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence has explained.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

100/212

officer, Carmen Artigas, at a press conference in which she shared the results
ted obtained during the pilot. Along with it, A.A.C., di-
General Director of Public Health and Innovation of the Ministry of Health, A.A.D.,
General Director of Modernization and Quality of Services of the Government of Ca-
narias, G.G.G., deputy director general of the Promotion of Digitalization of the Administration
tration, and F.F.F., technical advisor to the project.”
Adoption, engagement, retention and performance success.
The test started on June 29 and has been developed until this past
July 31, time during which four waves of fictitious outbreaks have been simulated.
COVID-19 tices. During its development, and despite the fact that it only worked in the
island of La Gomera, more than 60,000 people downloaded the app throughout Spain.
The first objective of the pilot was to precisely evaluate the adoption of the
tool, that is, the number of people who would download it, and a target was set
goal of 3,000 participants for La Gomera, a goal that has been exceeded according to
the data obtained during the test.
A second objective was to measure retention, referring to the number of
users who kept the app active after downloading it. The re-
The results, also satisfactory, point to an average retention rate of 83%
zada.
In addition, the commitment of users in the communication of positions was analyzed.
fictitious assets, achieving 61% of active communications, of which 78%
occurred within 24 hours of receiving the contagion code if-
mulatto.
Another of the objectives outlined in the pilot was to measure the operation of the app
in contact tracing, achieving an average of 6.4 close contacts of
risk detected by confirmed simulated positive. That figure is almost double
current efficiency of manual tracers, which in the Canary Islands detect a
average of 3.5 contacts. (…)

TWENTY-THIRD: On August 5, 2020, a meeting is held to
Its purpose is the "Design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system that allows the
traceability of contacts in relation to the pandemic caused by Covid-19”.
They include as attendees:

Person

DDD
Ms. F.F.F.
GGG
V.V.V.
I.I.I.
W.W.W.
X.X.X.
HMM.

SEDIA / CCAA / Ministry of Health / Minsait

SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
Ministry of Health
CCAES
CCAES
Minsait

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

101/212

Person

N.N.N.
Ñ.Ñ.Ñ.
O.O.O.
Y.Y.Y.
Q.Q.Q

SEDIA / CCAA / Ministry of Health / Minsait

Minsait
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait

Agreements adopted:
It is agreed to have the app ready by Monday 08/10/2020 introducing the changes
discussed in the attached documents facilitating an emergency exit in the short
deadline to those Autonomous Communities that request it and continue advancing in the development of the ver-
sions for departure nationwide.
TWENTY FOURTH: On August 5, 2020, it is published in the Official Gazette
of the State the Royal Decree 735/2020, of August 4, by which the es-
basic organic structure of the Ministry of Health, and the Royal Decree is modified
139/2020, of January 28, which establishes the basic organic structure of the
ministerial departments.
In the preamble of royal decree 735/2020, it is said:

“(…) In order to effectively undertake these new measures, as well as
in order to cope with the increased workload in the Ministry
of Health as a result of the pandemic caused by COVID-19, it is necessary to
It would be necessary to reinforce the structure of said Department. For this reason, through the Real
Decree 722/2020, of July 31, which modifies the Royal Decree
2/2020, of January 12, by which the ministerial departments are restructured
rials, the creation of a new Secretary of State for Health was established,
with the aim of strengthening the exercise of competences in matters of
constitutionally reserved to the General Administration of the State
do.

By means of this royal decree, the structure of the
Ministry of Health, contemplating the creation of the General Secretariat of
Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the National Health System, of the
which will depend on the General Directorate of Digital Health and Information Systems
tion for the National Health System, with the aim of addressing the projects
modernization, improvement and transformation of the National Health System,
in light of the new challenges arising from the pandemic caused by CO-
VID-19, and in particular those related to digital health, interoperability
and network services at a national, European and international level, as well as
health information systems, promoting the incorporation of
features of emerging next-generation technologies, such as
data analysis (“big data”), artificial intelligence or predictive analytics,
among others, in the field of health.”

Likewise, the first final provision of Royal Decree 735/2020 provides:

“Modification of Royal Decree 139/2020, of January 28, which establishes
establishes the basic organic structure of the ministerial departments.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

102/212

Article 16 of Royal Decree 139/2020, of January 28, is modified by the
which establishes the basic organic structure of the ministerial departments
rials, which is worded as follows:

«Article 16. Ministry of Health.

1. The Ministry of Health is structured into the following superior bodies and
directors:

A) The Secretary of State for Health, on which the following bodies depend
managerial gains:

1. The General Directorate of Public Health.

2. The General Directorate of the Common Portfolio of Services of the National System
of Health and Pharmacy.

3rd The General Directorate of Professional Regulation.

4th The Government Delegation for the National Plan on Drugs, with rank
of General Management.

B) The General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the System
National Health Department, with the rank of Undersecretary, on which the Di-
General Directorate of Digital Health and Information Systems for the
National Health.

C) The Undersecretariat for Health, to which the General Technical Secretariat depends.
nica.

2. The General Secretariat for Health and Consumer Affairs and the Secretariat
General Health Office, as well as the General Directorate of Public Health, Ca-
Quality and Innovation and the General Directorate of the Basic Portfolio of Services of the
National Health and Pharmacy System.”

The functions of the DGSP are stated in article 3 of Royal Decree 735/2020, which states:

1. The General Directorate of Public Health is the body that assumes the func-
nes relating to foreign health; health promotion and prevention of
illnesses and injuries; coordination of public health surveillance;
(...).

It is verified that the provision contained in Royal Decree 454/2020, of 10
March, in article 3.2 regarding that "It is responsible for the development of
of information, the management of information and the identification of the protected population.
gives and access to clinical and therapeutic information”, is now attributed to the SGSDII
in article 7.1 of royal decree 735/2020, which says:

Article 7. The General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the
National system of health.

1. The General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the System
The National Health Institute is the governing body of the Department responsible for
It is necessary to address projects of modernization, innovation, improvement and transformation
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

103/212

mation of the National Health System in light of the new challenges arising
of the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly those related to digital health
such and information systems. Also, it is up to you to carry out
activities aimed at transferring innovation and advances in research
tion to the National Health System, without prejudice to the powers conferred
given to the Ministry of Science and Innovation and to the autonomous communities. You
It also corresponds to the elaboration of information systems, the
information management and identification of the protected population and access
so to clinical and therapeutic information. It is also responsible for the control of the
health information, in the area of competence of the Department
 
 .

The following competencies are verified in favor of the SGSDII attributed in the paragraphs
d) and j) of article 7.4 of Royal Decree 735/2020:

d) Carry out the necessary actions for the development and maintenance of the System.
topic of Health Information of the National Health System defined in the chapter
Title V of Law 16/2003, of May 28, on cohesion and quality of the National System
National Health Service, guaranteeing its standardization, comparability, transparency and
accessibility within the legal framework of personal data protection. (…)

j) Coordinate and supervise the data protection policy in compliance with the
regulations applicable to this matter within the scope of the powers of the Department
ment.

It is verified that the SGSDII does not intervene in the development of the pilot project since
It is created with Royal Decree 735/2020, of August 4.

TWENTY FIFTH: In the initial version of the "Privacy Policy of the Application
Radar COVID” published on August 7, 2020 together with version 1.0 of the application.
cation Radar COVID (pilot version), contains the following information:

Please read this privacy policy for users of the website carefully.
mobile application "Radar COVID" (or the "Application"), where you can find
all information about the data we use, how we use it and what it contains
troll you have on them.

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT:

The USER is warned that the use of the Application DOES NOT CONSTITUTE
YOU DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES A MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS SERVICE,
EMERGENCY CARE OR TREATMENT PRESCRIPTION
PHARMACOLOGICAL, since the use of the Application could not in any way
replace the personal face-to-face consultation with a medical professional
duly qualified.
1. What is COVID Radar?
Radar COVID is an application for mobile devices of alert of conta-
SARS-CoV-2 virus, whose HOLDER is the General Secretariat of Admi-
Digital Administration, dependent on the Secretary of State for Digitization and
Artificial Intelligence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transformation
Digital.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

104/212

Thanks to Radar COVID, those users who have downloaded the app-
tion and accept its use will receive a notification in the event that in the fourteen
days prior to that notification have been exposed to an epidemic contact
myological (less than two meters and more than 15 minutes) with another user (all
anonymous) who has declared in the application to have given a result
do positive in the COVID 19 test (prior accreditation of the authorities
sanitary). The application will inform you exclusively about the day (within
those previous fourteen) in which exposure to contact
but not about the identity of the user to whom it has been exposed (information
tion impossible as it is an application that does not request, use or store data from
personal character of the users) nor the identification of the device of this, nor
about the time or place where the exposure occurred.
Once a notification is received, the application will provide the exposed user with information
tion for the adoption of preventive and assistance measures, to contribute
thus to contain the spread of the virus.
The success of the application as a tool that contributes to the containment of
spread is directly linked to users being aware,
and act accordingly, that, despite communicating to the application
that a positive result has been obtained in the COVID 19 test (prior
accreditation of the health authorities) is voluntary, not communicating it and
being a mere receiver of information from third-party users makes the application
tion loses its preventive usefulness not only for other users but for the
rest of the general population. The completely anonymous character should
encourage, without a doubt, the exercise of this responsible action.
2. How does the app work?
Once you have downloaded the application, accept the conditions of
use and privacy policy and start using it, your mobile device generates
will generate each day a pseudo-random identifier called an "exposure key".
temporary” with a size of 16 characters (16 bytes or 128 bits) that will serve
to derive the “Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers” that are exchanged
with other nearby mobile phones that also have the app downloaded.
RadarCOVID cation.
"Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers" are pseudo-random codes with a
size of 16 characters (16 bytes, or 128 bits), which are generated by your phone
mobile every 10-20 minutes, based on the daily “temporary exposure code”.
These codes do not contain personal information that allows the user to be identified.
mobile phone or the user thereof. These “Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers”
are transmitted by your mobile phone several times per second to devices
nearby, accessible through Bluetooth Low Energy, producing an inter-
changing random codes between devices so they can be stored
ned by nearby phones that have downloaded the app. same
way, every five minutes, your mobile phone will listen to the effective identifiers
Bluetooth devices that are transmitted by other mobile phones that have
the application and will store them to calculate if you have been with another user con-
infected with COVID-19 in the last 14 days.
Your phone stores the temporary exposure keys that you have generated in
the last 14 days. Remember that these keys are randomly generated and not
They serve to identify your mobile phone or its USER.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

105/212

If you have received a positive diagnosis for COVID-19, you can enter volunteers
maryly in the application the "single-use confirmation code" that you
will facilitate your Public Health Service and that will be validated on our server.
At that time, the application will ask for your consent to send to
our server the last 14 temporary exposure keys stored in
your phone, therefore, only if you lend it, these will be sent to the application server.
cation that, after verifying the accuracy of the code, will serve to compose
Have a daily list of keys for temporary exposure of infected people
by COVID-19 that are downloaded daily from the server by all
the Radar COVID applications that are in operation.
The information in these listings is used so that on your own phone you can
check if you have had close contact (less than two meters and more than 15
minutes) with people who have reported a COVID-19 infection, without identity.
tify neither the person, nor the place of exposure, nor the mobile device, nor any-
any personal information about you or the other person. That is, the application downloads
voluntarily shared temporary exposure keys periodically
by users diagnosed by COVID-19 of the server, to compare them
with the random codes recorded in the previous days as a result of
contacts with other users. If a match is found, the application
runs an algorithm on the device that, based on the duration and distance
estimated contact, and according to the criteria established by the
health authorities, decides whether to display a notification on the device
of the user exposed to the risk of contagion, warning him of the contact, communication
giving him the date of the same and inviting him to self-isolate, and contact the
health authorities.
These keys sent to the server do not allow the direct identification of the
users and are necessary to guarantee the correct functioning of the system.
contagion alert ma
3. What data do we process about you?
The data handled by the application does not allow the direct identification of the
user or your device, and are only those necessary for the sole purpose of information
Mars that you have been exposed to a situation of risk of contagion by the
COVID-19, as well as to facilitate the possible adoption of preventive measures
and assistance.
In no case will the movements of USERS be tracked, excluding
thus any form of geolocation.
As part of the COVID-19 contagion alert system, data will be processed
the following data for users who have tested positive for COVID-19
for the purposes specified below:
The temporary exposure keys with which the user's device has generated
generated the random codes sent (Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers), to
devices with which the user has come into contact, up to a maximum
mo of the previous 14 days. These keys have nothing to do with the identity
entity of the USER, and are uploaded to the server so that they can be downloaded
by similar applications held by other users. With these keys,
through a processing that takes place in the mobile phone in a descending way.
processed, the USER can be warned about the risk of contagion for having
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

106/212

been in recent contact with a person who has been diagnosed with
COVID-19, without the application being able to derive your identity or the place where
contact took place.
A 12-digit one-time confirmation code provided by the authorities
health authorities in case of a positive test for COVID-19. This code must
be informed by the user to allow the voluntary loading of passwords
server exposure.
Voluntary questionnaire to collect information on the experience of
use of the application, understanding of it or perception of privacy
dad among others.
All information will be collected for strictly public interest purposes.
the field of public health, and in the event of a health emergency, decrees
tada, in order to protect and safeguard an interest essential to the lives of the
people, in the terms described in this privacy policy.
The applicable legislation is listed below:
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and
the free movement of these data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
(General Data Protection Regulation).
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights.
Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health
Organic Law 3/1986, of April 14, on Special Measures in the Matter of
Public health.
Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.
Royal Decree 463/2020 of March 14, declaring the state of
alarm for the management of the health crisis situation caused by CO-
VID-19 that attributes to the Minister of Health the necessary competence in all
the national territory.
Ministerial Order SND/297/2020 of March 27, entrusting the
the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, of the Ministry
of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development of new ac-
tuations for managing the health crisis caused by COVID-19.
4. How do we obtain and where does your data come from?
The positive confirmation code for COVID-19 provided by the Service
Health Public. This will allow the upload to the server of the alert system of
contagions the temporary exposure keys with which the user's device
rio has generated the random codes sent (ephemeral identifiers Blue-
tooth), to the devices with which the user has come into contact, up to
a maximum of 14 previous days. These keys are only uploaded to the server
dor with the explicit and unequivocal consent of the USER, having entered
duced a positive confirmation code for COVID-19.
5. For what and why do we use your data?

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

107/212

The collection, storage, modification, structuring and, where appropriate, elimination
nation, of the data generated, will constitute treatment operations carried out
carried out by the Holder, in order to guarantee the correct functioning
use of the App, maintain the service provision relationship with the User.
rio, and for the management, administration, information, provision and improvement of the service
vice.
The information and data collected through the Application will be treated with
purposes strictly of public interest in the field of public health, given the
current health emergency situation as a result of the pandemic
of COVID-19 and the need for its control and spread, as well as to gain
guarantee your vital interests or those of third parties, in accordance with the regulations
current data protection.
For this purpose, we use your data to provide you with the "Radar COVID" service and
so that you can make use of its functionalities in accordance with its conditions.
tions of use. In accordance with the General Regulation for the Protection of
Data (RGPD) as well as any applicable national legislation, the
General Secretariat of Digital Administration will treat all the data generated
while using the App for the following purposes:
Offer you information on contacts considered to be at risk of exposure to
the COVID-19.
Provide you with practical advice and recommendations for actions to follow
According to situations of risk in the face of quarantine or self-quarantine,
I had
This treatment will be carried out through the alert functionality of
contagion that allows to identify situations of risk for having been in
close contact with users of the application who are
infected by COVID-19. In this way you will be informed of the measures
which should be adopted later.
6. How long do we keep your data?
Temporary Exposure Keys and Ephemeral Bluetooth Identifiers
are stored on the device for a period of 14 days, after the
which are eliminated.
Likewise, the temporary exhibition keys that have been communicated to the
server by USERS diagnosed as positive for COVID-19 also
They will also be removed from the server after 14 days.
In any case, neither the temporary exposure keys nor the ephemeral identifiers
Bluetooth ros contain personal data and do not allow identifier
users' mobile phones.
7. Who has access to your data?
Neither the “Radar COVID” application nor the contagion alert server store
personal data of any kind.
The data managed by the mobile application (daily exposure keys
temporary and ephemeral Bluetooth identifiers) are stored only in the
user's device for the purpose of being able to make calculations and derive reports
the USER about their risk of exposure to COVID-19.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

108/212

Only in the case of reporting a positive diagnosis for COVID-19, the keys
of temporary exposure of the last 14 days generated on the device, and
under the explicit and unequivocal consent of the USER, are uploaded to the ser-
viewer for dissemination to all USERS of this system.
These keys have nothing to do with the identity of the devices
mobile phones or with personal data of the USERS of the Application.
8. What are your rights and how can you control your data?
Since the Radar COVID app does not store personal data, they are not
of application the rights of access, rectification, deletion, limitation, oppo-
position and portability, as well as not to be subject to decisions based solely on
mind in the automated processing of your data.
In any case, we are obliged to indicate that we assist you at all times.
the right to file a claim with the Spanish Protection Agency
Information Data (www.aepd.es).
9. How do we protect your data?
The Radar COVID system does not store personal data.
In any case, the security measures implemented correspond to the
provided for in Annex II (Security measures) of Royal Decree 3/2010, of 8
of January, which regulates the National Security Scheme in the field of
of the Electronic Administration.
Finally, we inform you that both the storage and the rest of the
Non-personal data processing activities used will always be
located within the European Union.
10. What is the legitimacy for the treatment of your data?
The generated data will be treated legitimately with the following legal bases-
them:
The free, specific, informed and unequivocal consent of the user of the
USER, making this privacy policy available to you, which
You must accept by marking the box provided for this purpose.
Reasons of public interest in the field of public health, such as the protection
against serious cross-border threats to health (article 9.2 i) of the
RGPD), for the treatment of health data (for example, the state of
an infected person or information about symptoms, etc.).
Fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
public powers conferred on the data controller (article 6.1 e)
GDPR).
Archive purposes of public interest, scientific or historical research purposes
or statistical purposes (article 9.2 j) RGPD).
The Owner of the Application may give access or transmit the data to third parties
service providers, with whom it has signed agreements to order
data processing, and that they only access said information to
provide a service in favor of and on behalf of the Controller.
11. What do you have to take into account especially when using "Radar COVID"?
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

109/212

You must take into account certain aspects related to the minimum age of
use of the Application, the quality of the data you provide us, as well
such as uninstalling the Application on your mobile device.
Minimum age of use: to be able to use "Radar COVID" you have to be
over 18 years of age or have the authorization of your parents and/or legal guardians.
them. Therefore, by registering in the Application, you guarantee the Owner that you are
older than that age or, otherwise, that you have the aforementioned autho-
torization
Quality of the data you provide us: the information you provide us in
the use of the Application services must always be real, truthful and es-
updated tar.
Uninstallation of the Application: in general, there can be two situations in
those that proceed to the technical deactivation of the Application on your device:
1) that you do it voluntarily, and 2) that the Holder proceeds to the
technical deactivation of the Application on your device (e.g. in cases where
that we detect that you have breached the conditions of use of the Application).
12. Cookie Policy
We only use technical cookies that allow the user to navigate and
the use of the different options or services offered in the Application
tion, such as accessing restricted access areas or using electronic elements.
safety measures during navigation.
I have read the document PRIVACY POLICY OF THE APPLICATION "Ra-
give COVID.”

TWENTY SIXTH: In the initial version of the "Conditions of Use of Radar COVID"
contains the following information:

Radar COVID TERMS OF USE

BY DOWNLOADING AND USING THE “Radar COVID” MOBILE APPLICATION MANI-
PARTIES THAT YOU HAVE READ AND ACCEPT THESE TERMS OF USE AND
THE PRIVACY POLICY. HERE IS ALL THE INFORMATION
REGARDING YOUR RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS AS A USER OF
THIS APPLICATION.

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT:

• The USER is warned that the use of the Application DOES NOT CONS-
IN NO CASE DOES IT CERTIFY A MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS SERVICE, OF
EMERGENCY CARE OR TREATMENT PRESCRIPTION
PHARMACOLOGICAL, since the use of the Application could not in any way
replace the personal face-to-face consultation with a medical professional
duly qualified.

1. What is COVID Radar

Radar COVID is an application that promotes public health through a
COVID-19 infection alert system, making available to
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

110/212

USERS (hereinafter, individually, the "USER", and jointly the
"USERS"), the possibility of browsing the Application, accessing the
contents and services of Radar COVID, in accordance with these CONDITIONS.
TIONS OF USE.

Radar COVID detects the strength of Bluetooth signals exchanged between
devices that have this active application, through the use of identifiers
ephemeral random factors, unrelated to the identity of the phone.
mobile phone employee or the USER. The device of each USER downloaded
Periodically generate the Bluetooth keys of all the USERS of the application.
tion that they have reported through the same that they have been diagnosed
COVID-19 (prior accreditation of the health authorities), proceeding to
determine if the USER has established risk contact with any of the
them, verified by the Bluetooth signals exchanged. If this is the case, the
cation notifies you of this fact, so that you can take action, and contribute
Build in this way to prevent the virus from spreading.

2. Use of COVID Radar

To use the Radar COVID services, it is a necessary requirement that
the USER authorizes the activation of the Bluetooth communications system of
low energy by the Application, after downloading it.

The USER accepts without reservation the content of these CONDITIONS
OF USE. Consequently, the USER must carefully read the same
more before accessing and using any Radar COVID service
under your entire responsibility.

IMPORTANT NOTICE: The use of the Application is free, free and voluntary.
would for all citizens. To use Radar COVID it is not necessary to be-
be registered, nor provide any personal, identifying or non-identifying data.
By activating the application, the USER accepts:

a) sending anonymously emitted Bluetooth signals by your device;

b) the reception and storage of Bluetooth signals from applications
compatible with Radar COVID, which are kept anonymous and decentralized
stored on USERS' devices for a period not exceeding 14
days;

and c) the information offered to the USER about the possible risk of contagion,
without personal data of any kind being referred to at any time.

The USER can voluntarily inform the application of a result
positive in your COVID-19 tests using the confirmation code of
a single use facilitated by the health authorities. The validity of this code
will be checked by the health authorities to ensure the correct functioning
Radar COVID lien. The USER will report the results of their tests.
bas and you will be asked for your express and unequivocal consent to share the
keys generated daily on your device, and corresponding to the last
We have 14 days. These keys are communicated to a server that will put them
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

111/212

provision of the Radar COVID suite of applications for download. The
communicated keys have no relation to the identification of the device.
site or the USER.

There will be no discrimination against potential patients who require
ran health services and have not used the application.

3. Security and privacy

The security measures implemented correspond to those provided for in the
Annex II (Security measures) of Royal Decree 3/2010, of January 8, by the
which regulates the National Security Scheme in the field of the Administration
Electronic tration.

We inform you that your data will be treated in accordance with the provisions of the
Privacy Policy of the Application, the full content of which can be found
See the following link: Privacy Policy.

All information will be treated strictly for purposes of public interest in the
field of public health, and in view of the health emergency situation decreed
in order to protect and safeguard an interest essential to the lives of persons
sonas, in the terms described in the privacy policy.

The information on the activity of the USERS is anonymous and in no way
At this time, USERS will not be required to provide any personal data. At all times, the
USER can disable the Bluetooth contact tracing system in the
application, as well as uninstall the same.

4. Change of service and termination

Radar COVID is always trying to improve the service and seeks to offer func-
useful additional features for the USER, always bearing in mind the
preservation of public health. This means that we can add new
functions or improvements that in no case will imply the processing of personal data.
as well as remove some of the features. If these actions affect
materially to the rights and obligations of the USER, will be informed to
through the Application.

The USER can stop using the application at any time and for
any reason, by uninstalling it from your device.

5. App Holder

The General Secretariat of Digital Administration (SGAD), dependent on the Sec-
Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence of the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, is the HOLDER of the application
COVIDRadar.

Radar COVID in its architecture uses the new framework provided by
Apple and Google developed from the DP-3T Protocol for tracking pro-
decentralized proximity to preserve privacy.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

112/212

6. Responsibility and obligations

Radar COVID is offered with the best efforts, since its quality
and availability can be affected by multiple factors unrelated to the TITU-
LAR such as, among others, the volume of USERS in the geographical location
of the USER, limitations or restrictions of third-party networks operating
tors or the compatibility of the device and operating system used by the
USERNAME. Likewise, the USERS accept that the service can be seen in-
interrupted when necessary for maintenance work.

For all these reasons, the HOLDER will not be responsible for problems of access or
availability of Radar COVID and/or its services, nor of the damages that may be
could be caused by it, when they come from factors outside their scope
of control. Likewise, the HOLDER is not responsible for the following
facts, or failures, incompatibilities and/or damage to your terminals or devices.
vos that, where appropriate, could be derived from the download and/or use of the Application.
tion:

• Updating, accuracy, exhaustiveness, relevance, timeliness and reliability.
content, whatever the cause and the difficulties or problems
more technical or of another nature in which these facts have their origin.

• The quality, ownership, legitimacy, suitability or relevance of the

materials, and other content.

As a USER of the Application you agree to:

•

Prevent unauthorized third party access to the application

from your device.

• Notify the HOLDER immediately of any indication of the existence
occurrence of a breach of security in the Application, inappropriate use
or prohibited from the services provided from it, or from security failures.
gift of any kind.

• Make good use of the content, information and services provided
from or through the Application, in accordance with the law, good faith and good
generally accepted customs, expressly committing to:

o Refrain from carrying out practices or uses of the services for illicit purposes.
cough, fraudulent, harmful to rights or interests of the HOLDER or third parties,
violators of the rules contained in this document.

o Refrain from carrying out any type of action that could disable,
overload or damage systems, equipment or services of the Application or access
bles directly or indirectly through it.

o Respect the intellectual and industrial property rights of the HOLDER
and third parties about the content, information and services provided from or to
through the Application, generally refraining from copying, distributing
buy, reproduce or communicate in any way the same to third parties, unless
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

113/212

give express authorization in writing of the OWNER or of the owners of said
Rights.

o Do not provide false information in the Application, being the only res-

responsible for real and truthful communication.

o Do not impersonate the personality of a third party.

The USER of the Application is solely responsible for the use he decides to make.
czar of Radar COVID services. breach of obligations
as a USER may imply the immediate cancellation of the Application and/or its services.
cios; all this without the right to receive compensation of any kind, and without prejudice
of the corresponding legal actions that the HOLDER may have
place.

The HOLDER will not be responsible in any case for the improper use of
Radar COVID and its contents, the USER being solely responsible
for damages that may arise from misuse of these or from
the infringement of the provisions of these conditions in which it may incu-
laugh The USER undertakes to keep the HOLDER harmless against the
claims or sanctions that you may receive from third parties, whether they are individuals
res or public or private entities, by reason of said infractions, as well as
against damages of all kinds that may be suffered as a consequence
cia of the same.

In any case, the HOLDER reserves, at any time and without
prior notice, the right to modify or delete the content, structure,
design, services and conditions of access and/or use of this Application, provided
that it deems appropriate, provided that said change does not affect the principles and
data protection rights, as well as the right to interpret these
conditions, in as many issues as its application could raise.

Likewise, the reproduction, distribution, transmission, adaptation,
tion or modification, by any means and in any form, of the contents
two of Radar COVID or its courses (texts, designs, graphics, information,
databases, sound and/or image files, logos and other elements of
these sites), unless previously authorized by their legitimate owners.

The above enumeration is merely illustrative in nature and is not, in any way,
case, exclusive or excluding in any of its points. In all suppos-
data, THE HOLDER EXCLUDES ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE DAMAGE
DAMAGES AND DAMAGES OF ANY NATURE ARISING DIRECTLY
OR INDIRECTLY OF THE SAME AND OF ANY OTHER NOT
SPECIFICATIONS OF ANALOGUES CHARACTERISTICS.

The HOLDER DOES NOT OFFER ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, LEGAL
GAL OR VOLUNTEER.

THE HOLDER EXPRESSLY EXCLUDES ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES
TAS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, BUT NOT LIMITATION,
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OR COVERAGE OF HIDDEN DEFECTS
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

114/212

TOS, MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, TITLE, SUITABILITY
OF THE PRODUCT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND ANY
WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF NON-INFRINGEMENT. THIS EXCLUSION OF
LIABILITY SHALL ONLY APPLY TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
THE APPLICABLE IMPERATIVE LAW.

7. Links

Radar COVID may include within its content links to sites belonging to
owned and/or managed by third parties in order to facilitate access to information
training and services available through the Internet.

The HOLDER does not assume any responsibility derived from the existence of
links between the contents of Radar COVID and contents located outside
the same or any other mention of content external to this site, ex-
accepting those responsibilities established in the protection regulations
data tion. Such links or mentions have an exclusive purpose
informative and, in no case, imply the support, approval, commercialization
or any relationship between the HOLDER and the persons or entities that are the authors and/or manage-
owners of such content or owners of the sites where they are found, nor
any guarantee of the OWNER for the proper functioning of the sites or content
linked nests.

In this sense, the USER undertakes to use the utmost diligence and prudence
in the case of accessing or using content or services of the sites to which
Access by virtue of the aforementioned links.

8. Hyperlinks

Reproduction of COVID Radar pages via hyperlinks is not supported.
ce from another mobile application or web page, allowing exclusively the
access from the application.

In no case may it be implied that the OWNER authorizes the hyperlink
ce or that has supervised or assumed in any way the services or content
two offered by the website from which the hyperlink is produced.

False, incorrect or inappropriate statements or references may not be made.
data on the pages and services of the HOLDER.

The creation of any type of browser, software or software is explicitly prohibited.
ma, “browser” or “border environment” on the Radar COVID pages.

Content contrary to the rights of third parties may not be included, nor may
contrary to morality and accepted good customs, nor content or information
illicit actions, on the web page from which the hyperlink is established.

The existence of a hyperlink between a web page and the COVID Radar does not im-
implies the existence of relationships between the OWNER and the owner of that page.
na, nor the acceptance and approval of its contents and services.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

115/212

9. Applicable law and jurisdiction

These conditions of use will be governed and interpreted in each and every
one of its extremes by Spanish Law. In those cases in which the norm
current policy does not provide for the obligation to submit to a jurisdiction or legislation
determined, the HOLDER and the USERS, waiving any other jurisdiction
that may correspond to them, submit to the courts and tribunals of Madrid
capital (Spain).

10. Corporate information and contact

Address: Calle de Manuel Cortina, 2, 28010 Madrid

The support to the USER in case of incidents and/or claims will be
fully online and attended to
  brevity:
support.radarcovid@covid19.gob.es

the biggest

TWENTIETH
 : On August 12, 2020, it is prepared by SEDIA, and according to
  SEVENTH
 
 
ma SEDIA itself, the first EIPD document regarding the Radar pilot project
Covid, “when the decision was made to adapt the pilot project for its de-
fold at the national level”.
Said document affirms the existence of data processing of a personal nature.
sound:

“Therefore, in cases where, at first glance, the information does not allow syn-
regularize a certain person, this person can still be identifiable, because
that information can be combined with other data, whether the controller
of their treatment has knowledge of them as if not, that allow to distinguish
guide that person from others.
Although pseudonymized data was traditionally considered
anonymous data, pseudonymization is now no longer considered a
method of anonymization, since the person is still identifiable, even if it is
indirectly. Thus, it is currently considered that pseudonymized data
Both are still personal data and are subject to social regulations.
on protection of personal data.
In conclusion, in this treatment, despite the fact that users cannot be
identified directly, they could become identifiable, carrying out ma-
pas of relationships between people, through reidentification by im-
implicit, even being able to identify the identity of those infected.
It must be taken into account, in this sense, that the processing of information
not only affects the user of the application but also that of all third parties.
rivers with which he has been in contact.
Having said the above, starting from the fact that the treatment activity
The processing in question applies the current regulations on privacy and protection
of data, and taking into account the category of data that could come to identify
tify the users, the need to carry out an EIPD is analyzed”.
Regarding the roles of “Responsible, co-responsible and in charge of the treatment
to” has:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

116/212

“Therefore, and by virtue of the provisions of article 27.3, those responsible for the
treatment will be the autonomous communities, the cities of Ceuta and Melilla
and the Ministry of Health, within the scope of their respective powers, which
will guarantee the application of the mandatory security measures that result
of the corresponding risk analysis, taking into account that the treat-
treatments affect special categories of data and that said treatments are
will be carried out by public administrations obliged to comply with the
National Security burning.
In this case, the owner of the application is the General Secretariat of Administration.
Digital tion dependent on the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transformation
ción Digital, which is also constituted as Data Controller.
The application has been developed through the Secretary of State for Digi-
Talization and Artificial Intelligence (SEDIA)”.

Regarding the personal data processed, it confirms the following:

“In this way, the data generated or accessed by the application are the
following:
· The application generates proximity data (temporary exposure keys with
which the user's device has generated the random codes or IDs.
Rolling Proximity Indicator - RPI), which is data generated by the in-
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) handshaking between devices
within an epidemiologically relevant distance and during
for a relevant time also from the epidemiological point of view. It is-
These data will be communicated to the health authorities only when
has confirmed that a user in question is infected with COVID-19 and
condition that the person opts for this to be done, that is, voluntarily.
wishful thinking
Data through which the user is previously warned of a contact of
risk. These data allow estimating how many users are warned by the
application of a potential risk of contagion, without being able to trace your identity, and
allows the National Health Service to prepare initiatives and resources
necessary to serve the users who have received the notification.
· The day the user developed symptoms consistent with COVID-19.
· Code (QR) provided by the health authorities to allow the
user activate a warning alert. This 12-digit number will be pro-
provided by the health authorities, who will send it after giving possi-
tive. This number does not cease to be the "confirmation" that the user actually
has tested positive and it is not a random user trying to send alerts
false.
· The IP address that the device uses to connect to the Internet. In this
In this sense, it is worth mentioning the Judgment of the Supreme Court of October 3
2014, in which Legal Basis number four establishes that
«There is no doubt that, based on the IP address, it is possible to identify directly or indi-
the identity of the interested party, since the providers of access to information
ternet have a record of the names, telephone numbers and other identifying information
of the users to whom they have assigned the particular IP addresses. The
Judgment confirms that IP addresses are personal data since they contain
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

117/212

contain information concerning identified or identifiable persons.
(…)
Therefore, as a consequence of the above, any monitoring system
that checks a public database of diagnostic keys.
co against rolling proximity identifiers-
RPID) on a user's device leaves open the possibility that the con-
touches of an infected person find out which of the people they found
rum is infected. Furthermore, the fact that infected users share
publicly publish their diagnostic keys once a day, instead of their RPIDs
every few minutes, it exposes those people to link attacks.
Therefore, special attention must be paid to this probability, since in the
In the event that a user of the application could be identified, the privacy
would be enormously threatened, and all kinds of
personal data such as:
health data,
· Location,
· Contacts,
· Email,
call log,
· SMS and instant messaging,
· Identity of the interested party,
Phone identity (i.e. phone name)
· Browsing history,
Authentication credentials for information society services
tion (particularly services with social features)
· Photographs and videos
Biometric data (for example, facial recognition models and fingerprints
fingerprints)”.

Regarding the purpose of the treatment, they determine it, linking it to the functionalities
of the application:

“Each one of the different functionalities of the application obeys certain
late swims:
· The main purpose of the App is to inform people who have been
very close to someone who happens to be a confirmed carrier of the virus, in order to
break the chains of transmission as soon as possible. In this way, the application
tion allows identifying people who have been in contact with someone
infected with COVID-19 and inform them of the measures that should be taken
afterwards, how to undergo self-quarantine or the corresponding tests.
· For this, the App maintains the contacts of the people who use the application.
tion and who may have been exposed to COVID-19 infection.
When a person tests positive for COVID-19 and decides to share li-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

118/212

If this information is disclosed, the App alerts those other people who could have
been infected and with whom you have had contact in the last 14 days. For
this, this person must share a 12-digit number that will be provided
approved by the health authorities. The mobile performs a check to see if the
Random IDs match one that has been marked as positive.
· The day on which the user developed symptoms compatible with
COVID-19 and date of contact with infected persons.”

From the study of the life cycle of the data it is indicated that the capture of the data is pro-
duce with the "Access to information stored on the mobile device at the time
of the installation of the App”.
TWENTY-EIGHTH: On August 19, 2020, the Interterritorial Council of the
National Health System, signs an "Agreement for the use of the application "Radar COVID",
in the testing phase, by the Autonomous Communities and Autonomous Cities
more” which says:

To contribute to these tasks of active search for close contacts of ca-
sos confirmed, from the Secretary of State for Digitization and Intelligence
Artificial (SEDIA), has been developed, in coordination with other members of the
EU and the eHealth network, a digital tool to complement the tasks of
manual search of contacts that carry out the corresponding services
of the autonomous communities and cities. (…)
During the month of July 2020, the General Secretariat of Digital Administration,
governing body dependent on the Secretary of State for Digitization and Intelligence
Artificial Agency, successfully carried out a pilot project to test the func-
operation of this application on the island of La Gomera. (…)
This Temporary Agreement allows you to establish the terms of use by
the autonomous communities and cities of the "RADAR COVID" application during
said testing phase, until the date of full operation of the same, which will be
will occur by adhering to the application through the appropriate conventions.
Bilateral children of the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence
with the different autonomous communities and cities.

In point 5 it says:

5. In relation to the processing of personal data, and in application
of the regime provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and
of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of
these data and by which Directive 95/46/CE is repealed, during the validity of
this Agreement, the data controller will be the Ministry of Health and, in
their respective territory, each of the autonomous communities and cities that
are incorporated during the testing phase to the use of the application, ostensibly
fully exploiting its competencies in health matters. The handler-
will be, in both cases, the Secretary of State for Digitization and Intelligence.
Artificial agency.

TWENTY-NINTH: The technical document "Implementation procedure-
tion of the Radar COVID App as a complement to manual identification systems
cation of contacts” in its version of August 14, 2020, coordinated by:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

119/212

- Coordination Center for Health Alerts and Emergencies.
- General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation.

THIRTIETH: At the national level, the commissioning of the Radar COVID App was
produced on August 19, 2020.

THIRTY-FIRST: On August 26, 2020, the meeting is held to
Determine project status and next steps. The attendees are:

Person
DDD
F.F.F.
Z.Z.Z.
V.V.V.
HMM.
PPP
Q.Q.Q

SEDIA / CCAA / Ministry of Health / Minsait
SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
SEDIA
Minsait
Minsait
Minsait

THIRTIETH
   SECOND:
 
 
 There is a first version of the document "Analysis of
Radar Service Risks Covid19” dated August 2020, prepared by
MINTSAIT an INDRA COMPANY.
THIRTY-THIRD: There is a second version of the document "Analysis of
Radar Service Risks Covid19” dated September 2020, prepared by
MINTSAIT an INDRA COMPANY.

The main objective of Risk Analysis is to determine the level of risk at which
the assets of the Covid19 Radar Service are exposed, taking into account the
threats to which they are exposed and the level of effectiveness of the controls implemented
ted currently to protect them. The Risk Analysis is based on the information
training provided by INDRA's technical managers and those responsible
of the development, start-up and implementation of the Covid19 Radar Application,
those who know the infrastructure and who, therefore, can know the degree of
implementation of each of the security measures in Annex II of the Scheme
National Security. On the other hand, this document has been prepared
with the information collected up to its date of publication, so that, unless otherwise indicated,
express mention, changes made after this date will not be reflected.
two in the same. As mentioned above, the level of risk is
can be classified on a scale from 0 to 10, with 0 being negligible risk and
the value 10 the extremely critical risk. Taking into account this scale, and
taking as metric for the level of risk the highest risk value identified
in an asset, the result of the Risk Analysis determines a Risk Level
Current = {2,6}. Attending to the minimum levels of maturity required by the Es-
burning National Security and taking for the objective risk the same metric
that has been taken for the residual risk, that is, the highest risk value identified
ified in an asset, the objective that is proposed to be achieved in the mitigation process
tion of risks would be established at an Objective Risk Level = {1.8}.

It is recommended to address a set of actions to improve safety measures

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

120/212

currently existing, in order to adjust the level of risk of the Service
Vice Radar Covid19 at a LOW level. These actions have focused on
security measures that can minimize the threats that bring a level
of MEDIUM risk in this Risk Analysis. These actions will allow
reach the level of Objective Risk proposed, since they would increase the degree of
maturity of security measures Mp.info.4 Electronic signature and Op.acc.5 Me-
authentication channels.

The actions proposed in this case are:

- Use qualified certificates for the digital signature used in the ser-

vice of verification of the positives.

- Verify that the hardware cryptographic elements of the AWS Multi-Factor
Authentication (MFA) use algorithms and parameters accredited by the
CCN. In addition, it is recommended to review the access control mechanism to
the PostgreSQL Database to conclude that it meets the requirements
high level

THIRTY-FOURTH On September 9, 2020, the METD publishes this note
press:

“The RadarCOVID mobile application completes its implementation in thirteen communities
autonomous, which cover 70% of the population, and releases its code. (…)

In the absence of that necessary integration, the application is up and running on
the entire national territory since last August. This implies that the
minal already stores the anonymous identifiers of the other terminals with which
that you have been in risky contact during the last seven days.

For this reason, and although the technical implementation is in process in some communities,
autonomous entities, it is useful to have the application already installed so that this process of
registration is taking place and to be able to be protected from the first moment.
to which it starts up. More than 3.7 million users have downloaded
and to the application, protecting yourself and those around you against po-
possible chains of contagion.

code release

In addition, one of the commitments acquired with the
start of application development: the release of its code.

This is an exercise in transparency so that the operation of the application
tion can be audited openly and directly by the public. (…)

With the intention of publicizing the operation of the application and resolving the
doubts and issues that citizens share through social networks, the
Secretary of State for Digitization and IA has launched two separate accounts
specific to the application. Thus, from the @AppRadarCOVID account, available
both on Twitter and Instagram, timely information will be shared about
about the news regarding the app and will answer the most frequently asked questions.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

121/212

tell me to get citizenship.”

THIRTY-FIFTH: The technical document "Implementation procedure-
tion of the Radar COVID App as a complement to manual identification systems
cation of contacts” in its version of September 15, 2020, coordinated by:

- Coordination Center for Health Alerts and Emergencies.
- General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation.

THIRTY-SIX: There are two more versions of the Impact Assessment:

In the second version, dated September 2020, it says:

“For this reason, and by virtue of the provisions of article 27.3, those responsible for the traffic-
will be the autonomous communities, the cities of Ceuta and Melilla and the
Ministry of Health, within the scope of their respective powers, which guarantees
will enforce the application of mandatory security measures resulting from the co-
corresponding risk analysis, taking into account that the treatments affect
to COVID Radar 10 special categories of data and that said treatments se-
will be carried out by public administrations obliged to comply with the Scheme
ma National Security.

In this case, the owner of the application is the General Secretariat of Administration
Digital under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
such, that it is also constituted as Responsible for the Treatment”.

In the third version, it says:

“For this reason, and by virtue of the provisions of article 27.3, those responsible for the traffic-
will be the autonomous communities, the cities of Ceuta and Melilla and the
Ministry of Health, within the scope of their respective powers, which guarantees
will enforce the application of mandatory security measures resulting from the co-
corresponding risk analysis, taking into account that the treatments affect
a Radar COVID 10 special categories of data and that said treatments se-
will be carried out by public administrations obliged to comply with the Scheme
ma National Security.

The data controller is the General Directorate of Public Health, depending
tooth of the Ministry of Health.

The person in charge of treatment is the General Secretariat of Digital Administration,
dependent on the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, which
has developed the Application.”

Likewise, in the first version of the Impact Assessment, it is indicated regarding its
The purpose of this document is to present the results of the
Risk Analysis carried out for the Covid19 Radar Service with respect to the National Scheme
end of Security”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

122/212

They assert that “The application does not request any personal data, nor does it require
create user (without login or personal data). The application uses anonymous keys and
exchange random identifiers, which are constantly changing. The im-
applied in the application knows the type of information and, most importantly, the
Security policy".

In accordance with the foregoing and the content of this, the impact assessment is limited to
undermine compliance with the ENS, without entering into a possible risk analysis or evalua-
data protection impact tion.

THIRTY-SEVENTH: In the final version of the "Privacy Policy of the
Radar COVID Application” published in October 2020, contains the following
information:

PRIVACY POLICY OF THE APP Radar COVID
Please read this privacy policy for users of the website carefully.
mobile application "Radar COVID" (or the "Application"), where you can find
all information about the data we use, how we use it and what it contains
troll you have on them.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT:
The USER is warned that the use of the Application DOES NOT CONSTITUTE
YOU DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES A MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS SERVICE,
EMERGENCY CARE OR TREATMENT PRESCRIPTION
PHARMACOLOGICAL, since the use of the Application could not in any way
replace the personal face-to-face consultation with a medical professional
duly qualified.
1. What is COVID Radar?
Radar COVID is an application for mobile devices of alert of conta-
SARS-CoV-2 virus, whose HOLDER is the General Secretariat of Admi-
Digital Administration, dependent on the Secretary of State for Digitization and
Artificial Intelligence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transformation
Digital.
Thanks to Radar COVID, those users who have downloaded the app-
tion and accept its use will receive a notification in the event that in the fourteen
days prior to that notification have been exposed to an epidemic contact
myological (less than two meters and more than 15 minutes) with another user (all
anonymous) who has declared in the application to have given a result
do positive in the COVID 19 test (prior accreditation of the authorities
sanitary). The application will inform you exclusively about the day (within
those previous fourteen) in which exposure to contact
but not about the identity of the user to whom it has been exposed (information
tion impossible as it is an application that does not request, use or store data from
personal character of the users) nor the identification of the device of this, nor
about the time or place where the exposure occurred.
Once a notification is received, the application will provide the exposed user with information
tion for the adoption of preventive and assistance measures, to contribute
thus to contain the spread of the virus.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

123/212

The success of the application as a tool that contributes to the containment of
spread is directly linked to users being aware,
and act accordingly, that, despite communicating to the application
that a positive result has been obtained in the COVID 19 test (prior
accreditation of the health authorities) is voluntary, not communicating it and
being a mere receiver of information from third-party users makes the application
tion loses its preventive usefulness not only for other users but for the
rest of the general population. The completely anonymous character should
encourage, without a doubt, the exercise of this responsible action.
2. How does the app work?
Once you have downloaded the application, accept the conditions of
use and privacy policy and start using it, your mobile device generates
each day will generate a random identifier called a “temporary exposure key”.
ral” with a size of 16 characters (16 bytes or 128 bits) that will be used to derive
var “Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers” that are exchanged with other
nearby mobile phones that also have the Radar application downloaded.
Give COVID and activated your Bluetooth.
“Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers” are random codes with a size
16 characters (16 bytes, or 128 bits), which are generated by your mobile phone
every 10-20 minutes, starting from the daily “temporary exposure key”. These
codes do not contain personal information, which allows to identify the phone
mobile or the user thereof. These “Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers” are
transmitted by your mobile phone several times per second to nearby devices.
gray, accessible via Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE, Bluetooth Low
Energy), producing an exchange of random codes between devices
so that they can be stored by nearby phones that have downloaded
I win the app. Similarly, every five minutes, your mobile phone is-
will listen for ephemeral Bluetooth identifiers that are broadcast by other
mobile phones that have the application and will store them to determine if
you have been with another user infected by COVID-19 over the last
14 days after you have reported a positive.
Your phone stores the temporary exposure keys that you have generated in
the last 14 days. Remember that these keys are randomly generated and not
They serve to identify your mobile phone or its USER.
If you have received a positive diagnosis for COVID-19, you can enter volunteers
maryly in the application the "single-use confirmation code" that you
will facilitate your Public Health Service and that will be validated on the server of the
SGAD. At that time, the application will ask for your consent to send
throw to our server up to a maximum of the last 14 exposure keys
temporarily stored on your phone, therefore, only if you lend it, they are sent
will be sent to the SGAD server which, after verifying the accuracy of the code,
will serve to compose a daily list of temporary exhibition keys of
people infected by COVID-19 that are downloaded daily from
the server by all the Radar COVID applications that are running
I lie.
The information in these listings is used so that on your own phone you can
check if you have had close contact (less than two meters and more than 15
minutes) with people who have reported a COVID-19 infection, without identity.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

124/212

tify neither the person, nor the place of exposure, nor the mobile device, nor any-
any personal information about you or the other person. That is, the application downloads
voluntarily shared temporary exposure keys periodically
by users diagnosed by COVID-19 of the server, to compare them
with the random codes recorded in the previous days as a result of
contacts with other users. If a match is found, the application
runs an algorithm on the device that, based on the duration and distance
estimated contact, and according to the criteria established by the
health authorities, evaluates the risk of exposure to the SARS-CoV-2 virus and
in its case, it shows a notification warning the user of the risk contact.
rio, informing him of the date of the same and inviting him to self-isolate and contact
deal with the health authorities.
These keys sent to the server do not allow the direct identification of the
users and are necessary to guarantee the correct functioning of the system.
risk contacts alert ma.
3. Who is responsible for processing your data as a user?
from “COVID Radar”?
This application is responsible for processing both the Ministry of
Health, as well as the Autonomous Communities. Likewise, the General Secretariat
The General Director of Digital Administration acts as the person in charge of the treatment.
At the national level, the person responsible for processing your data as a user of
“COVID Radar” is:
As part of the COVID-19 contagion alert system, data will be processed
the following data for users who have tested positive for COVID-19
for the purposes specified below:
Name: Ministry of Health.
Address: Paseo del Prado 18-20, 28014 Madrid
The General Secretariat of Digital Administration, as the owner of the application
cation and based on the order of the treatment entrusted by the Ministry of
Health, will carry out the following treatment operations:
Generation of codes for the communication of positives in the Ra-
give COVID.
Reception of the information sent by users when they communicate a
positive. This information includes:
Daily exposure keys up to a maximum of 14 days. the exact number
of communicated codes will depend on the date of onset of symptoms or date of
diagnosis that is reported in the application.
The preference or not to communicate these daily exposure keys to the node
European framework for interoperability between contact tracing applications.
Composition of an updated list of temporary exhibition keys that
are made available for download by Radar applications.
give COVID.
In relation to the European contact interoperability node (EFGS).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

125/212

Daily reception of the lists of temporary exhibition keys generated
by the national servers of the Member States adhered, where appropriate, to the
Project.
Daily submission to the EFGS node of a list of temporary exposure keys
submitted by Radar COVID users who have explicitly consented
share this information with the rest of the Member States adhering to the program.
project.
The Autonomous Communities adhered to the use of the application are, likewise,
mo, data controllers, carrying out the following operations
of treatment:
Request to the Radar COVID server to generate confirmation codes
of positive.
Delivery of these codes to people diagnosed positive by tests
PCR.
The person in charge of the treatment and owner of the application is the General Secretariat
of Digital Administration, the governing body of the Secretary of State for Digital
and Artificial Intelligence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trans-
Digital training, under the Agreement between the Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Digital Transformation (Secretariat of State for Digitization and Inteli-
Artificial Agency) and the Ministry of Health about the application "Radar CO-
VINE".
4. What data do we process about you?
The data handled by the application does not allow the direct identification of the
user or your device, and are only those necessary for the sole purpose of information
Mars that you have been exposed to a situation of risk of contagion by the
COVID-19, as well as to facilitate the possible adoption of preventive measures
and assistance.
In no case will the movements of USERS be tracked, excluding
thus any form of geolocation.
The IP address of the USERS will not be stored or processed.
Positive confirmation codes will not be stored together with other data.
personal cough of users.
As part of the COVID-19 risk contact alert system,
will process the following data for users who have tested positive for
COVID-19 for the purposes specified below:
The temporary exposure keys with which the user's device has generated
generated the random codes sent (Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers), to
devices with which the user has come into contact, up to a maximum
mo of the previous 14 days. These keys have nothing to do with the identity
entity of the USER, and are uploaded to the server so that they can be downloaded
by Radar COVID apps held by other users. With these keys,
through processing that takes place in the mobile phone unintentionally.
centralized, the USER can be warned about the risk of contagion by ha-
have been in recent contact with a person who has been diagnosed
by COVID-19, without the application being able to derive your identity or the place where
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

126/212

the contact took place.
A 12-digit one-time confirmation code provided by the authorities
health information to the USER in case of a positive test for COVID-19. East
code must be entered below by the user in the application to
allow the voluntary upload to the server of temporary exposure keys.
The user's consent, if applicable, for the remission of exposure keys
temporary assignment to the European tracing application interoperability node
of contacts.
The notice of notification of exposure, in order to collect statistics
anonymous and aggregate of the volume of notifications produced by the system to
through contact tracing. These data allow estimating how many users
have been alerted by the Application, of a potential risk of infection, without being able to
to trace your identity.
All information will be collected for strictly public interest purposes.
the field of public health, and in the event of a health emergency, decrees
tada, in order to protect and safeguard an interest essential to the lives of the
people, in the terms described in this privacy policy, and attending
to articles 6.1.a), 9.2.a), 6.1.c), 6.1.d), 6.1.e), 9.2.c), 9.2.h) and 9.2.i)
The applicable legislation is listed below:
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and
the free movement of these data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
(General Data Protection Regulation).
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights.
Organic Law 3/1986, of April 14, on Special Measures in the Matter of
Public health.
Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.
Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health.
Royal Decree Law 21/2020, of June 9, on urgent prevention measures,
containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis caused by
the COVID-19.
Agreement of October 9, 2020, between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Digital Transformation (Secretariat of State for Digitization and Intelligence
Artificial) and the Ministry of Health about the “Radar COVID” application.
5. How do we obtain and where does your data come from?
The positive confirmation code for COVID-19 provided by the Service
Health Public. This will allow the upload to the server of the exposure keys.
temporary tion with which the user's device has generated the codes
random sent (Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers) to devices with
which the user has come into contact, up to a maximum of 14 days before.
beef. These keys are only uploaded to the server with the explicit consent
I quote and unequivocal of the USER, having entered a confirmation code
positive for COVID-19.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

127/212

The exposure notification notice is provided by the application in a
anonymous for the purpose of composing an aggregate statistic of the volume of
users who have been notified.
6. For what and why do we use your data?
The collection, storage, modification, structuring and, where appropriate, elimination
nation, of the data generated, will constitute treatment operations carried out
carried out by the Holder, in order to guarantee the correct functioning
use of the App, maintain the service provision relationship with the User.
rio, and for the management, administration, information, provision and improvement of the service
vice.
The information and data collected through the Application will be treated with
purposes strictly of public interest in the field of public health, given the
current health emergency situation as a result of the pandemic
of COVID-19 and the need for its control and spread, as well as to gain
guarantee your vital interests or those of third parties, in accordance with the regulations
current data protection.
For this purpose, we use your data to provide you with the "Radar COVID" service and
so that you can make use of its functionalities in accordance with its conditions.
tions of use. In accordance with the General Regulation for the Protection of
Data (RGPD) as well as any applicable national legislation, the
General Secretariat of Digital Administration will treat all the data generated
while using the App for the following purposes:
Offer you information on contacts considered to be at risk of exposure to
the COVID-19.
Provide you with practical advice and recommendations for actions to follow
According to situations of risk in the face of quarantine or self-quarantine,
I had
The data will always and only be used anonymously for statistical purposes.
ethical and epidemiological.
This treatment will be carried out through the alert functionality of
contagion that allows to identify situations of risk for having been in
close contact with users of the application who are
infected by COVID-19. In this way you will be informed of the measures
which should be adopted later.
7. How long do we keep your data?
Temporary Exposure Keys and Ephemeral Bluetooth Identifiers
are stored on the device for a period of 14 days, after the
which are eliminated.
Likewise, the temporary exhibition keys that have been communicated to the
server by USERS diagnosed as positive for COVID-19 also
They will also be removed from the server after 14 days.
In any case, neither the temporary exposure keys nor the ephemeral identifiers
Bluetooth ros contain personal data and do not allow identifier
users' mobile phones.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

128/212

The exposure notification notice is added in the daily notices indicator.
communicated rivers, being discarded for any other use.
8. Who has access to your data?
The data managed by the mobile application (daily exposure keys
temporary and ephemeral Bluetooth identifiers) are stored only in the
user's device in order to be able to make calculations and notify the USER
RIO about your risk of exposure to COVID-19.
Only in the case of reporting a positive diagnosis for COVID-19, the keys
of temporary exposure of the last 14 days generated on the device, and
under the explicit and unequivocal consent of the USER, are uploaded to the ser-
viewer for dissemination to all USERS of this system.
These keys have nothing to do with the identity of the devices
mobile phones or with personal data of the USERS of the Application.
The communicated exposure notification notices are only used for the
generation of aggregated and anonymous statistical data.
9. What are your rights and how can you control your data?
The current regulations grant you a series of rights in relation to the data
and information we process about you. Specifically, access rights,
rectification, deletion, limitation and opposition.
You can check the scope and full details of them on the page
website of the Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) here.
In general, you can exercise all these rights at any time.
ment and for free. You can contact the Treatment Managers
electronically, either the Ministry of Health or the Autonomous Community of residence.
dence. In the case of the Ministry of Health, you can do it through
this form, or in person through the assistance office network
regarding records using this application form (editable version and
printable).
Likewise, you have the right to file a claim at all times.
tion before the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
10. How do we protect your data?
Those Responsible, as well as the SGAD in charge of processing
guarantee the security, secrecy and confidentiality of your data,
communications and personal information and have adopted the most demanding and
extensive security measures and technical means to prevent loss, misuse
or its access without your authorization. The security measures implemented are co-
correspond to those provided for in Annex II (Security measures) of the Real
Decree 3/2010, of January 8, which regulates the National Scheme of
Security in the field of Electronic Administration.
Finally, we inform you that both the storage and the rest of the
Non-personal data processing activities used will always be
located within the European Union.
11. What do you have to take into account especially when using "Radar COVID"?

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

129/212

You must take into account certain aspects related to the minimum age of
use of the Application, the quality of the data you provide us, as well
such as uninstalling the Application on your mobile device.
Minimum age of use: to be able to use "Radar COVID" you have to be
over 18 years of age or have the authorization of your parents and/or legal guardians.
them. Therefore, by registering in the Application, you guarantee the Owner that you are
older than that age or, otherwise, that you have the aforementioned autho-
torization
Quality of the data you provide us: the information you provide us in
the use of the Application services must always be real, truthful and es-
updated tar.
App Uninstall: In general, you can uninstall the app in
your device at any time. This process removes from your mobile phone
the history of codes received from other mobile phones for the functions
close contact alerts.
12. Transfer of data to countries of the European Union
Radar COVID participates in the application integration platform of the
European Union, so that the positive keys will be shared with third parties
EU countries and vice versa.
When the user's device downloads the positive keys to analyze
possible close contacts, it will also download the positive keys of third parties.
ros countries adhering to the European project.
This will make it possible to identify possible close contacts whether the user has been
been visiting any of these countries as if you have been in close contact
with a visitor from these countries.
When the user enters a positive diagnostic confirmation code
by COVID-19, the user's free, specific, independent consent will be requested.
formed and unambiguous to share your infected keys with third countries
through the European interoperability platform facilitating direct tracking
gital from possible close contacts. The communication of your infected keys
given to the network of European countries adhering to this project is completely
volunteer.
No data transfers will be made outside the European Union
13. Cookie Policy
We only use technical cookies that allow the user to navigate and
the use of the different options or services offered in the Application
tion, such as accessing restricted access areas or using electronic elements.
safety measures during navigation.
I have read the document PRIVACY POLICY OF THE APPLICATION "Ra-
give COVID.”

THIRTY-EIGHTH: In the final version of the "Terms of Use of Radar
COVID” contains the following information:

Radar COVID TERMS OF USE

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

130/212

BY DOWNLOADING AND USING THE “Radar COVID” MOBILE APPLICATION MANI-
PARTIES THAT YOU HAVE READ AND ACCEPT THESE TERMS OF USE AND
THE PRIVACY POLICY. HERE IS ALL THE INFORMATION
REGARDING YOUR RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS AS A USER OF
THIS APPLICATION.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT:
The USER is warned that the use of the Application DOES NOT CONSTITUTE
YOU DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES A MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS SERVICE,
EMERGENCY CARE OR TREATMENT PRESCRIPTION
PHARMACOLOGICAL, since the use of the Application could not in any way
replace the personal face-to-face consultation with a medical professional
duly qualified.
1. What is COVID Radar
Radar COVID is an application that promotes public health through a
alert system for risk contacts in relation to COVID-19, putting
available to USERS (hereinafter, individually, the "USER",
and jointly the "USERS"), the possibility of browsing the Application,
accessing the contents and services of Radar COVID, in accordance with the
these TERMS OF USE.
Radar COVID detects the strength of Bluetooth signals exchanged between
devices that have this active application, through the use of identifiers
ephemeral random factors, unrelated to the identity of the phone.
mobile phone employee or the USER. The device of each USER downloaded
Periodically generate the Bluetooth keys of all the USERS of the application.
tion that they have reported through the same that they have been diagnosed
COVID-19 (prior accreditation of the health authorities), proceeding to
determine if the USER has established risk contact with any of the
them, verified by the Bluetooth signals exchanged. If this is the case, the
cation notifies you of this fact, so that you can take action, and contribute
Build in this way to prevent the virus from spreading.
Radar COVID in its architecture uses the Exposure Notification System
tions (SNE) provided by Apple and Google, and developed from the
DP-3T decentralized proximity tracking protocol to preserve the
privacy.
2. Use of COVID Radar
To use the Radar COVID services, it is a necessary requirement that
the USER authorizes the activation of the Bluetooth communications system of
low energy (BLE, Bluetooth Low Energy) by the Application, after the
download of it.
The USER accepts without reservation the content of these CONDITIONS
OF USE. Consequently, the USER must carefully read the same
more before accessing and using any Radar COVID service
under your entire responsibility.
IMPORTANT NOTICE: The use of the Application is free, free and voluntary.
would for all citizens. To use Radar COVID it is not necessary to be-
be registered, nor provide any personal, identifying or non-identifying data.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

131/212

By activating the application, the USER accepts:
a) sending anonymously emitted Bluetooth signals by your device;
b) the reception and storage of Bluetooth signals from applications
compatible with Radar COVID, which are kept anonymous and decentralized
stored on USERS' devices for a period not exceeding 14
days;
c) the information offered to the USER about the possible risk of contagion, without
that at no time personal data of any kind is referred.
d) receive positive codes from third countries of the European Union through
the European Union Interoperability Platform (EFGS);
e) under explicit consent, the sending of positive keys that will be
games with third countries of the European Union through the platform of
interoperability of the European Union (EFGS).
The USER can voluntarily inform the application of a result
positive in your COVID-19 tests using the confirmation code of
a single use facilitated by the health authorities. The validity of this code
will be checked by the application to ensure the correct operation of Ra-
give COVID. The USER will report the results of their tests and will be
will request the express and unequivocal consent to share the generated keys.
generated daily on your device, and corresponding to the last 14
days. These keys are communicated to a server that will make them available
of the Radar COVID suite of applications for download. The keys with
communications have nothing to do with the identification of the device or the
USERNAME.
3. Security and privacy
The security measures implemented correspond to those provided for in the
Annex II (Security measures) of Royal Decree 3/2010, of January 8, by the
which regulates the National Security Scheme in the field of the Administration
Electronic tration.
We inform you that your data will be treated in accordance with the provisions of the
Privacy Policy of the Application, the full content of which can be found
See the following link: Privacy Policy.
All information will be treated strictly for purposes of public interest in the
field of public health, and in view of the health emergency situation decreed
in order to protect and safeguard an interest essential to the lives of persons
sonas, in the terms described in the privacy policy.
The information on the activity of the USERS is anonymous and in no way
At this time, USERS will not be required to provide any personal data. At all times, the
USER can disable the Bluetooth contact tracing system in the
application, as well as uninstall the Application.
4. Change of service and termination
Radar COVID is always trying to improve the service and seeks to offer func-
useful additional features for the USER, always bearing in mind the
preservation of public health. This means that we can add new

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

132/212

features or enhancements, as well as remove some of the features. If you are new
These functions or improvements materially affect the rights and obligations
of the USER, will be informed through the Application so that it adopts the
timely decisions about continued use.
The USER can stop using the application at any time and for
any reason, by uninstalling it from your device.
5. App Holder
The General Secretariat of Digital Administration (SGAD), dependent on the Sec-
Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence of the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, is the OWNER body of the
app.
6. Responsibility and obligations
Radar COVID is offered with the best efforts, since its quality
and availability can be affected by multiple factors unrelated to the TITU-
LAR such as, among others, the volume of other USERS in the location
geographic location of the USER, limitations or restrictions of third-party networks
operators or the compatibility of the device and operating system used by
the user. Likewise, the USERS accept that the service can be seen
interrupted when necessary for maintenance work.
For all these reasons, the HOLDER will not be responsible for problems of access or
availability of Radar COVID and/or its services, nor of the damages that
could cause for it, when they come from factors outside their scope.
control guy.
Likewise, the HOLDER is not responsible for the following facts, nor
of failures, incompatibilities and/or damages of your terminals or devices that, in
your case, could be derived from the download and/or use of the Application:
Updating, accuracy, completeness, relevance, timeliness and reliability of
its contents, whatever the cause and the difficulties or technical problems
unique or of another nature in which these facts have their origin.
The quality, ownership, legitimacy, adequacy or relevance of the materials,
and other content.
As a USER of the Application you agree to:
Prevent unauthorized third party access to the application from your
device.
Notify the HOLDER immediately of any indication of the existence
of a breach of security in the Application, inappropriate use or
prohibited from the services provided from it, or security flaws
of any kind.
Make good use of the content, information and services provided from or to
through the Application, in accordance with the law, good faith and good customs.
generally accepted names, expressly committing to:
Refrain from carrying out practices or uses of the services for illicit purposes, fraud,
dulent, harmful to the rights or interests of the HOLDER or third parties, infringing
res of the rules contained in this document.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

133/212

Refrain from performing any type of action that could render useless, overload
garnish or damage systems, equipment or services of the Application or directly accessible
or indirectly through it.
Respect the intellectual and industrial property rights of the HOLDER and of
third parties about the content, information and services provided from or through
through the Application, generally refraining from copying, distributing,
reproduce or communicate in any way the same to third parties, if there is no
express written authorization of the HOLDER or of the holders of said rights.
rights.
Do not provide false information in the Application, being solely responsible
real and truthful communication.
Do not impersonate the personality of a third party.
The USER of the Application is solely responsible for the use he decides to make.
czar of Radar COVID services.
The HOLDER will not be responsible in any case for the improper use of
Radar COVID and its contents, the USER being solely responsible
for damages that may arise from misuse of these or from
the infringement of the provisions of these conditions in which it may incu-
laugh The USER undertakes to keep the HOLDER harmless against the
claims or sanctions that you may receive from third parties, whether they are individuals
res or public or private entities, by reason of said infractions, as well as
against damages of all kinds that may be suffered as a consequence
cia of the same.
In any case, the HOLDER reserves, at any time and without
prior notice, the right to modify or delete the content, structure,
design, services and conditions of access and/or use of this Application, provided
that said change does not affect the principles and rights of data protection,
as well as the right to interpret these conditions, in all questions
nes could raise your application.
Likewise, the reproduction, distribution, transmission, adaptation,
tion or modification, by any means and in any form, of the contents
two of Radar COVID or its courses (texts, designs, graphics, information,
databases, sound and/or image files, logos and other elements of
these sites), except as permitted by the open source release license
under which the system has been published.
The above enumeration is merely illustrative in nature and is not, in any way,
case, exclusive or excluding in any of its points. In all suppos-
data, THE HOLDER EXCLUDES ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE DAMAGE
DAMAGES AND DAMAGES OF ANY NATURE ARISING DIRECTLY
OR INDIRECTLY OF THE SAME AND OF ANY OTHER NOT
SPECIFICATIONS OF ANALOGUES CHARACTERISTICS.
The HOLDER DOES NOT OFFER ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, LEGAL
GAL OR VOLUNTEER.
THE HOLDER EXPRESSLY EXCLUDES ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES
TAS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, BUT NOT LIMITATION,
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OR COVERAGE OF HIDDEN DEFECTS
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

134/212

TOS, MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, TITLE, SUITABILITY
OF THE PRODUCT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND ANY
WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF NON-INFRINGEMENT. THIS EXCLUSION OF
LIABILITY SHALL ONLY APPLY TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
THE APPLICABLE IMPERATIVE LAW.
7. Links
Radar COVID may include within its content links to sites belonging to
owned and/or managed by third parties in order to facilitate access to information
training and services available through the Internet.
The HOLDER does not assume any responsibility derived from the existence of
links between the contents of Radar COVID and contents located outside
the same or any other mention of external content, except
those responsibilities established in the data protection regulations.
cough. Such links or mentions have an exclusively informative purpose.
and, in no case, imply the support, approval, commercialization or relationship
between the HOLDER and the persons or entities that are authors and/or managers of
such contents or owners of the sites where they are found, nor any guarantee
of the HOLDER for the proper functioning of the sites or linked content.
ted.
In this sense, the USER undertakes to use the utmost diligence and prudence
in the case of accessing or using content or services of the sites to which
Access by virtue of the aforementioned links.
8. Hyperlinks
Reproduction of COVID Radar pages via hyperlinks is not supported.
ce from another mobile application or web page, allowing exclusively the
access from the application.
In no case may it be implied that the OWNER authorizes the hyperlink
ce or that has supervised or assumed in any way the services or content
two offered by the website from which the hyperlink is produced.
False, incorrect or inappropriate statements or references may not be made.
data on the pages and services of the HOLDER.
The creation of any type of browser, software or software is explicitly prohibited.
ma, “browser” or “border environment” on the Radar COVID pages.
Content contrary to the rights of third parties may not be included, nor may
contrary to morality and accepted good customs, nor content or information
illicit actions, on the web page from which the hyperlink is established.
The existence of a hyperlink between a web page and the COVID Radar does not im-
implies the existence of relationships between the OWNER and the owner of that page.
na, nor the acceptance and approval of its contents and services.
9. Applicable law and jurisdiction
These conditions of use will be governed and interpreted in each and every
one of its extremes by Spanish legislation. In those cases where
current regulations do not provide for the obligation to submit to a jurisdiction or legislation
determined, the HOLDER and the USERS, waiving any other

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

135/212

jurisdiction that may correspond to them, submit to the courts and tribunals of
Madrid capital (Spain).
10. Corporate information and contact
Address: Calle de Manuel Cortina, 2, 28010 Madrid

THIRTY-NINTH: On October 15, 2020, the “Re-
solution of October 13, 2020, of the Undersecretariat, by which the Agreement is published
between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation and the Ministry
of Health, about the application "Radar COVID"”. Dated 10/10/2020 enters
said resolution is in force.

The Agreement is signed between the Secretary General of Digital Administration, by delegation
ment of SEDIA, and the Secretary General of Digital Health, Information and Innovation
of the National Health System, by delegation of the MSND.

This indicates the competencies of the participants:

“Second.- That in accordance with the provisions of article 7.1 of the Royal Decree
735/2020, of August 4, which develops the basic organic structure
of the Ministry of Health, the General Secretariat of Digital Health, Informa-
tion and Innovation of the National Health System (hereinafter, SGSDII) is the
governing body of the Ministry of Health which, under the superior direction of
the person in charge of the Department, it is up to address the mo-
dernization, innovation, improvement and transformation of the National System of
Health.

Third. That, in accordance with the provisions of article 8.2.a) of the Royal Decree
735/2020, of August 4, the General Directorate of Digital Health and Information Systems
Information for the National Health System is the governing body depending
tooth of the General Secretariat of Digital Health to whom the design corresponds,
development and implementation of the common electronic services of the System
National Health, the computer applications and digital health of the Ministry
of Health, as well as the sectoral and horizontal portals of said Department.
ment, guaranteeing its integration and homogeneity

Fourth.- That in accordance with the provisions of Royal Decree 403/2020, of 25
February, which develops the basic organizational structure of the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, corresponds to the General Secretariat
Directorate of Digital Administration (hereinafter SGAD), the governing body of the Sec-
Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, the direction, coordination
nation and execution of the powers attributed to the Secretary of State in
matter of digital transformation of the administration”.

In the "EXPOSE" Sixth says:

“That in application of these principles, since May 2020, the SGAD
has been developing, with the knowledge and agreement of the Ministry of
Health, an application for the traceability of contacts in relation to the pandemic
mine caused by COVID-19 called “Radar COVID. During the month of
July 2020, with the approval of the General Directorate of Public Health, Cali-
and Innovation of the Ministry of Health, the SGAD successfully carried out the pro-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

136/212

pilot project of the same, whose success guarantees the viability of the proposed solution.
ta for tracing close contacts”

In the "EXPOSE" Ninth it says:

“That, until now, the Ministry of Health has been collaborating with the
SGAD, owner of the “Radar COVID” application, in the functional adjustment processes
end of it from the perspective of public health, coordinating the protocols
epidemiological management of cases detected through the application, and favoring
promoting the progressive incorporation of the autonomous communities and cities into
its use in the testing phase with real data according to the aforementioned Agreement
of August 19, 2020.”

The first of the clauses says:

First. Object. It is the object of this Agreement:
a) Delegate to the General Secretariat of Digital Administration (hereinafter,
SGAD) of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, all
the skills of design, development, implementation and evolution of the application
"Radar COVID" that correspond to the General Directorate of Digital Health
and Information Systems for the National Health System under the
provided for in article 8.2.a) of Royal Decree 735/2020, of August 4, by the
development of the basic organic structure of the Ministry of Health, the
General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the Na-
tional Health. The General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information and Innovation
tion of the National Health System has previously approved the delegation of
all these powers in the SGAD in accordance with the provisions of article
9.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1.
b) Delegate to the SGAD the competence of the Minister of Health to sign
collaboration agreements with the autonomous communities and cities
for their adherence to the use of the “Radar COVID” application, in accordance
with the provisions of Chapter VI of the Preliminary Title of Law 40/2015, of 1
October, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector. without prejudice to the support
to facilitate its processing, it will be provided by the General Secretariat of Digital Health,
Information and Innovation of the National Health System.

The second of the clauses says:

Second. Obligations of the parties in relation to the delegation of competence
provisions provided for in letter a) of the first clause:
1. With the signing of this Agreement, in relation to the delegation of competence
provisions provided for in letter a) of the first clause, the SGAD undertakes to
fulfillment of the following obligations:
a) The contracting of evolutionary, corrective, adaptive and perfect maintenance
tive of the "Radar COVID" system from its budget appropriations.
b) The open publication of the source code of the “Radar COVID” system.
c) Support for the operation of the system and the management of the associated infrastructure.
ciada
d) The support and attention to users and autonomous communities and cities in
regarding the technical aspects of this system.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

137/212

e) Any other obligations necessary for the proper functioning
of the application and, in particular, its integration with the European system of
change of contacts, including the formal application for joining the system.
2. Decisions regarding the evolution of the Application will be made in accordance with
common agreement between the parties.
3. In relation to the delegation of powers provided for in letter a) of the
first clause of this Agreement, correspond to the General Secretariat of
Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the National Health System, in addition to
more than its obligations as Responsible for the processing of character data.
ter staff, and its General Directorate of Digital Health and Information Systems
for the National Health System, the following obligations:
a) Monitoring the design and implementation of the “Radar COVID” system.
b) The reception of the data held by the SGAD (related to
your active download, use, codes used, etc) for proper monitoring
epidemiology of the Pandemic in Spain, as well as its relationship with other countries.
ses europeans
c) The promotion of the necessary measures for its correct application within the
scope of competence of the General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information
and Innovation of the National Health System, as well as the promotion of agreements
two that were necessary to adopt in this regard in the Interterritorial Council of the
National system of health.
d) The analysis of compliance with objectives and, where appropriate, the proposal for re-
formulation of procedures and indicators to adjust them to social needs
briefings.
e) Any other obligations necessary for the proper functioning
of the application.

The third of the clauses in paragraph 1 and 2 reads:

1. In the collaboration agreements that the SGAD signs by delegation
of the Ministry of Health for the adherence of the autonomous communities and cities
Except for the use of the "Radar COVID" application, the SGAD will commit to
fulfillment of the following obligations:
a) The provision of the use of the Application in accordance with the provisions of the
Agreement.
b) The distribution to the competent ministries in matters of health of the
positive codes necessary for users of the Application with test
positive PCR enter them in it, thus guaranteeing the non-existence of
false positives in the system.
c) The adoption of the necessary security measures to protect the information
contained in the application and the systems associated with technological solutions
cas object of said Convention.
d) The assumption of the commitment not to re-identify the interested parties.
e) The assumption of the commitment not to store codes or elements
that could allow the reidentification of people, including di-
IP addresses.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

138/212

f) The establishment of deadlines for the limitation and deletion of information
obtained, including the application logs, as part of the life cycle of the
data, prior approval of the Ministry of Health in its capacity as responsible
ble of the treatment.
g) The assumption of the commitment not to carry out unilateral processing
of the data, giving rise to different treatments or treatment operations.
those established in the agreement or similar that had not been foreseen
in said agreement.
h) The assumption of the commitment not to carry out self-decision making
nuanced or other decisions that could affect the interested parties.
i) The establishment, together with the competent ministry in matters of health
of the autonomous community or city in question, the detail of who puts
end to the life cycle of the processing of personal data and terms in which
the definitive elimination of all information should be carried out, along with
the commitment of both parties not to keep data beyond the agreement of the
end of treatment life cycle.
 j) Any other obligations necessary for the successful completion of the application
that the SGAD can carry out in its field of competence.
2. In the aforementioned collaboration agreements, the Ministry of Health and
the Ministry responsible for health matters in the autonomous community or city.
the tone in question will appear as data controllers
of a personal nature and the SGAD as the data processor, for the purposes
provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Con-
Council of April 27, 2016 regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these
data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation of
data protection) and in Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Pro-
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights and other regulations
application in terms of data protection.
3. In relation to the delegation of powers provided for in letter b) of the
first clause of this Agreement, correspond to the General Secretariat of
Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the National Health System, in its
condition of Responsible for the processing of personal data, give
the necessary indications to the SGAD in its capacity as data processor.
I lie.
Likewise, they correspond to the General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information
and Innovation of the National Health System and its General Directorate of Health
Digital and Information Systems for the National Health System the following
following obligations:
a) Collaboration with the SGAD and the ministries of the communities and citizens
autonomous authorities competent in the matter in all the necessary actions
for the correct implementation and development of the “Radar COVID” system.
b) Ensure the proper functioning of the “Radar COVID” system, in particular
cular in relation to the defense of the rights of the interested parties.
c) The permanent monitoring of the results of the “Radar COVID” system
to transfer them to the health authorities of the different Administrations
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

139/212

Public.
d) The promotion of the necessary measures for its correct development and execution.
tion within the scope of competences of the General Secretariat of Di-
gital, Information and Innovation of the National Health System, as well as the im-
pulse of the agreements that were necessary to adopt in this regard in the Council
Interterritorial of the National Health System.
e) Any other obligations necessary for the successful completion of the application
that can be addressed from the powers of the said General Secretariat.

The tenth clause says:

Tenth. Data protection, security and confidentiality regime.
1. The personal data protection regime in the actions
that are developed in execution of this Agreement will be the one foreseen in the Re-
general data protection regulations and in Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, and other applicable regulations on data protection.
2. The parties will ensure compliance with Royal Decree 3/2010, of 8
January, which regulates the National Security Scheme in the field of
Electronic Administration.
3. All information provided by the parties and all information generated
as a consequence of the execution of this Agreement, will have the treatment
confidential, without prejudice to the information that is in the public domain,
being able to be disclosed or facilitated to third parties, nor used for a different purpose
provided in this document, without the unanimous agreement of the parties.
4. The obligation of confidentiality for the parties will be extended indefinitely.
mind even if the Agreement had expired. All this without prejudice to the
eventual authorization of the parties or, as the case may be, that said information
sara to be considered public domain.

FORTIETH: On October 22, 2020, the METD publishes this note of
press:

“The main telephone operators undertake not to affect the con-
sum of data from the RadarCOVID app to its users. (…)

The Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, Carmen Artigas,
held a meeting this morning with representatives of the main
telephone operators in the country with the aim of establishing ways of collaborating
tion for the dissemination of the RadarCOVID contact tracing mobile application.

The meeting is part of a series of sectoral meetings with different
actors, institutions and companies to explore possible support models
for the expansion and implementation among citizens of this digital tool.”
FORTY-FIRST: The Radar COVID App is registered in the Registry of
treatment activities (RAT) of the MSND, SGSDII, in the following terms:

RESPONSIBLE:
GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF DIGITAL HEALTH, INFORMATION AND INNOVATION
OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM. Paseo del Prado, 18. 20. Madrid 28071.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

140/212

sgsdii@sanidad.gob.es
DATA PROTECTION DELEGATE Head of the General Inspection of
Ministry services. delegateprotecciondatos@mscbs.es
PURPOSES OF TREATMENT:
The purpose of the treatment is to facilitate the traceability of contacts in relation to the
pandemic caused by COVID-19 through user alerts.
LEGAL BASIS OF THE TREATMENT:
• Essential public interest in the specific field of public health, and for the pro-
protection of the vital interests of those affected and of other natural persons protected
of what is established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of April 27, 2016.
• Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and ga-
guarantee of digital rights.
• Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health
•Organic Law 3/1986, of April 14, on Special Measures in Health Matters
Public.
• Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.
• Royal Decree 463/2020 of March 14, declaring the state of alarm
for the management of the health crisis situation caused by COVID.19 that
attributes to the Ministry of Health the necessary competence throughout the national territory.
nal.
• Ministerial Order SND/297/2020 of March 27, which entrusts the
Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, of the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development of new actions.
INTERESTED CATEGORIES
People who have voluntarily downloaded the mobile application have been
diagnosed as a positive case in COVID and have sent the code provided by
the health services of the CCAAs in the application.
PERSONAL DATA CATEGORIES:
The data handled by the application does not allow the direct identification of the
user or your device or your geolocation.
As part of the COVID-19 contagion alert system, the
following data for users who have tested positive for COVID.19 for
purposes specified below:
o The temporary exposure keys with which the user's device has generated
sent random codes (Bluetooth ephemeral identifiers), to the dis-
positives with which the user has come into contact, up to a maximum of 14
past days.
o A 12-digit single-use confirmation code provided by the authorities.
health measures in case of a positive test for COVID.19.
Voluntary questionnaire to collect information on user experience

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

141/212

of the application, understanding of it or perception of privacy, among
others.
RECIPIENTS CATEGORIES:
Application user.
INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS:
Not foreseen, except legal obligation.
DELETION PERIOD
Temporary exposure keys and ephemeral Bluetooth identifiers are
stored on the device for a period of 14 days, after which
they are eliminated.
Likewise, the temporary exhibition codes that have been communicated to the service
dor by USERS diagnosed as positive for COVID-19 also se-
They will be removed from the server after 14 days.
TECHNICAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL SECURITY MEASURES:
The security measures implemented correspond to those provided for in the
Annex II (Security measures) of Royal Decree 3/2010, of January 8, by which
the National Security Scheme is regulated in the field of Administration
Electronic and that are described in the documents that make up the Po-
data protection and information security policy of the Ministry.

FORTY-SECOND: There is no proof that SEDIA sought the advice-
training of the METD data protection delegate, when carrying out the evaluation of
impact on data protection.
FORTY-THIRD: On September 9, 2020, the
Open publication of the source code of the “Radar COVID” system:
radar-covid-android – RadarCOVID App for Android - 9 Sept 2020 – GitHub -
RadarCOVID/radar-covid-android at 67a4506cc43a20062e87aebd5caa6be2ea0f6482
radar-covid-ios – iOS Application for RadarCOVID – 9 Sept 2020 – GitHub - Radar-
COVID/radar-covid-ios at 118d6239fc42e369db83e0f2555b62d3e72fc1be
radar-covid-backend-dp3t-server – DPT3 Server - 9 Sept 2020 – GitHub - Radar-
COVID/radar-covid-backend-dp3t-server at 2ea39a5e03ad3da1ff4c7f6567be6b778f-
b79c7d
FORTY-FOURTH: In the response to the request dated 26
October 2020, notified to SEDIA, the existence of a vulnerability is confirmed.
which is corrected in the rise corresponding to October 8, for the following
app versions:
1.Android version 1.0.9
2. Apple, version 1.0.8
It is confirmed that as of October 8, a total of 3,059 codes had been declared.
gos at a national level, although it is true that at the date of publication of the source code
(9/Sep), a total of 574 codes had already been reported.
FORTY-FIFTH: In January 2022, the following information continues to be provided:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

142/212

training in the "Frequently Asked Questions" of the website: https://radarcovid.gob.es/faq-da-
personal-and-privacy:

How is my privacy protected?
Throughout the design and development process of Radar COVID, the protection
of your privacy has been a priority.
Here is a list of some of the measures with which Radar COVID pro-
get your data:
• The application does not collect any data that allows you to trace your identity. By
example, it will not ask you and will not be able to know your name, surnames, address
tion, phone number or email address.

• The application does not collect any geolocation data, including that of the
GPS. In addition, it does not track your movements either.
cough.

• The Bluetooth Low Energy code that is transmitted to the
through the app is randomly generated and does not contain any in-
training on your smartphone or on you.

• In addition, this code changes several times every hour to protect even

more your privacy.

• The data stored on your mobile phone is encrypted.
• The connections between the application and the server are encrypted.
• All the data, both those that are saved in the device (international codes)
exchanged with other mobile phones) are deleted after 14 days.
• Likewise, the data collected on the server, coming from the telephones
phones where a positive diagnosis for COVID-19 has been reported, are
deleted after 14 days.

• No data stored on mobile phones or on the server allows

the identification neither of the mobile device itself nor of the user thereof

Does Radar COVID share or sell my data?
Radar COVID does not collect personal data of any kind. only store in
mobile devices information about the codes coming from other te-
mobile phones that have been in close proximity to your phone. these codes
they do not allow to identify neither the device nor its user.
The server with which the applications communicate in case of reporting a
positive diagnosis by COVID-19, it only stores the codes that it has generated
The infected person's phone has been hacked in the last 14 days. Again, it's-
These codes are random and do not allow to identify neither the mobile device nor the
Username.
For all of the above, Radar COVID does not handle information that may be
sold or used for any commercial purpose, including the creation of
profiles for advertising purposes. This project is not for profit.
being created exclusively to help fight the epidemic. I don't know
chart the analysis of aggregated data on the volume of downloads of the application
tion, volume of infected users, or other anonymous indicators and aggregation
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

143/212

gados, for scientific research projects.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control and according to what is established in articles 47, 48, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the AEPD is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency shall be governed by the provisions of the Regulations
to (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions
dictated in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, on a subsidiary basis, by
the general rules on administrative procedures.”

III

SEDIA is accused of committing several infractions for violating the
articles: 5.1.a), 5.2, 12, 13, 25, 28.3 and 28.10 and 35 of the RGPD.
The infractions are typified in articles 83.5.a), 83.5.b) and 83.4.a) of the RGPD and
are qualified, for the sole purpose of determining the statute of limitations, in the
articles 72.1.a) and h) and 73.d), k), m) and t) of the LOPDGDD.

Article 83.5.a) and b) of the RGPD indicates:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000
or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4%
of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year, optionally
dosed for the highest amount:
a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "they constitute infractions
nes the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to this law
organic”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Article 72. Infractions considered very serious.
1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and the infractions that occur will prescribe after three years.
put a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:
a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

144/212

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
 (…)
h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulations
to (EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

For its part, article 83.4.a) of the RGPD indicates:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000
or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 2% maximum
of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year, optionally
being for the highest amount: a) the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge
according to articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43;”

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Article 73. Infringements considered serious. Depending on what is established by the
article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered serious and will prescribe
after two years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
(…)
d) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to effectively apply the principles of data protection.
from the design, as well as the non-integration of the necessary guarantees in the
treatment, in the terms required by article 25 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679. (…)
k) Entrust the processing of data to a third party without the prior formalization of a
contract or other written legal act with the content required by article 28.3
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)
m) The infraction by a person in charge of the treatment of the provisions of the Regulation-
ment (EU) 2016/679 and in this organic law, when determining the purposes and
means of treatment, in accordance with the provisions of article 28.10 of the aforementioned
regulation. (…)
t) The processing of personal data without having carried out the evaluation of the
Impact of processing operations on the protection of personal data
in the cases in which it is required.”

Likewise, article 83.7 of the RGPD says:

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on
whether, and to what extent, administrative fines can be imposed on authorities
and public bodies established in that Member State.

In this sense, the LOPDGDD in its article 77, under the heading "Regime applicable to
certain categories of data controllers or processors”, establishes the
Next:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

145/212

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments
of which they are responsible or entrusted:

(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous units and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

(…)

2. When the persons in charge or persons in charge listed in section 1
had any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent
will issue a resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution
It will also establish the measures that should be adopted so that the con-
conduct or correct the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who have the
Interested party status, if any.
3. Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding section, the protection authority
data collection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when
there are sufficient indications for it. In this case, the procedure and
The sanctions to be applied will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary regime.
plinary or sanctioning that results from application. Likewise, when the infractions
are attributable to authorities and directors, and the existence of in-
technical forms or recommendations for treatment that would not have been
duly attended to, the resolution in which the sanction is imposed will include
A reprimand will be issued with the name of the responsible position and the
publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.
4. The resolutions must be communicated to the data protection authority
that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the
previous sections.
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions
logs of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions
tions issued under this article.
6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
tions referring to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication
identification of the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that would have co-
committed the infraction. When the competence corresponds to a self-governing authority
nomic of data protection will be, in terms of the advertising of these re-
solutions, to the provisions of its specific regulations”.

In summary, the LOPDGDD does not authorize the imposition of administrative fines, but rather a sanction
warning, that is, without any economic effect.

IV

In relation to the allegations adduced to the resolution proposal, we proceed to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

146/212

respond to them according to the order set out by SEDIA:

I. BACKGROUND

Certainly, dated February 26, 2021, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the RGPD, and in accordance
In accordance with the provisions of article 67 of the LOPDGDD, the SGID issued a report
of previous investigation actions and on May 21, 2021, the AEPD
agreed to initiate the disciplinary proceedings.

Regarding the beginning of the preliminary investigation actions, the Judgment of the Au-
National Science (SAN), 4988/2007, October 17, 2007, justifies the convenience of
previous investigative actions in relation to sanctioning procedures
dors stating that:

“It is that due to the seriousness and transcendence that the exercise of the
power to sanction, since the legal status of someone who is subject to a
sanctioning file, for this single circumstance, it can be found negative
severely affected, it is necessary that the decision to initiate the procedure
sanctioning party is founded and based on solid reasons that require such
initiation.

That is, with the purpose of allowing the Administration to know the facts
foreseeable offenders, the concurrent circumstances and the persons
intervening parties, it is allowed to carry out said investigative actions
prior investigation or investigation, as necessary and timely to verify
to what extent, there is a rational basis to understand the fact produced in-
fraudster, and impute it to a specific person.”

Article 67 of the LOPDGDD establishes that:

“Before the adoption of the agreement to initiate the procedure, and once the
processes the claim, if any, the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data may carry out preliminary investigation actions in order to achieve
a better determination of the facts and circumstances that justify the
processing of the procedure. The Spanish Data Protection Agency
will act in any case when it is necessary to investigate treatments that
involves massive traffic of personal data”.

It should be noted that article 53 of the LOPDGDD determines the "Scope of the activity
research capacity”:

"1. Those who develop the research activity may collect the information
precise instructions for the performance of their duties, carry out inspections
nes, require the exhibition or sending of the necessary documents and data,
examine them in the place where they are deposited or where they are
treatments are carried out, obtain a copy of them, inspect the physical equipment
physical and logical and require the execution of treatments and programs or procedures
Treatment management and support procedures subject to investigation. (…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

147/212

Thus, and taking into account the above considerations, the Agency can
carry out the investigations it deems appropriate regardless of whether
whether or not you have filed a claim, after which you can decide to initiate an ex officio
penalty procedure (article 68 of the LOPDGDD).
In relation to the allegations made by SEDIA, we must state that the
AEPD in the exercise of its powers, as conferred by articles 57 and 58
of the RGPD in which its functions and powers are established respectively, requested
SEDIA the information it considered appropriate to clarify the disputed facts
and determine the actions carried out by SEDIA, specifically with respect to the role
cided in relation to the processing of personal data through the application.

II. ALLEGATIONS.

The allegations made to the preliminary investigation actions, to the agreement of
beginning and during the test period, were answered in the proposed resolution
dated January 26, 2022.

 A) Regarding the ARGUMENTS OF A GENERAL NATURE:

It refers to RADAR COVID as an additional tool and to Royal Decree 463/2020,
of March 14. It argues that, in this context, SEDIA, as the person in charge of
procedure, acted in accordance with the instructions given at all times by the MSND,
as delegated authority of the Government in matters of public health and responsible for the
treatment. Reasons that, although these indications were not reflected as required
regulations, was due to the fact that the state of alarm made it difficult to formalize the instruments
usual procedures provided for in the legislation for these cases in circumstances
normal. It refers to the meetings held which were attended by representatives of the
MSND, SEDIA and the company awarded the emergency contract, in the
that the necessary decisions were made to advance in the development of the pilot and
the application.

In this sense, from the taking of the evidence and in relation to the meetings held
and that appear in the proven facts, the existence of any
indication “instruction” by the MSND that covers the actions carried out
rolled by SEDIA. Nor in the referenced letter of June 9, 2020, giving
the go-ahead for the development of the mobile application. And with respect to the whole community
cation and contacts that he claims to have had with the MSND does not provide any evidence either.
guna, not even an email.

In any case, these “indications” to which he alludes are not enough to articulate the
relationship between the person responsible and the person in charge of the treatment, a relationship that cannot be
considered as a mere administrative formality or as an exchange of opinions
but as a means to seek the defense and protection of the Fundamental Law
critical to the protection of personal data, especially when the relationship is
established between the bodies of the same Public Administration or between different Ad-
Public administrations to whom it corresponds "to promote the conditions so that the
freedom and equality of the individual and of the groups in which he is integrated are real and
effective; remove the obstacles that prevent or hinder its fullness and facilitate the participation
participation of all citizens in political, economic, cultural and social life”,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

148/212

Article 9.2 of the Spanish Constitution.

In conclusion, the existence of the instructions received from the res-
responsible for the treatment, in the terms described above, unknown
their content, scope, issues, dates on which they were supplied, or what has been
the action, response and report provided by SEDIA, as a consequence of these.

In any case, even if informal communications between the
parties to provide instructions, we must mean that article 28.1.a) of the
RGPD imposes that the instructions that govern the relationship between controllers and processors
treatment outcomes are documented. And it is that, the instructions to the
that the RGPD mentions are still internal documents with effects on the re-
relationship between the controller and the data processor within the framework of a contract
treatment manager; treatment manager contract or other legal act
co which does not exist in the present case.

Therefore, it is not accredited by SEDIA that it acted following
MSND instructions.

B) Regarding the SPECIFIC ALLEGATIONS:

B.1 Regarding the processing of personal data.

It refers to the fact that the right to data protection is not absolute and invokes article 3
of the Civil Code. It argues that the requirement and application of the regulations for the protection of
data in such special and atypical circumstances, must be balanced and weighted
and that the Agency cannot act as if the state of alarm had not existed.
do.

In this sense, the fundamental right to data protection is not suspended by
the mere declaration of a state of alarm, but this suspension is limited
to the cases of declaration of a state of emergency or siege, as established by the
article 55.1 of the CE. In the state of alarm, only the exercise of
rights, but not suspend them.

In this specific case, the state of alarm was declared, which did not mean, in any
In some cases, the suspension of fundamental rights.

In addition, the personal data protection regulations (RGPD) itself contain the
safeguards and rules necessary to legitimately allow data processing.
personal cough in situations, such as the one that occurred, in which there was an emergency
general healthcare.

He also argues that the data was not real (they were test), that the codes of con-
tagged for introduction in the App were false and that when the App was opened in
La Gomera to the public, people could not enter real data of being infected-
two. Specifically, this allegation will be analyzed in FD V of this Resolution.
tion.

Invokes the legality of the treatment and refers to the Report of the AEPD 17/2020, of 12

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

149/212

March, highlighting the basis related to articles 6.1.d) and 6.1.e) of the RGPD. Effective-
mind, the data processing must be based on a lawful cause (article 6 RGPD)
and it must be transparent for those affected (articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD). Therefore, the
lack of information or transparency implies a breach of the principles of
Data Protection. This aspect will be analyzed in FD IX of this Resolution.

B.2 Regarding the role of the SGAD in data processing

1st. The stage in which the pilot project is done.
 
It refers again to the approval received on June 9, 2020 by the Di-
General Directorate of Public Health (sic) of the MSND where it is considered the responsibility
responsible for the processing of the pilot's data to the health authority of the Community in
that it was going to take place. We will analyze these facts in FD VII of this Resolution.
tion.

Regarding the following statement made by SEDIA: "Since SEDIA remains as
responsible for processing the data and results”, nothing is said about it in the
mandate received on June 9, 2020.

This Agency agrees that the participation of the DGSP, previously
tes GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC HEALTH, QUALITY AND INNOVATION, in the
weekly meetings of the pilot to define the ends and means of the project.
unto Similarly, the same statement can be made regarding the participation of
the SEDIA.

And, although the data related to health handled in the pilot were simulated data
of infection (non-real data), personal data was processed, an issue that will be
rrolled in the FD V of this Resolution.

2º.- The stage in which the application is launched in the testing phase and post-
riorly the ultimate app.

It refers to the Agreement of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, of 19
August 2020, which allowed the Autonomous Communities to temporarily assume, until the
signing of the agreements, the management of the positive diagnosis codes and the
route presented by the President of the Government to deal with the rise of the “se-
second epidemiological curve”, which among other measures cited, the reinforcement of the media
digital tracking, asking citizens to use RADAR COVID. adduces
that, in the Agreement, of October 9, 2020, which empowers the SGAD to subscribe
Agreements with Autonomous Communities and Cities, the following is specified-
te: “in the aforementioned collaboration agreements, the Ministry of Health and the Con-
Ministry competent in matters of health of the Autonomous Community or City of
in question will appear as responsible for the processing of personal data.
nal and the SGAD as the person in charge of the treatment.” And specifies part of the attributions
tions that according to their condition, compete to some and to others.

Nothing new contributes this allegation that was already the object of a detailed analysis in
the motion for a resolution (FD VII) and which will again be refuted in FD VII of this
Resolution.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

150/212

The AEPD does not agree with the statement made by SEDIA regarding the existence of
It has been fully accredited that at all times and in accordance with the
legally binding instruments, the SGAD acted solely and exclusively as an entity
charged with the treatment, because it is not until the agreement of the Agreement of the
Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, of August 19, 2020, when
do, for the first time, this condition is recognized.
In addition, according to proven fact twenty-seven, the first version of the
EIPD, of August 12, 2020, regarding the roles of “Responsible, correspondent-
responsible and in charge of the treatment” provided:

In this case, the owner of the application is the General Secretariat of Administration.
Digital transformation dependent on the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transformation
Digital Information, which is also constituted as Responsible for the Treatment
I lie.

The application has been developed through the Secretary of State for Digi-
talization and Artificial Intelligence (SEDIA).

On the other hand, SEDIA has provided two links that lead to two documents of the
MSND:

1. Strategy for early detection, surveillance and control of covid-19.

2. Implementation procedure of the Radar COVID app as a complement
promotion of manual contact identification systems, coordinated by
the Coordination Center for Health Alerts and Emergencies, General Directorate
General Public Health, Quality and Innovation and approved by the Conference of
Alerts and Preparedness and Response Plans.

And he insists that, at all times, both in the development of the pilot, and in the use of
RADAR COVID in tests by the CCAA, and in its use, once said test phase has been
bas, the roles of controller and processor were defined, and it refers
again, to the letter of June 9, 2020, to the Agreement of the Interterritorial Council and to the
Agreement published in the BOE on October 15.

In relation to this argument, we refer to the foregoing. THE SEDIA
does not appear as in charge of the treatment until the Agreement of the Con-
interterritorial Council. The GDPR lists the elements that must be established in the
contract or legal act (article 28.3 RGPD). However, the agreement of the In-
territorial only had: The person in charge of the treatment will be, in both cases,
the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence. That is, it did not stipulate
no other more specific and concrete information on how the requirements would be met.
requirements of the agreement. Subsequently, based on the Agreement published in the BOE on 15
October, the one that will appear as in charge of the treatment will be the SGAD.

In short, SEDIA appears as the person in charge of the treatment from the Agreement
of the Interterritorial Council and exercises this condition until the holding
of the corresponding agreements with the CCAA, in which it will assume the condition of
in charge of the treatment, the SGAD.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

151/212

Regarding SEDIA's disagreement with some of the statements made
by the Agency regarding the METD Press Releases, since they do not attribute
no competence, this issue is not discussed by the Agency.

Article 2.1 of Law 50/1997, of November 27, of the Government provides: The President
dente directs the action of the Government and coordinates the functions of the other members
thereof, without prejudice to the competence and direct responsibility of the Ministers
in its management.

Likewise, article 3.1.d) of Law 3/2015, of March 30, regulating the exercise
of the high position of the General Administration of the State, applicable to the members of the
Government and the Secretaries of State, provides for the observance of the principle of transparency
reference and responsibility in the following terms: they will adopt their decisions in a
transparent and will be responsible for the consequences derived from its adoption.
tion.

On the other hand, the LRJSP, in article 3.1.c) provides that the Public Administrations
cas must respect a series of principles in their actions and relations, among them, the
transparency of administrative action.

Likewise, Law 19/2013, of December 9, on transparency, access to information
public governance and good governance, in article 26 under the heading “Principles of good governance”.
government”, provides that the persons included in its scope of application (members
government officials, Secretaries of State, other senior officials of the AGE, etc.) in addition to
will conform their activity to the “Principles of action”, among them, the one foreseen in the section
do 7º that refers to the performance of its functions with transparency.

In sum, the press releases, beyond being considered, according to SEDIA,
as “simple announcements made by the METD to inform citizens and
god of communication, of activities that were planned or in progress
tion”, disseminated information by the METD, facilitating knowledge by the
citizenship of the information related to contact tracing and the decisions adopted
give about it.

They are, therefore, one more proof of the activity carried out by SEDIA in relation to
with the COVID Radar app.

Regarding the fact that it was the Government that promoted the creation of this application and urged
the population to the use of RADAR COVID, it should be noted that, article 97 of the Constitution
Constitution attributes political and executive functions to the Government, a binomial that has its
reflected in all government action and that is also projected on the community relationship
nicative that in a democratic system exists between the rulers and the ruled.

The Government is undoubtedly the subject and object of information and political assessment;
but, as the ultimate person in charge of the General Administration of the State (in the
successively, AGE) and precisely because of the executive function that constitutionally
entrusted to you, is the issuer of a series of messages addressed to citizens
that are included under the generic name of institutional advertising campaigns.
and communication, as stated in the explanatory statement of the Law

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

152/212

29/2005, of December 29, on Publicity and Institutional Communication.

SEDIA rejects the Agency's interpretation of its role with regard to citizenship.
and alleges that he simply contributed, in collaboration with the entire Government, to
provide solutions in the field of its powers to promote the digitization of
public administrations (and all this, without taking into account the existence of categories
legal entities such as those responsible for and in charge of data protection treatment
data difficult to grasp for the common recipients).

Well then, the legal categories to which he refers are legal concepts determined
mined in article 4.7) and 4.8) of the RGPD and play a crucial role in the application
tion of the RGPD, since they determine who is responsible for compliance with the dis-
regulations regarding data protection and how interested parties can exercise
their rights in practice.

Regarding that, due to the fact of collaborating, promoting and having a relevant role in in-
try to convince the population of the use of RADAR COVID and offer explanations of
the characteristics of the application in the media, can not lead to
the conclusion that another role different from the one assigned in the do-
documents repeatedly mentioned, we refer to the provisions of the Guidelines
07/2020 on the concepts of "data controller" and "processor"
tion” in the RGPD, which in section 25 says:

“In the absence of responsibility for the treatment derived from provisions
legal requirements, the qualification of a party as a "controller" must
be established on the basis of an assessment of the factual circumstances
in which the treatment takes place. To reach a conclusion about whether a
particular entity exerts a determining influence in relation to the treatment
of the personal data in question, all circumstances must be taken into account.
pertinent facts of fact.”

And the circumstances in fact refer us to the same starting point. That is, when treating
processing of personal data by SEDIA during the execution of the project
lotto, without having a contract or other legal act that linked it with the Directorate
General Public Health, Quality and Innovation, as required by current regulations.

In this sense, section 102 of Guidelines 07/2020 says:

“Furthermore, the contract or other legal act under Union Law or
of the Member States must bind the processor against the controller;
that is, it must impose binding obligations on the processor under the
law of the Union or of the Member States. You must also set the
duties of the manager. In most cases, there will be a contra-
but the Regulation also refers to "another legal act", such as
a national rule (of primary or secondary law) or other legal instrument
co. If the legal act does not include all the minimum content required, it must include
supplemented with a contract or other legal act that includes the elements that
missing.”

B.3 Regarding the role of INDRA

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

153/212

It alludes to the fact that SEDIA, in its capacity as data processor, counted from the
first moment, with the authorization of the MSND, as the data controller,
for the contracting of INDRA, which had sufficient guarantees to guarantee
ticize the application of the RGPD.

Regarding this allegation, it should be noted that the proposed resolution does not impose
bitch the infringement of article 28.1 of the RGPD.

B.4 Regarding Impact Assessments

It insists that, although the EIPD published in September 2020 was version 1.1, it already
version 1.0 existed prior to August 19, 2020. The DPIA provided to
the AEPD was version 1.1 because it is the one that was published, coinciding with the deployment
in September 2020 of a version of the application, with support for co-official languages
them.

He argues that, during the period from August 19 to publication in September
In September 2020, there was an internal debate on whether or not to publish it.
It invokes the sole legal personality of the AGE; adds that, holds the status of
responsible and in charge of the treatment through different bodies and does not come
publishing neither the EIPD, nor the Risk Analysis on which they are based, of the systems
more than develop

He reasons that the SGAD sought criteria from the METD's data protection delegate. Their
The criterion was that, in general, these documents should not be published.

In any case, it finally published the DPIA and the Risk Analysis in September
2020.

On the other hand, it questions the criterion of the AEPD, page 189 of the resolution proposal.
tion, which qualifies as "more reprehensible" the lack of implementation of the EIPD at the time
timely and insists that at that time, during the pilot project, they used
simulated data, and although it was done at a time after the start-up
pilot, it was done prior to the moment in which the application was going to handle
jar user health data.

In this sense, the EIPD is a preventive tool that must be carried out
the data controller to be able to identify, assess and manage the risks to
those who are exposed to their treatment activities with the aim of guaranteeing
the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

In fact, another of the circumstances that identifies SEDIA as responsible for the
treatment, is that, through the SGAD, it was the body of the METD, in charge of cele-
Open the “Hiring Agreement” that had the purpose of hiring the services
of design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system that allows the traceability of
contacts in relation to the pandemic caused by COVID-1, an aspect that developed
we called in the FD VIII. Confirms this fact, the “Condition specifications for the design,
development, pilot and evaluation of a system that allows the tracing of contacts in re-
relationship with the pandemic caused by COVID-19” dated June 10 and 12,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

154/212

2020, which requires/orders a series of deliverables, including the DPIA.

B.5 Regarding the conditions of use and privacy policy

It refers to the fact that the first version of the App (pilot) was used to check aspects
such as usability, perception of privacy, and effectiveness of the solution in an en-
simulated lathe.

It also included a notice about voluntary participation in a pilot experience
with fictitious COVID-19 infection alert data on the island of La Gomera.
  
He adds that the documents have been reviewed and updated with the aim of improving
rar its content and facilitate its reading and understanding, making use of its faculty of
proactive responsibility.

And that with each update of the application, consent was requested again
users express.

Regarding those responsible for the treatment, it refers to the current Privacy Policy.
(https://radarcovid.gob.es/politica-de-privacidad) that establishes as responsibility
responsible for the treatment to the MSND and CCAA, and as in charge of the treatment to the SGAD.

It justifies the increase of the 700 words with the more extensive explanations, as well
such as the extension to new uses of the application, or the interoperability with the applications
contact tracing cations of the European Union, which has led to its updating
tion, in order to provide transparency and information to users.

Remember that the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy have always been
accessible to interested parties, both from the mobile application and from the web
http://radarcovid.gob.es.
He adds that he has not received any complaint from the data protection delegate of the
MSND and that in the FAQ section of the website: https://radarcovid.-
gob.es/faq-datos-personales-y-privacidad, certain information is collected.
Well, it is true that it collects the information it claims, which is also made visible
with 16 vignettes, when in reality there are 9 aspects reported. The GDPR details the
information that must be provided to the interested party in the initial phase of the treatment, in the
Article 13, which contemplate the categories of information that must be provided to
interested parties when the data is obtained from it. This information has the character
ter of basic (article 11.1 LOPDGDD) and must be provided in a concise, transparent
clear, intelligible and easily accessible.
From the proven facts, the conclusion is drawn that the transparency of the information
Training provided throughout the various implementation phases of the pilot project
and the Radar COVID application, has been confusing, verbose and contradictory, observed
from the different sources that it emanated.
In fact, in February 2022, the contact details of the
data protection officer (hereinafter, DPD).
One of the keys to being able to guarantee privacy is being able to demonstrate it, verify it,
Do that the treatment is consistent with the information provided. data transparency
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

155/212

is established as a pillar to demonstrate diligence and proactive responsibility before
the control authority and as a measure of confidence before the subjects whose data is
treated. As established in recital 39 of the RGPD, for natural persons
it must be absolutely clear that they are being collected, used, consulted or processed.
otherwise using personal data that concerns them, as well as the extent to which
that said data is or will be processed.
Lastly, other factual circumstances that identify SEDIA as res-
responsible for the treatment, is that the SGAD was identified as the owner of the application,
and it was this that defined the content of the Conditions of Use and the Privacy Policy.
application city. Let us remember that it is the data controller who must
adopt internal policies and apply measures that comply in particular with the principles of
data protection by design and by default (considering 78 RGPD).

B.6

 Regarding the vulnerabilities detected

He reasons that the scenario in which the vulnerability could be exploited was considered very remote.
ity, with a third party with sufficient capacity to spy on communications networks and
to cross the information sent by RADAR COVID, which would allow establishing a
relationship between the identity of the user and their positive medical condition for COVID-
19.

He argues that this judgment was correct, since it has not been detected nor is there any evidence
evidence that this theoretical vulnerability has been exploited or taken advantage of and that
there is no computer system that is 100% secure, and for this reason, it was decided, once
Given these circumstances, to continue development.

The fact that the vulnerability was corrected does not mean that the violation was not committed.
would put

Any application that is going to use personal data must be conceived and designed
starts from scratch identifying, a priori, the possible risks to the rights and freedoms
of the interested parties and minimize them so that they do not materialize in damages.

It is worth bringing up, again, the "Background" of the "Tender Specifications for
the design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system that allows the tracking of con-
tacts in relation to the pandemic caused by COVID-19” dated 10 and 12
June 2020, which read as follows:

 

“Being of general interest for the Government of the Nation to respond to the objective
common objective of contributing to the management of the occasional health crisis
given by COVID-19, the Secretary of State for Digitization and Intelligence
 
Artificial
  of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, through
 
 -
 
through the General Secretariat of Digital Administration (SGAD hereinafter),
    activities for the definition and construction
will develop a set of
 
 
 
of a system
  that enables close contact tracing (securely
 
 
 
and anonymous to the user) and its subsequent evaluation through a pilot

In relation to enabling technologies for contact tracing, there are
It should be noted that Apple and Google, companies that manage the operating systems
vos installed in practically all mobile devices worldwide,
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

156/212

announced on April 10, 2020 an alliance to create an integrated system
interoperable, integrated into the iOS and Android operating systems, for monitoring
contacts, which does not use geolocation but Bluetooth low energy.
gy (Bluetooth LE or BLE), to identify devices present at a distance
next.

The Apple/Google approach is based on the DP-3T protocol, which preserves
privacy through the use of ephemeral identifiers on which no
Reverse engineering is possible to obtain personal data from the owner.
device owner. Apple and Google released the developer kit (SDK,
https://apple.com/covid19/contracttracing) on May 20, which allowed
States to develop contact tracing solutions on
the new functions incorporated in their operating systems, always under the
tutelage of the national health authorities.

The System to be developed through this contract will make use of this
SDK, on which a mobile application will be built to enable the system to be activated.
contact tracing issue; that in connection with the health authorities
can receive a confirmation code of positive in COVID-19; and what-
via a server platform (backend) with which the application communicates.
mobile tion can be alerted to people with whom you have had a contact
narrow recently.

This fact points once again to the fact that SEDIA determined part of the essential media
of treatment when deciding to use Bluetooth technology following the model des-
centralized based on the DP-3T protocol.

In this sense, Guidelines 07/2020 in section 40 indicate:

As far as the determination of the means is concerned, a distinction must be made between the
essential and non-essential resources. Essential means are reserved
traditionally and inherently to the data controller. It is-
These must be compulsorily determined by the data controller.
although the determination of non-essential means can also leave
be in his hands. Essential media are tightly bound media
the purpose and scope of the processing, such as the type of personal data processed
(“what data will be processed?”), the duration of the treatment (“how long will
process?”), the categories of recipients (“Who will have access to the data?
data?”) and the categories of interested parties (“to whom do the personal data belong?
nals treated?»). In addition to being related to the end of the treatment, the
essential means are closely linked to the question of whether
the processing is lawful, necessary and proportionate.

III. CONCLUSION OF THE ARGUMENTS BRIEF
SEDIA alludes to the fact that it is aware that there may be discrepancies in the criteria
on the actions in which the work of starting up the
a necessary application in the context of a pandemic, with a state of emergency
declared. He adds that he has always acted with proactive responsibility, collaborating
with the AEPD in everything requested.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

157/212

In fact, he alleges that he requested a report from the AEPD at the time it was scheduled
the extension of the application to the Autonomous Communities in August 2020, at which time
The contribution of the AEPD would have been very valuable, but the beginning of the preliminary actions
vias, determined, in the opinion of the AEPD, the impossibility of having this report.

He insists that the emergency situation and the declaration of the state of alarm altered the
ordinary legal order and the usual way of acting of the Administration.
 
The exceptional situation determined a modulation in the administrative procedures
administration and demanded to act quickly in order to be able to arrive on time and that the application
tion fulfilled its purposes.

The pertinent evaluations were made, the analyzes that allowed the haste with which
the application had to be developed and it was always acted with the ultimate goal of exercising
develop a proactive responsibility to allow adequate respect for the protection
of personal data.

In short, according to the previous arguments and reasoning, SEDIA
considers that there is no place for a warning sanction, because there has been no
flagrant, conscious and deliberate compliance with data protection regulations
and of all the articles that are cited in the proposed resolution of the sanction file.
tioner.

Regarding the conclusions reached by SEDIA, the following should be noted:

The personal data protection regulations, insofar as they are aimed at safeguarding
a fundamental right, was applied in its entirety during the declared state of alarm.
degree, since it did not produce the suspension of any fundamental right, being the
position adopted by this Agency in close collaboration with all the authorities
public entities that have requested their prior advice during the pandemic,
with the Ministry of Health, the AEPD having offered its collaboration in
different occasions to SEDIA, via email, on May 7 and 8, 2020, interestingly
by the working group in which SEDIA participated to coordinate with the
CCAA the deployment of the application.

So much so, that on April 7, 2020, the AEPD informed, at the request of the Directorate
Secretary of the Cabinet of SEDIA, on the standard Agreement with the Autonomous Communities
more for the development of the "APP" coronavirus application. On said Agreement also
Report 030/2020, dated April 6, 2020, was also issued. All these reports
were requested prior to the development of the applications, without there being
previous actions initiated by this Agency.

On the other hand, SEDIA alleges that it requested a report from the AEPD at the time that
the extension of the application to the CCAA was planned in August 2020, when
in which the contribution of the AEPD would have been very valuable, but the start of the actions
previous assessments, determined, in the opinion of the AEPD, the impossibility of having this information.
form. As SEDIA is well aware, comments were provided to the draft
of "Agreement between the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence and
the Ministry of Health of the Autonomous Community of….on adherence to the use
of the RADAR COVID19 application”, as she admits in the letter dated September 1,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

158/212

December 2020 in which they respond to a request for information dated August 18,
2020 (notified on the 29th of the same month and year). However, it should be qualified
that said observations made by the Legal Office do not refer to the object
of this sanctioning procedure, but are related only to the
draft of the aforementioned agreement.

Finally, regarding the alleged emergency situation, due to the principle of
legality, in accordance with article 9 of the Spanish Constitution, citizens and
Public powers are subject to the Constitution and the rest of the legal system, without
that there was, as has been indicated, a suspension of the fundamental right to
protection of personal data, as early indicated by this Agency in its in-
form 17/2020.

IV. SUPPLEMENTARY CONSIDERATIONS
Regarding the request for the practice of the test consisting of making available
the SGAD of the following documentation that is considered essential for the
exercise of the defense in the sanctioning procedure:

a) Proposed resolution of the Instructor in relation to the procedure
opened against the MSND, in order to assess the criteria of the AEPD in relation to
the activity carried out by said department which, although it enjoys the same
legal personality that SEDIA is treated by the AEPD as a separate entity
red.

b) Full reports of the Legal Office of the AEPD cited that are cited in
the Ninth Legal Basis (17/2020 and 32/2020) of the Proposal for
Resolution, to be able to appreciate it as a whole and accept or refute it according to
be your discretion.

The request for evidence practice made by SEDIA in its office must be rejected.
letter of allegations -also requested ex officio to a party-, and this to the extent that, the
SEDIA did not formulate any proposition of proof at the relevant procedural moment.
namely, his pleadings brief filed on November 22,
2021.

It is necessary to underline that in the course of the procedure, SEDIA already benefited from
an extraordinary trial period for a period of ten additional days to the initial 30
cially granted. That is, the test practice covered the maximum period allowed
regulated by the LPACAP (article 77.2).

On the other hand, although SEDIA and the MSND act to fulfill their purposes
under the umbrella of the single legal personality of the AGE, it is organized in Pre-
Government and Ministries, each comprising one or several
various functionally homogeneous sectors of administrative activity (article 57.1
LRJSP).

In turn, each Ministerial Department has a structure of superior bodies
managers and directors provided for in Royal Decree 139/2020, of January 28, which assume
a certain bundle of competences that will be analyzed in the FD VII.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

159/212

The Judgment of the Supreme Court (STS) 5298/1994, of July 9, 1994, indicates:
“…the sanctioning power of the Administration enjoys the same nature
than criminal power, so consequently, the structural guidelines
administrative offenses also tend, as in criminal offenses, to achieve the
individualization of responsibility, prohibiting any attempt to build
an objective responsibility or based on the simple relationship with a thing, for
  not enough
 
 
consequently in the field of
that the conduct is unlawful and typical, but it is also necessary that
    to its
is guilty, that is, as a result of an action or omission
 
 
Author
    by malice or recklessness, negligence or inexcusable ignorance (STC,
 
Room of article 61 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, of November 6
of 1990)”

 administrative responsibility
 

 chargeable
 

 

For this reason, even though SEDIA acts with a single legal personality, according to the principle
principle of responsibility provided for in article 28 of the LRJSP:

“They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes them
capacity to act, affected groups, unions and entities without personal
legal purpose and independent or autonomous estates, which result
responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence.”

However, the mode of attribution of liability to legal persons is not
corresponds to the forms of willful or reckless guilt that are imputable
ble to human behavior. Thus, in the case of offenses committed by
legal persons, although the element of guilt must concur, it is
necessarily applied differently from the way it is applied to natural persons.
case
According to the STC 246/1991 "(...) this different construction of the imputability of the auto-
ria of the infraction to the legal person arises from the very nature of legal fiction
to which these subjects respond. They lack the volitional element in the strict sense.
but not the ability to break the rules to which they are subject.
Capacity for infringement and, therefore, direct blame that derives from the legal right
co-protected by the rule that is violated and the need for such protection to be
really effective and for the risk that, consequently, must be assumed by the legal entity
which is subject to compliance with said rule" (in this sense STS of 24 November
November 2011, Rec 258/2009).
To the above must be added, following the judgment of January 23, 1998, partially
transcribed in the SSTS of October 9, 2009, Rec 5285/2005, and of October 23,
October 2010, Rec 1067/2006, that "although the culpability of the conduct must also
also be tested, must be considered in order to assume the correspondence
tooth load, which ordinarily the necessary volitional and cognitive elements
to appreciate it are part of the typical behavior tested, and that their exclusion
requires that the absence of such elements be proven, or in its normative aspect,
that the diligence that was required by the person who alleges its non-existence has been used; No
suffices, in short, to exculpate a typically unlawful behavior.
with the invocation of the absence of guilt".

Regarding the complete reports of the Legal Office requested, the report
032/2020 was sent to SEDIA on Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:56 p.m. via mail
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

160/212

email and was addressed to:

A.A.B. <***EMAIL.1>;

Z.Z.Z. <***EMAIL.2>

Regarding report 17/2020, it is available on the AEPD website: https://
www.aepd.es/es/documento/2020-0017.pdf.

Based on the foregoing considerations, the allegations are dismissed.

v

Radar COVID is an application for mobile devices that promotes public health.
Public through a COVID-19 infection alert system.

The Execution Decision (EU) 2020/1023 of the Commission of July 15, 2020, which
modifies the Execution Decision (EU) 2019/1765, regarding the exchange
cross-border data transfer between national mobile conflict-tracing applications
tacts and warning to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, defined in article 1
the following concepts:

h) “contact tracing” or “contact tracing”: the measures applied to se-
keep track of people who have been exposed to a source of threat
cross-border risk to health, within the meaning of Article 3, letter c) of the Decision
No. 1082/2013/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (*);

i) “national mobile application for contact tracing and warning”: an application integrated
nationally approved software that works on smart devices, particularly
cular smartphones, is typically designed for a specific interaction.
and wide-ranging with web resources and processes proximity data and other informa-
contextual information picked up by many of the sensors found in devices.
smart devices, in order to trace contacts with people infected by the
SARS-CoV-2 and to warn people who may have been exposed to the
SARS-CoV-2; These mobile applications can detect the presence of other devices.
devices that use Bluetooth and exchange information with end servers (back-
end) over the internet;

k) “key”: the unique ephemeral identifier related to a user of the application
reporting that they are infected with SARS-CoV-2, or that they may have been
exposed to SARS-CoV-2;

Likewise, article 4 of the RGPD includes the following definitions:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any
person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in part
cular by means of an identifier, such as a name, phone number,
identification, location data, an online identifier, or one or more elements
elements of physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic identity,
ca, cultural or social of said person;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

161/212

2) «processing»: any operation or set of operations carried out on
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structure-
tion, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction”.
5) "pseudonymization": the processing of personal data in such a way that it
cannot be attributed to a data subject without using additional information, provided
that such additional information is listed separately and is subject to measures
technical and organizational measures designed to ensure that personal data is not
are attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person;

15) "health-related data": personal data relating to physical health or
mental health of a natural person, including the provision of care services
healthcare, which reveal information about their health status;

Thus, considering the definitions set forth, it has been found that the application
Radar COVID cation, put into operation in different phases, has carried out treat-
tions of the personal data of the users.

This is the result of the proven facts, after being confirmed in the practice of the evidence, that
By the end of the pilot, more than 58,000 total downloads had been achieved, in
specifically 58,652 as indicated in the document "Monitoring 07.24.2020".

As recognized by SEDIA: "Although at first the
possibility of controlling access to the download of the application exclusively to the public
target audience of the pilot, residents, workers or visitors of San Sebastián de la
Gomera, it was finally decided to leave it open due to 3 key factors:

• Complexity of implementation.

• Negative impact on usability by citizens by having to enter
download access codes.

• Incorporate a factor unrelated to the operation of the application itself in the event
national deployment.”

Similarly, it has been found that aggregated information was collected from users of
the application, both from the people who downloaded it, and from the people who
assumed the role of positive cases or received alert notifications of risk of
contagion.

According to the population figures resulting from the revision of the municipal registers
referred to January 1, 2020, with effect from December 31, 2020, published
given in Royal Decree 1147/2020, of December 15, which declares official
the population figures resulting from the revision of the Municipal Register referring to the 1st of
January 2020, the island of La Gomera, had a population of 21,678 residents. in con-
Creto, San Sebastián de La Gomera, municipality where the pilot project is being developed,
it had a population of 7,779 inhabitants according to the data registered in the INE. It is-
cir, the number of total downloads of the application during the pilot project exceeded the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

162/212

number of 58,000 downloads, far exceeding the number of registered residents
on the island, which means that the application was downloaded by a very large number of users.
higher than initially planned, located in different parts of the national geography.
nal.

Regarding the concept of personal data, we must make a couple of clarifications.

In the first place, the concept of "information" provided for in article 4 of the RGPD must
understood extensively, as established by the STJUE of December 20, 2017,
in case C-434/16, Peter Nowak and Data Protection Commissioner, “evidences the
objective of the Union legislator to attribute to this concept a very broad meaning.
plio, which is not limited to confidential data or related to privacy, but
that can encompass all kinds of information, both objective and subjective, in the form of
number of opinions or assessments, provided that they are “about” the person in question”.

Second, that a vast concept of personal data is widely established.
personal, which includes the identification of a natural person directly or indirectly.
In this sense, the STJUE of October 19, 2016, in case C-582/14, Patrick
Breyer and Bundesrepublik Deutschland, clearly provides that “The use by the legislator
Union representative of the term 'indirectly' shows that, in order to qualify a piece of information
information of personal data, it is not necessary that said information allows, by itself,
identify the interested party.

At the national level we will cite for all the SAN of March 8, 2002 in which
indicates that “for a personal data to exist (as opposed to data
dissociated) a full coincidence between the data and a person is not essential
but it is enough that such an identification can be effected effortlessly.
disproportionate risks” and “to determine if a person is identifiable, it is necessary to
consider all the means that can be reasonably used by the
responsible for the treatment or by any other person, to identify said person.
sound”.

For such purposes, we must take into consideration the opinion of the Working Group
of article 29, today replaced by the CEPD, 4/2007 on the concept of personal data
in which it is stated that “a natural person can be considered «identified»
ca when, within a group of people, he is "distinguished" from all the others
group members".

Recital 26 of the RGPD prevents a series of criteria to decree if a person
natural person is or is not identifiable: “To determine whether a natural person is identifiable
possible, all means, such as singling, that reasonably
can probably be used by the data controller or any other person to
directly or indirectly identify the natural person. To determine if there is a
reasonable probability that means will be used to identify a natural person,
All objective factors must be taken into account, such as the costs and the time required.
necessary for identification, taking into account both the technology available in the
time of treatment and technological advances.

It should be noted that in the first impact assessment provided by SEDIA, fe-
Dated in September 2020, it is determined what data is “generated or to which

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

163/212

that the application accesses”, among which personal data is collected.

A first category is identified with the concept of "Personal Data" provided for in
article 4.1 of the RGPD, within which we include proximity data, or the di-
IP address, which the device uses to connect to the Internet.

Proximity data are data by which a subject is located and are,
per se, personal data. This is made clear in the CEPD Guidelines
04/2020 on the use of location data and contact tracing tools
in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The IP address is also a personal data. This question is found
fully resolved, citing to that effect, and, by all, reports 327/2003 or 213/2004
of the Legal Office of the AEPD in which it is concluded that "although it is not always
possible for all Internet agents to identify a user based on data transferred
ted on the Internet, from this Data Protection Agency we start from the idea of
that the possibility of identifying an Internet user exists in many cases and, therefore,
Therefore, both fixed and dynamic IP addresses, regardless of the type of
access, they are considered personal data resulting from the application of the regulations
It's about data protection.

The jurisprudence of the Supreme Court has also been extensive in recognizing
the IP as personal data and not only in the contentious-administrative jurisdiction.
tive, for all, STS 16/2014, of January 30 (rec. 824/2013).

We cannot fail to cite the Judgment of the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of
the National Court of September 1, 2011 (rec. 625/2009) in which it was
establishes that the IP address is a personal data, understanding that "The criterion
of identifiability is basic to understand that the IP address should be considered
given as personal data and, therefore, is subject to the same guarantees
that result from what is foreseen for any kind of personal data in relation to your
treatment […] Applying these criteria, it turns out that we must conclude that what
recurring trend in relation to the IP addresses of users of P2P networks
clearly enters into the concept of data processing and will therefore force the
application of the criteria and general requirements of the concept of data treatment
cough."

This prescription is also contained in the STJUE of October 19, 2016, in the
Case C-582/14), Patrick Breyer and Bundesrepublik Deutschland, asserting that the
IP is personal data for the service provider: “article 2, law
tra a), of Directive 95/46 must be interpreted in the sense that an IP address
dynamics recorded by an online media service provider on the occasion of
the consultation by a person of an Internet site that that provider makes accessible
to the public constitutes with respect to said provider a personal data, in the sense of the
provision, when he has legal means that allow him to identify
to the person concerned thanks to the additional information available to the supplier
Internet access of said person.

Without forgetting that the Article 29 Group itself means that “The Working Group
treats IP addresses as data about an identifiable person. In that sense-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

164/212

do has stated that “Internet access providers and administrators of
local networks can identify by reasonable means the Internet users to whom they
that have assigned IP addresses, since they systematically record in a file the fe-
cha, the time, the duration and the dynamic IP address assigned to the Internet user. It
The same can be said of Internet service providers who maintain a fi-
log file on the HTTP server. In these cases, there is no doubt that
speak of personal data in the sense of letter a) of article 2 of the Di-
rectiva””, Opinion of the Working Group of article 29, 4/2007 on the concept of
personal information.

We must bring up recital 26 of the RGPD that informs: "The principles of
data protection must apply to all information relating to a natural person
identified or identifiable. Pseudonymized personal data, which could be attributed
buy a natural person through the use of additional information, they should consider
information about an identifiable natural person. To determine if a person
physical person is identifiable, all means must be taken into account, such as the
authorization, which can reasonably be used by the data controller or any other
any other person to directly or indirectly identify the natural person. For
determine whether there is a reasonable probability that means will be used to identify
caring for a natural person, all objective factors must be taken into account, such as
the costs and time required for identification, taking into account both the
technology available at the time of treatment as technological advances.
(…)”

These applications store and process data that, although subjected to procedures
encryption and safeguard measures, remain tied to specific individuals.

In fact, maintaining that users are not identifiable, when the purpose of the transaction
treatment is precisely to identify them, it would be a flagrant contradiction.

So, there was data processing and although the referred data did not allow the
direct identification of the user or their device, they did allow their identification
hint.
A second category of personal data, we identify it with the "Data related to the
health” provided for in article 4.15 of the RGPD. Such is the case of the confirmation code
12-digit one-time use provided by health authorities in case of testing
positive for COVID, or the data through which the user is previously warned of
a risk contact, as well as the day the user developed symptoms compatible with
ble with COVID-19.
In these cases, we are dealing with a special category of personal data
(article 9.1 RGPD) to which the principle of prohibition of treatment is applicable, except
vo that any of the circumstances provided for in section 2 concur. Therefore, in-
embodies an innate danger, and must be subjected to a higher standard of protection.
do.
Recital 51 provides, on the special categories of personal data, that
“Special protection deserves personal data that, by their nature, are private.
cularly sensitive in relation to fundamental rights and freedoms,
that the context of their treatment could entail significant risks to the rights
rights and fundamental freedoms. […] Such personal data must not be processed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

165/212

two, unless their treatment is allowed in specific situations contemplated
in this Regulation, taking into account that Member States may establish
establish specific provisions on data protection in order to adapt the
application of the rules of this Regulation to the fulfillment of an obligation
legal or to fulfill a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
public powers conferred on the data controller. In addition to the requirements
specific to that processing, the general principles and other rules should apply.
more of this Regulation, especially with regard to the conditions of license
treatment city. Exceptions to the prohibition must be explicitly established.
general treatment of these special categories of personal data, among
other things when the interested party gives his explicit consent or when it is necessary
specific conditions, in particular when the treatment is carried out within the framework of
legitimate activities by certain associations or foundations whose objective is
allow the exercise of fundamental freedoms.
Well, as we anticipated in the initial agreement and in the resolution proposal,
tion there were personal data involved in the analyzed treatment.
Thus, in the test practice, SEDIA determined what it called "potential-
personal mind that the application deals with”,

“Generation of codes for the communication of positives in the application
COVIDRadar.

o Positive confirmation code. These 12-digit codes are
generated by the Radar COVID server using pseudo-automated algorithms.
random, and made available to the health authorities of the
autonomous communities, for distribution among confirmed cases
of COVID-19 in its territory. This number is still the "confirmation"
tion" that the user has indeed tested positive, and it is not about
a malicious user who wants to trigger false alerts. It is-
These codes are valid for a maximum of one month, after which they are
removed from the server and cannot be used for confirmation
of positives. Likewise, if a user enters a confirmation code
valid tion, once validated on the server, is also deleted.

Reception of the information sent by users when they communicate a
positive. Daily exposure keys up to a maximum of 14 days. The number-
exact number of communicated codes will depend on the date of onset of symptoms
or date of diagnosis that is reported in the application.

o IP address of the user. To the extent that Radar applications
COVID establish contact with the server, both for downloading dia-
series of keys for temporary exposure, such as for the communication of
are confirmed, the server is ready to know the address
IP used by the mobile phone to establish said communication.
In any case, this IP address is discarded, not being stored to anyone.
some effect.
o Positive communication. In the case reporting process
confirmed, the user is also asked to indicate the day on which
developed symptoms consistent with COVID-19. This information per-
allows filtering on the COVID Radar server, according to the criteria of the Ministry
rio de Sanidad, the temporary exhibition keys that are added to the
daily list of keys available to the applications. Typically
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

166/212

that of some days immediately prior to development will be added
of symptoms, and until the day the positive is reported. This date is
discarded after being used by the server to determine the
temporary exhibition keys that must be incorporated into the list of
diffusion.
o Temporary exhibition keys. The application generates these keys,
rate of one per day, with which the identifiers of pro-
Rolling Limits (RPI), which are exchanged between mobile phones
using Bluetooth low energy (BLE) signals. These ex-keys
temporary position are stored for a maximum of 14 days, being
removed below.
In the event that the user confirms a positive case for COVID-19
from its application, the temporary exposure keys will be communicated
to the Radar COVID server for its composition within a list
diary that can be downloaded by the set of phones with the
Radar COVID app active.
o Rolling proximity identifiers. From the exhibition keys
temporary situation, the mobile phone generates approximately every 10 minutes
mind a rolling proximity tag, which is exchanged with
other mobile phones via BLE signals. These identifiers are stored
they dine on the receiving phones, and do not communicate to any server
in any moment. They will serve to identify close contacts. I know
eliminated after 14 days.

· Composition of an updated list of temporary exhibition keys that
are made available for download by Radar applications.
give COVID.

o List of temporary exhibition keys. Once a day, the server
Radar COVID composes a list of temporary exposure keys,
composed of all the keys that have been communicated from the
Radar COVID applications whose users have reported a confirmed case
signed from COVID-19. This list is available to applications
Radar COVID, which connect daily to the server to dis-
upload that list. With the exposure keys downloaded, and cross-
ing them with the rolling proximity identifiers stored
in the mobile phone, it can be deduced according to the DP3-T protocol if
the user of this phone has been less than two meters, during
more than 15 minutes, in the last 14 days, with a person who has
A confirmed case of COVID-19 has been reported. If this is the case, the application
Radar COVID tion will warn the user of this risk situation, invi-
prompting you to self-isolate and contact the authorities
sanitary. The server maintains daily listings of exposure keys
temporary for a maximum of 14 days. The oldest listings
are removed from the system.

After that, SEDIA asserted that: "As has been stated, the data collected and
generated by the application do not allow, by default, the direct identification of the user.
rio or from your device. However, and adhering to Considering 30 of the Regulation-
European Data Protection Document, users could become identifiable
by association with some online identifier provided by the device or other
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

167/212

type of tools or protocols”.

Likewise, SEDIA openly admits it in the EIPD of August 2020, including
between the personal data processed, among others, such as proximity data, the di-
IP address: “The IP address that the device uses to connect to the Internet. In
In this sense, it is worth mentioning the Judgment of the Supreme Court of October 3
of 2014, in which Legal Basis number four establishes that "there is no
doubt that, from the IP address can be identified directly or indirectly the
identity of the interested party, since internet access providers have constant
ence of the names, telephone and other identifying data of the users to whom they have
assigned the particular IP addresses. The Judgment confirms that the addresses
IP is personal data since it contains information concerning identifiable persons.
identified or identifiable.”

The EIPD of September 2020 contains the same forecast as stated in the report
of previous actions.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the EIPD of September 2020 states that: "The application
does not request any personal data, nor does it require creating a user (without login or da-
personal cough). The application uses anonymous keys and exchanges identifiers
Random, constantly changing. The personnel involved in the application
knows the typology of the information and, most importantly, the Security Policy”.

This affirmation does not contradict what can be deduced from the proven facts, since the
that the application did not request personal data that had to be provided
by users, nor were they asked for their name, phone number or email
to be able to create a record, does not mean that there was no treatment of other data
personal.

That pseudonymized personal data were processed, as they also state, implies
ca that there is treatment of personal data.

Likewise, the fact that the pilot project worked with simulated data from
health (false positives) as asserted by SEDIA in the allegations to the proposal
of resolution, does not prevent the processing of other data
previously referenced personal data, especially when the volunteers discarded
They downloaded the application on their own mobile devices and from them they reported
positive ones.

In addition, there has been processing of personal data. In addition to personal data
previously referred to and dealt with in the pilot project, the same EIPD of August 2020 con-
creta by examining “the entire lifecycle and flow of personal data through the
treatment and all the actors and elements that intervene during the activities of
treatment from its beginning to its end” with respect to the phase of the life cycle of the
moments in which the capture of the same occurs with the "Access to in-
training stored on the mobile device at the time of installation of the
App”, by users of the mobile device.

This means that with the installation of the application a treatment of
personal information.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

168/212

It should be noted, at this time, that the pilot project was not closed only to
volunteers in it, but open to anyone who wanted to download the application.
tion.

SEDIA itself affirms in the evidence process that the following treatments take place-
ments, specifically and as stated in the application's privacy policy,

“The General Secretariat of Digital Administration, as the owner of the application
cation and based on the order of the treatment entrusted by the Ministry of
Health, will carry out the following treatment operations:
· Generation of codes for the communication of positives in the Ra-
give COVID.
Reception of the information sent by users when they communicate a
positive. Daily exposure keys up to a maximum of 14 days. The number-
exact number of communicated codes will depend on the date of onset of symptoms
or date of diagnosis that is reported in the application.
· Composition of an updated list of temporary exhibition keys that
are made available for download by Radar applications.
give COVID.”

Determined, therefore, the existence of data processing is a priority
determine the role played by SEDIA with respect to the Radar CO-
VID, especially during the pilot project, which has involved the treatment of damage
personal cough. To do this, we will examine the concepts of responsible and responsible
treatment, for the purpose of elucidating whether SEDIA adapted its action to the pos-
tion that according to the RGPD corresponded to it.


SAW

The RGPD explicitly introduces the principle of responsibility (article 5.2 RGPD),
that is, the data controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
set out in section 1 of article 5 and must be able to prove it “responsibility
proactive dad”.

In this sense, article 5 of the RGPD under the heading “Principles related to the treatment
lie" provides:

"1. The personal data will be:
a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party
("legality, loyalty and transparency");
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to the ar-
Article 89, paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for purposes
archive in the public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or
statistics shall not be considered incompatible with the initial purposes ("limitation
of the purpose»);
c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes
for which they are processed ("data minimization");

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

169/212

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable for the personal data to be erased or rectified without delay
that are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed ("exactly
your D");
e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; Personal data may be kept for longer periods
long as long as they are treated exclusively for archival purposes in the interest
public, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, in accordance
accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of the measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this Regulation
in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the term
of conservation”);
f) treated in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the damages
personal cough,
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
appropriate unique or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").
2. The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
listed in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”
Likewise, article 24 of the RGPD under the heading “Responsibility of the person in charge
of the treatment” provides:

"1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment
as well as the risks of varying probability and severity for the rights
rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller applied
Appropriate technical and organizational measures will be taken in order to guarantee and be able to
show that the processing is in accordance with this Regulation. sayings
measures will be reviewed and updated as necessary.
2. When they are provided in relation to treatment activities,
the measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall include the application, for
part of the data controller, of the appropriate protection policies
of data. (…)”

For its part, article 25 of the RGPD under the heading “Data protection from the di-
password and by default” provides:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of the application and the nature
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as the risks of di-
versa probability and seriousness that the treatment entails for the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, the data controller will apply, both
at the time of determining the means of treatment as at the time
of the treatment itself, appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as
pseudonymization, designed to effectively apply the principles of
data protection, such as data minimization, and integrate guarantees
necessary in the treatment, in order to meet the requirements of this Regulation-
mento and protect the rights of the interested parties.

2. The data controller will apply the technical and organizational measures
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

170/212

with a view to ensuring that, by default, they are only processed
I keep the personal data that is necessary for each of the purposes
treatment specifics. This obligation will apply to the amount of data
data collected, to the extent of its treatment, to its term of conservation
vation and its accessibility. Such measures shall in particular ensure that, for
default, the personal data are not accessible, without the intervention of the per-
sona, to an indeterminate number of natural persons. (…)”

Likewise, the LOPDGDD in article 28.1 states that:

“Those responsible and in charge, taking into account the elements enumerated
two in articles 24 and 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, will determine the
appropriate technical and organizational measures that must be applied in order to guarantee
certify and certify that the treatment is in accordance with the aforementioned regulation, with the
present organic law, its implementing regulations and the sectoral legislation applied
cable."

Consequently, the responsibility of the person responsible for the traffic must be established.
treatment for any treatment of personal data carried out by himself or by
your account. In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply opportune measures
and effective and must be able to demonstrate compliance of the trafficking activities
compliance with the GDPR, including the effectiveness of the measures (RGPD recital 74).

In short, this principle requires a conscious, diligent, committed and proactive attitude.
active by the person in charge against all personal data processing
to carry out.

7th

Let us continue the legal foundation by determining and differentiating the concepts
responsible and in charge of the treatment.

Regarding the concept of "Responsible for the treatment", it is provided for in the
article 4.7 of the RGPD:

7) “responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person,
public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines
undermine the purposes and means of the treatment; if the Law of the Union or of the States
Member States determines the purposes and means of processing, the controller
treatment or the specific criteria for their appointment may establish
the law of the Union or of the Member States."

The concept of “Data Processor” is defined in section 7 of the
quoted article:

8) “in charge of the treatment” or “in charge”: the natural or legal person, autho-
public authority, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf
of the data controller;

Report 0064/2020 of the Legal Office of the AEPD has emphatically expressed
that: “The RGPD has meant a paradigm shift when dealing with the regulation of de-
right to the protection of personal data, which is based on the principle
of «accountability» or «proactive responsibility» as has been pointed out repeatedly
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

171/212

mind the AEPD (Report 17/2019, among many others) and is collected in the Exhibition
of reasons of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of Personal Data Protection
personal data and guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD)”.

The aforementioned report goes on to say that: “…the criteria on how to attribute the different
roles remain the same (paragraph 11), reiterates that these are func-
national, which are intended to assign responsibilities according to the roles
of the parties (section 12), which implies that in most cases
The circumstances of the specific case must be taken into account (case by case), taking into account
their actual activities rather than the formal designation of an actor as "responsible
ble" or "in charge" (for example, in a contract), as well as autonomous concepts,
whose interpretation must be carried out under the European regulations on protection
personal data (paragraph 13), and taking into account (paragraph 24) that the need
The necessity of a factual assessment also means that the role of a responsible
of the treatment does not derive from the nature of an entity that is processing data.
cough but of their concrete activities in a specific context…”.

The concepts of responsible and in charge of treatment are not formal, but func-
tional and must attend to the specific case.

Therefore, we must focus on the sphere of direction, control or management that the res-
responsible can exercise on the processing of personal data that
act in its power by virtue of that cause and that it would be entirely prohibited to the
charged with the treatment, as expressed in Report 287/2006 of the Cabinet
Legal of the AEPD, of June 20, 2006.

The person in charge of the treatment is from the moment he decides the purposes and the means.
god of the treatment, not losing such condition the fact of leaving a certain margin of action
tuation to the person in charge of the treatment.

This is unquestionably expressed in Guidelines 07/2020: “The person responsible for the traffic-
treatment determines the purposes and means of the treatment; that is, the why and the how of
treatment. You must decide on both the ends and the means. Nevertheless,
some more practical aspects of the treatment itself (the "non-essential means")
they can be left in the hands of the person in charge of the treatment. To be considered res-
responsible for the treatment, it is not necessary to have real access to the data that
are being treated."

Determining who decides the means and purposes of data processing is crucial to
establish who is responsible for compliance with data protection regulations
personal data, and in particular who should provide information to people who
download the application about the processing of their personal data, which ones are going to
be your rights, who will be responsible in case of breach of the security of
personal data, etc

Well then, fixed the concepts of responsible and in charge of the treatment, as well
as the obligations of the former derived from proactive responsibility, we have
to signify the peculiar situation of the Public Administrations, where the responsible
responsible for the treatment is that administrative body that has attributed powers
by a legal norm, for whose exercise it is necessary to carry out data processing
of a personal nature. If there is no competence to carry out a certain
activity, nor does it have to carry out the treatments that are derived from it.
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

172/212

they would rival The jurisdiction will determine, therefore, the legitimacy to carry out the treatment.
I lie. And all this, starting from the premise that, faced with what happens in the
private sector, in which you can do everything that is not prohibited, the Administrations
Public authorities can only undertake what the legal system allows them, with
full submission to the Law and the Right (articles 9.1 and 103.1 of the Constitution)
handkerchief).

This is stated in article 8 of the LRJSP, when it is stated that "competence is
inalienable and will be exercised by the administrative bodies that have it attributed
as its own, except in cases of delegation or avocation, when they are made in the
terms provided in this or other laws.
The second section of article 8.1 of the LRJSP adds that “The delegation of com-
competitions, management assignments, delegation of signature and substitution do not
alteration of the ownership of the competition, although they do of the determined elements
before its exercise that are foreseen in each case”, in such a way that they establish
mechanisms to assign, where appropriate, the exercise of powers to other bodies.
administrative us.
Specifically, and with respect to the delegation of powers regulated in article 9 of the
LRJSP must be published in the official bulletins or newspapers, ensuring the security
that must be guaranteed to citizens, who must know, at all times,
moment, who is the administrative body responsible for a competition and who is
exercising on behalf of the delegating body.
Within the framework of a delegation of powers, the administrative body in which
residence the ownership of this does not lose its status as data controller
for delegating its exercise to another administrative body. And not only because the resolutions
Administrative regulations adopted by delegation will expressly indicate this circumstance.
circumstance and will be considered issued by the delegating body, but because it maintains
control over data processing, since you can revoke the delegation at any time.
any time or raise a matter when there are circumstances that make it con-
coming.
The competent body, which holds ownership, decides that another exercise the competence.
(including in such an exercise a certain margin of maneuver for the delegated body in the
data processing) without losing control. The delegating body, which is responsible
of treatment, when it provides for another body to exercise the powers, it is re-
deciding on the purposes and means of the treatment.
Similarly, if a management entrustment occurs under the terms of article
11 of the LRJSP does not imply transfer of the ownership of the competition nor of the
substantive elements of your exercise.
Holding the competence of an administrative body is a capital issue,
because its absence can be determinant of nullity of full right or annulment.
That said, according to the allegations made by SEDIA throughout the
sanctioning procedure, and for the best clarification of what happened, we can
divide the treatment related to the establishment, development and implementation of the application
Radar COVID cation in two time periods.
The first occurs from the moment in which the possibility of using
an application in order to determine the traceability of contacts, which includes
and the Radar COVID pilot project, until the “Agreement for the use of the application” is signed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

173/212

“Radar COVID” cation, in testing phase, by the Autonomous Communities
and Autonomous Cities” of August 19, 2020 of the Interterritorial Council of the System
Ma National Health. The second period begins with the validity of the Agreement of 19
August 2020. According to clause 6:

6. This Agreement will remain in force only during the testing phase
of the use of the “RADAR COVID” application and, in any case, until the signature
of the bilateral agreements of definitive adhesion for the use of the applica-
tion.

Well, there is a difference between the two periods because, as we will explain below,
tion, in the first SEDIA holds the status of data controller and in
the second SEDIA is formally designated as in charge of the treatment, all
this in relation to the Radar COVID application.
Thus, and regarding this second period, we will indicate that the performance of SEDIA
as responsible for the treatment does not dilate in time, but rather operates a change
in your condition. Specifically, based on the “Agreement for the use of the application “Radar CO-
VID”, in the testing phase, by the Autonomous Communities and Autonomous Cities
nomas” of August 19, 2020 the Interterritorial Council of the National System of
Health, as stated in the twenty-eighth proven fact, where it is indicated
that: The person in charge of the treatment will be, in both cases, the Secretary of State of
Digitization and Artificial Intelligence

Also subsequently, the Resolution of October 13, 2020, in the Clause
Third, section 2 and 3, the SGAD is recognized as in charge of the treatment, res-
aspect of the "Obligations of the parties in relation to the delegation of powers
provided for in letter b) of the first clause” in accordance with the thirtieth proven fact
I come And to the General Secretariat of Digital Health, and Innovation of the National System
of Health, in its capacity as Responsible for the treatment, give the necessary indications
sarias to the SGAD in its capacity as data processor.

Let us remember that article 9.1 of the LRJSP provides for the delegation of the exercise of
competences, a matter different from what it implies to hold the ownership of the competence.
Inc.

Likewise, in the Privacy Policy there are modifications with respect to the ver-
initial session.

The final version introduces a “Point 3” that answers the question: Who are the
responsible for the treatment of your data as a user of "Radar COVID"?, and informs
the next:

“At the national level, the person responsible for processing your data as a user of
"COVID Radar" is: (...)

Name: Ministry of Health.

Address: Paseo del Prado 18-20, 28014 Madrid

The General Secretariat of Digital Administration, as the owner of the application

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

174/212

tion and based on the order of the treatment entrusted by the Ministry of Sanita-
ity, will carry out the following treatment operations:

 Generation of codes for the communication of positives in the application

COVIDRadar.

 Reception of the information sent by users when they communicate

a positive. This information includes:
Daily exposure keys up to a maximum of 14 days. The number
The exact number of keys communicated will depend on the date of onset of symptoms.
more or date of diagnosis that is reported in the application.
The preference or not to communicate these keys of daily exposure to the
European node for interoperability between contact tracing applications
cough.





 Composition of an updated list of temporary exhibition keys
that are made available for download by the applications
nes Radar COVID.

 In relation to the European contact interoperability node (EFGS)
 Daily reception of the lists of temporary exhibition codes generated
two by the national servers of the Member States adhering to
your case to the project.

 Daily submission to the EFGS node of a list of temporary exposure keys
poral sent by users of Radar COVID who have consented ex-
explicitly share this information with the rest of the Member States
attached to the project. (…)”

Leaving behind this second period, we will now focus on the first to determine
determine who was the data controller with respect to the processing of personal data.
in relation to the realization of the Radar COVID pilot project.
Let us now look at the scope of competence in relation to the treatment carried out
to determine who is responsible for the treatment. At first, it seems that they are the
national health authorities.

Taking into account the sensitivity of the personal data and the purpose of the treatment
of the data, the Commission considers that the applications should be designed in
in such a way that the national health authorities (or the entities that carry out a
mission carried out in favor of the public interest in the field of health) are
data controllers (Section 3.1 of the Communication from the European Commission
ropea 2020/C 124 I/01).

This will also contribute to strengthening the trust of citizens and, therefore, the
acceptance of the applications (and of the underlying information systems on
chains of transmission of infections), in addition to guaranteeing that they comply with the
intended purpose of protecting public health.

Thus, the Spanish legislator has provided itself with the necessary and timely legal measures
to deal with situations of health risk, such as Organic Law 3/1986, of 14
of April, of Special Measures in the Matter of Public Health (modified by
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

175/212

Royal Decree-Law 6/2020, of March 10, adopting certain measures
urgent calls in the economic sphere and for the protection of public health, published
in the Official State Gazette of March 11, 2020) or Law 33/2011, of March 4,
October, General Public Health.

Article 3 of Organic Law 3/1986 states that:

“In order to control communicable diseases, the health authority,
In addition to carrying out general preventive actions, it may adopt the measures
appropriate measures for the control of the sick, of the people who are or
have been in contact with them and the immediate environment, as well
such as those considered necessary in case of risk of a transmitted nature.
sible.”

In the same way, articles 5 and 84 of Law 33/2011, of October 4, General of
Public Health refer to the previous Organic Law 3/1986, and to the possibility of adopting
Take additional measures in case of risk of disease transmission. For the
Therefore, in terms of risk of disease transmission, epidemic, health crisis,
etc., the applicable regulations have granted “the health authorities of the different
tas Public Administrations” (article 1 Organic Law 3/1986, of April 14) the
powers to adopt the necessary measures provided for in said laws when
so required by health reasons of urgency or necessity. Consequently, from a
point of view of processing personal data, the safeguarding of essential interests
in the field of public health corresponds to the different health authorities
authorities of the different public administrations, who may adopt the measures
necessary to safeguard such essential public interests in situations of
public health health emergency (Report of the AEPD Legal Office N/REF:
0017/2020).
Even though there is some doubt regarding the competences attributed to the MSND, through
Royal Decree 463/2020, of March 14, declaring the state of alarm
for the management of the health crisis situation caused by COVID-19, in the
Article 4.2.d) the Minister of Health is designated as the delegated competent authority
in your area of responsibility.
At the same time, as established in article 17.1 of Royal Decree 2/2020, of 12
of January, by which the ministerial departments are restructured, corresponds to the
Ministry of Health "the proposal and execution of the Government's policy on
health, planning and health care, as well as the exercise of the powers
ences of the General Administration of the State to ensure citizens the right
cho to health protection.”

To the above, we must add the provisions of Royal Decree 454/2020, of March 10,
zo, which develops the basic organic structure of the Ministry of Health, and
Modifies Royal Decree 139/2020, of January 28, which establishes the
basic organic structure of the ministerial departments, in force since 12
March 2020 until August 6, 2020. Therefore, it was the current rule
at the time the treatment began.

Article 1 provides that “1. It corresponds to the Ministry of Health, the proposal
and implementation of the Government's policy on health, planning and care.
health care, as well as the exercise of the powers of the General Administration
of the State to ensure citizens the right to health protection”, indicates
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

176/212

falling below that “2. The powers attributed in this royal decree are
understood in coordination and without prejudice to those that correspond to other rights
ministerial departments.

Putting things this way, the MSND carries out its functions through various bodies.
managers, among whom was the General Directorate of Public Health, Ca-
ity and Innovation (at the time in which the actions of the
treatment). Article 3 of the aforementioned Royal Decree contains its functions, including
leaving those related to public health surveillance or the actions contemplated in
Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health, are the responsibility of the
state health administration, among others.

On the other hand, Royal Decree 403/2020, of February 25, which develops the
basic organizational structure of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation
gital, provides in its article 1 that the METD is in charge of "the policy of telecommunications
tions and for digital transformation, in particular promoting the digitization of
Public administrations".

Within this framework, SEDIA has, in accordance with article 8, attributed the functions
of "the promotion of the digitalization of the public sector and the coordination and cooperation
terministerial and with other Public Administrations regarding said matters, without
detriment of the competences attributed to other ministerial departments”.
Applying the foregoing to the case at hand and as a result of the actions carried out
developed by the METD through SEDIA and SGAD, the role that corresponded to
SEDIA according to the RGPD was the one in charge of the treatment, since the competence
ence for the treatment of personal data object of the application developed the te-
responsibility attributed to the current General Directorate of Public Health (Royal Decree 735/2020, of
August 4), before, General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation.

However, from the proven facts, it is concluded that SEDIA held the condition
of data controller since the project began in May
2020, until the Agreement for the use of the “Radar COVID” application, in the testing phase,
by the Autonomous Communities and Autonomous Cities” of August 19,
2020 the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, mentioned above, where
SEDIA is recognized as being in charge of the treatment.

That said, and based on the fact that during the pilot project the person in charge
responsible for the treatment for being the holder of the competence was the General Directorate of Health
Public, Quality and Innovation of the Ministry of Health - admitted by SEDIA in the
allegations adduced in the course of the procedure, even indicating that he was entrusted
treatment- the truth is that, considering all the factual circumstances
relevant and that have been proven, SEDIA held the status of responsible
of the treatment. This circumstance has been proven and derives from the documentation
contained in the administrative file and the allegations made during the
penalty procedure.

Thus, the role of data controller held by SEDIA is revealed
through their own actions, both ad intra and ad extra.

Ad intra, with respect to the rest of the actors involved in the pilot project belonging to
to the Public Administration. SEDIA determined a large part of the purposes of the treatment
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

177/212

and decided on the essential means to carry it out.

We must start from the letter of June 9, 2020 from the General Directorate of Health
Public, Quality and Innovation. In said letter, the data controller gives the approval
good for the development of the Radar COVID pilot project through a mobile application and
also generically determines the purpose of the processing of personal data in
the aforementioned pilot project, that is, the traceability of contacts of COVID-19.

Let us clarify with respect to the allegation made by SEDIA that it remains as entrusted
from the treatment of the data and results, that the letter in relation to the roles is
limited to the following tenor: “In its authorization, the DGSP establishes June 9, 2020
that: the person responsible for processing the data of this pilot will be the health authority
ria of the Community in which it is going to be carried out”.

This is a conclusion that SEDIA seems to reach, in view of the investigation and
subsequent opening of the sanctioning procedure: first, because the reference letter-
does not mention the role that SEDIA must play, but merely gives the approval
good regarding the development of the pilot project; second, because, if as then
understood the General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation, the person in charge
of the treatment was the health authority of the Autonomous Community in which the
to carry out the treatment, it would have been up to her to designate the person in charge
of the treatment through the legally established instruments and not to the Directorate
General Education of Public Health, Quality and Innovation.

Notwithstanding that the General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation, gave
the approval of the Radar COVID pilot project through the letter of June 9, 2020,
the truth is that SEDIA was not formally determined to be in charge of the
ment during the pilot project.

Nor does the mention contained regarding the "role" of SEDIA in the
“Condition specifications for the design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system
that allows contact tracing in relation to the pandemic caused by the
COVID-19” dated June 10 and 12, 2020, in which they merely point out that:

“Order SND/297/2020, of March 27, of the Minister of Health commissioned
the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence (SEDIA), of the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development of di-
various actions for the management of the health crisis caused by CO-
VID-19.

In particular, said Order establishes in its first resolution, the Development of
technological solutions and mobile applications for data collection
in order to improve the operational efficiency of health services, as well as
the best care and accessibility by citizens.

Additionally, the General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation,
of the General Secretariat of Health (Ministry of Health) has given the Approval
OK to a pilot test of contact tracing in relation to COVID-19,
commissioning SEDIA to develop a mobile application for this purpose.”

It is interesting to make a couple of points regarding the Ministerial Order SND/
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

178/212

297/2020 of March 27, which entrusts the Secretary of State for Di-
digitization and Artificial Intelligence, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transformation.
Digital information, the development of new actions for the management of the health crisis
ria caused by COVID-19 (hereinafter OM).

Specifically, the First section provides:

"First. Development of technological solutions and mobile applications for
collection of data in order to improve the operational efficiency of services
health services, as well as the best care and accessibility by citizens.
give us

1. Entrust the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence
of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development
urgent development and operation of a computer application to support the
management of the health crisis caused by COVID-19. This application
will at least allow the user to carry out a self-assessment based on the symptoms
doctors you communicate, about the probability that you are infected by the
COVID-19, offer information to the user about COVID-19 and provide the
user practical advice and recommendations of actions to follow according to the
evaluation.

The application will allow the geolocation of the user for the sole purpose of ve-
Verify that you are in the autonomous community in which you declare to be. The
application can include within its content links to portals managed
ned by third parties in order to facilitate access to information and services
available through the Internet.

The application will not constitute, in any case, a medical diagnosis service,
emergency care or prescription of pharmacological treatments. The
The use of the application will not replace in any case the consultation with a pro-
suitably qualified medical professional.

The person responsible for the treatment will be the Ministry of Health and the person in charge of
treatment and owner of the application will be the General Secretariat of Administration
Digital tion. The Ministry of Health, as the controller, authorizes
encourages the General Secretariat of Digital Administration to resort to other
two in the execution of the provisions of this section.

2. Entrust the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence
of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development
development of a conversational assistant/chatbot to be used via whatsapp and
other instant messaging applications. Will provide official information
to questions from citizens. The design will be based on information
official from the Ministry of Health.

The person responsible for the treatment will be the Ministry of Health and the person in charge of
treatment and owner of the chatbot will be the Secretary of State for Digitization and
Artificial Intelligence through the General Subdirectorate of Artificial Intelligence
Social and Digital Enabling Technologies.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

179/212

3. Entrust the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence
of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the development
development of an informative website with the technological resources available.”

On the one hand, the purpose of the order is not to provide any legal basis for the treatment.
processing of the data, an issue that refers to the provisions of the RGPD.

On the other hand, this rule is cited as applicable legislation in the Privacy Policy of
clearly and in a more circumvented way in the Specifications, by the
SEDIA, as an enabling title for the development of the Radar COVID application. Nope
However, the OM did not cover this application, but only mobility studies.
performed during the state of alarm, as well as other self-diagnosis that
the Government and some autonomous communities put into operation at the beginning
of the pandemic (see the Agreement between SEDIA and Telefónica Digital España, SLU,
for the operation of the ASISTENCIACOVID19 Application in the context of the situation
tion of health crisis caused by COVID-19, published by Resolution of 30
April 2020). This type of applications tried to generalize the geolocation
tion of users, so they are a poor fit with contact tracing. Let's remember that
the Communication of the European Commission 2020/C 124 I/01, discards the need to
geolocation for the purposes of measuring proximity and close contacts (the community
cation between devices over Bluetooth low energy appears to be more accurate and, therefore,
therefore, more appropriate than the use of geolocation data (GNSS/GPS or
mobile device location data)).

The development of the pilot project and its implementation was not even included in
Order SND/297/2020, of March 27, entrusting the Secretariat of
State of Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Digital Transformation, the development of various actions for the management of the
health crisis caused by COVID-19. The Radar COVID App, and therefore its pro-
pilot project, was not included within the technological solutions and applications
mobile phones for data collection in order to improve the operational efficiency of
health services.

If the MSND had wanted to entrust SEDIA with the development of the Ra-
give COVID, he would have shown his will unequivocally. And I would have done it
the same way as the rest of the parcels. However, the formal commission does not
Occurred.

SEDIA points out in its arguments that page 159 of the proposed resolution
states the following: “The AEPD does not go into neither examining nor qualifying what should be the
legal instrument through which SEDIA is formally entrusted with the assignment
of the treatment referred to the RADAR COVID pilot project. Obviously it exceeds
our competencies. Now, precisely, we highlight the delegation of com-
claims and the management entrustment among the instruments provided for in article
8.1 of the LRJSP for being the ideal ones to carry out a treatment order between
administrative gains.”

And he alludes to the fact that the instrument used, different from the encomienda, was the enabling letter.
health tea.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

180/212

In this regard, it should be noted that the will of the competent administrative body is
manifested through administrative or regulatory acts, in such a way that these are re-
loved ones to formalize the task of being in charge of the treatment; which I know
complements the obligation prescribed in article 28.3 of the RGPD that specifies that
“The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act with lease.
under the Law of the Union or of the Member States, which binds the person in charge
responsible party and establish the object, duration, nature and purpose
of the treatment, the type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the obligations
tions and rights of the person in charge”.

Thus, for example, it has been made clear both in the Ministerial Order SND/
297/2020 of March 27, as in the Agreement of October 13, 2020.

With regard to who has determined in practice the purposes and means of processing,
we must mean that it has been proven that SEDIA was appointed in charge of the
Presentation at the meeting of the interterritorial working group on June 17, 2020
which was attended by representatives of various Autonomous Communities, as well as
members of SEDIA, without any presence of members of the MSND, where it was exposed
so that:

“…three main objectives of the application: preserve public health, go a
stay ahead of COVID-19 and minimize its economic impact by facilitating
the movement of people. To do this, there are three key moments to keep in mind:
account: the activation of Bluetooth (which allows to preserve the anonymity of the
users), the report of positive diagnoses and the notification to users in
risk of infection”.

In addition, the application would serve the purpose of conducting online surveys "to obtain
critical mass”.

To the above we must add the document called “COVID Radar. Secretary
General of Digital Administration. General operation. Madrid, June 2020” where
SEDIA reported on the objectives of the app:

“• Preserve public health without giving up the privacy of citizens

• Be one step ahead of Covid-19: alerting people at risk is containing
the virus proactively

• Minimize the economic impact of Covid-19, by controlling the pandemic without
drastic measures and facilitating the movement of people.”

Thus, when SEDIA explained the objectives of the application, it was merely delimiting the
purposes of treatment, amplifying that set by the General Directorate of Public Health,
Quality and Innovation (
 ; this participation in the determines
 traceability of contacts)
 
 
 -
 
The definition of the purposes implies the condition of data controller.

But it is that, in addition, it determined part of the essential means of treatment, decided
addressing issues such as, with respect to cross-border interoperability,
opt for the decentralized DP3T Protocol, which incorporates the API of Apple and Google
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

181/212

regional health services.

o The proposal of five models for the integration of the subsequent application in the

Likewise, through the "Condition specifications for the design, development, pilot and evaluation
Implementation of a system that allows contact tracing in relation to the pandemic
caused by covid-19”, accepted by INDRA, the means of tra-
previously fixed treatment. The "celebration" of the emergency contract with INDRA,
as the person in charge of treatment, without the subsequent authorization of the real person in charge
of the treatment required by article 28.2 of the RGPD, shows that the SE-
DIA acted as data controller, deciding on the means of processing.
I lie.

We must also cite the document called "Covid-19 App Pilot Design. Pre-
CCAA statement June 17, 2020, prepared by SEDIA in which the para-
Key meters of the Pilot and the access channels by the participants.

It should be added that, of all the documentation in the administrative file
there are no documented instructions from the real data controller that justifies
verify this “excessive” action by SEDIA with respect to its role as traffic manager.
treatment.

Continuing with our argument, the initial version of the
“Radar COVID Application Privacy Policy” published on August 7,
2020 together with version 1.0 of the Radar COVID app (pilot version), where the
Next information:

“For this purpose, we use your data to provide you with the “Radar COVID” service and
so that you can make use of its functionalities in accordance with its conditions.
tions of use. In accordance with the General Regulation for the Protection of
Data (RGPD) as well as any applicable national legislation, the
General Secretariat of Digital Administration will treat all the data generated
used during the use of the App for the following purposes:

Offer you information on contacts considered to be at risk of exposure to
the COVID-19.

Provide you with practical advice and recommendations for actions to follow
According to situations of risk in the face of quarantine or self-quarantine,
I had

This treatment will be carried out through the con- trol alert functionality.
tagos that allows to identify situations of risk for having been in contact
close relationship with users of the application who are infected
given by COVID-19. In this way you will be informed of the measures that
comes to adopt later”.

In this information, the role of data controller is clearly assumed by the
SGAD.

Likewise, ad extra, through the press releases published by the METD, it is
revealed that SEDIA, from the beginning, acted as controller of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

182/212

I lie.

The first press release is published on May 6, 2020 (proven fact
sixth) where it is reported that “Spain works at a national and European level for the integration
perability of contagion prevention applications against COVID-19”, highlights
playing the role of the METD together with the secretaries of state (SEDIA, included).

It is significant that this press release, dated May 6, 2020, predates the letter
of the General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation of June 9, 2020.

Likewise, on June 23, 2020, in the Reference of the Council of Ministers,
the Agreement adopted regarding the declaration of emergency for the
contracting of the services of design, development, pilot and evaluation of a system
that allows contact tracing, as stated in the tenth proven fact
fourth.

That same day, the METD publishes a press release reporting the approval by
part of the Government of the development of the pilot for a mobile application of notification of
risk contacts by COVID-19, as stated in the tenth proven fact
third.

Subsequently, on August 3, 2020, the METD publishes another press release
informing about the passing of the testing phase fulfilling all the objectives
marked. (...) This is what the Secretary of State for Digitization and Intelligence has explained.
Artificial Agency, Carmen Artigas, (...), according to the twenty-second proven fact
second.

Also, on September 9, 2020, the METD publishes another press release
where it reports that implementation is complete in thirteen autonomous communities, which
cover 70% of the population, and releases its code, according to the proven fact
thirty fourth.

Finally, on October 22, 2020, the METD publishes a press release informing
command over the commitment of the main telephone operators to not affect
reduce the data consumption of the Radar COVID app to its users. (...) And it refers to the ti-
head of SEDIA, who is the one who holds a meeting with representatives of the main
major telephone operators with the aim of establishing ways of collaboration to
the dissemination of the Radar COVID contact tracing mobile application (a proven fact
fortieth).

And although SEDIA disagrees with the value of the proposed resolution in its arguments
evidence attributed to them by the AEPD, an issue already analyzed in the FD IV, the truth is
which are one more element that has contributed to clarify the role of SEDIA in the development
application roll.

Likewise, SEDIA confirmed to this Agency -in response to the first request-,
that: “(…) it is appropriate to indicate that the app that will allow the tracking and notification of con-
tacts in order to promote the early detection of possible people infected by CO-
VID-19 is still in the design phase. At this time, there are still
many uncertainties and pending decisions, which can be elucidated

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

183/212

As the pilot project announced by the Third Vice President progresses and
will be held in the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, which will be reported
timely to the AEPD.”

We also highlight the document "FAQs RADAR COVID", sent by SEDIA,
on July 21, 2020, which includes in point "A.4" the following question:

Is the Government in charge of managing Radar COVID? Yes. COVID Radar
is the application of the Government of Spain and has been developed by the Secretariat
of State of Digitization and Artificial Intelligence dependent on the Vice-presidency
Third Office of the Government together with the Ministry of Health.

As we pointed out before, it also pronounces regarding the purposes of the App that
are linked to the purposes of the treatment in the following sense:

“The specific purpose of the tracking application is to meet the following objectives:
you:

 Preserve public health without giving up the privacy of citizens.
Stay one step ahead of COVID-19 by proactively alerting people

You are at risk of incubating the virus.

 Minimize the economic impact of COVID-19, by controlling the pandemic

without drastic measures and facilitating the movement of people.”

And there is no doubt, in relation to the determination of the means, that SEDIA is
through the SGAD, which has developed the tracking application. That's how it gets ma-
manifested in the Resolution of October 13, 2020, of the Undersecretariat, which in its
Sixth paragraph says:

“That in application of these principles, since May 2020, the SGAD
has been developing, with the knowledge and agreement of the Ministry of
Health, an application for the traceability of contacts in relation to the pandemic
mine caused by COVID-19 called “Radar COVID.

During the month of July 2020, with the agreement of the General Directorate of
Public Health, Quality and Innovation of the Ministry of Health, the SGAD carried out
successfully carried out the pilot project of the same, whose success guarantees the viability of
the proposed solution for close contact tracing”

Likewise, both in the Privacy Policy -in its initial version-, and in the Conditions
tions of Use -in its initial and final version-, the SGAD, is identified as the owner of the
Radar COVID app respectively.

In other words, there was a real appearance to the public that it was the answer.
responsible for the treatment, despite the fact that SEDIA, in the allegations to the proposal
resolution, insists on denying this appearance, referring to the fact that it was the Government
who promoted the creation of the application and encouraged its use.

Finally, we rule out the co-responsibility of the General Directorate of Public Health.
ca, Quality and Innovation and SEDIA.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

184/212

The RGPD defines in article 26.1 what it understands by "Joint controllers of the treatment-
I lie":

"1. When two or more managers jointly determine the objectives and
treatment means will be considered co-responsible for the treatment. The
co-responsible will determine in a transparent manner and by mutual agreement their responsibilities.
respective responsibilities in the fulfillment of the obligations imposed by
this Regulation, in particular regarding the exercise of the rights of the
interested party and their respective obligations to supply information to which
referred to in articles 13 and 14, except, and to the extent that, their responsibilities
are governed by the law of the Union or of the Member States that are
apply to them. Said agreement may designate a point of contact for
interested. (…)”

In this case, it does not seem that the General Directorate of Public Health, Quality and Innovation
tion and SEDIA, have jointly determined the objectives, the means of treatment,
their respective responsibilities, so the condition would be ruled out.
tion of co-responsible for the treatment.

Recital 79 of the GDPR should be highlighted, which says:

“The protection of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties, as well as the res-
responsibility of those responsible and in charge of the treatment, also in what
regarding the supervision by the control authorities and the measures
adopted by them, require a clear attribution of responsibilities in
under this Regulation, including cases where a controller de-
terminate the purposes and means of processing jointly with other controllers
bles, or in which the treatment is carried out on behalf of a person in charge.”

The "Agreement for the use of the "Radar COVID" application, in the testing phase, by
the Autonomous Communities and Autonomous Cities” of August 19, 2020 on
Interterritorial Council of the National Health System in point 5 says:

"5. In relation to the processing of personal data, and in application of the
regime provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
Article of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to
respect to the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data and for the
that Directive 95/46/CE is repealed, during the term of this Agreement, the
responsible for the treatment will be the Ministry of Health and, in its respective territory, each
one of the autonomous communities and cities that are incorporated during the
testing phase to the use of the application, fully displaying its competences in
health matter. The person in charge of the treatment will be, in both cases, the Secretary of
State of Digitization and Artificial Intelligence”.

It should also be noted that the General Secretariat for Digital Health and System Innovation
National Health, in response to a request dated December 4, 2020,
inform this Agency of the following:

"two. The Ministry of Health exercises the role of data controller through
of the General Secretariat of Digital Health, Innovation and Information of the SNS
(SGSDII), and the General Secretariat of Digital Administration (hereinafter, SGAD),
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

185/212

dependent on the Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence
(hereinafter, SEDIA), of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
gital, performs the role of data processor
 .

 

3. This has been the case since the signing of the Agreement signed between the two ministries between the Mi-
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation and the Ministry of Health
information about the "RADAR COVID" application, published in the BOE of
10/15/2020, (…):

Without going into an analysis of the General Directorate's status as data controller,
Public Health, Quality and Innovation, which is evident, until it occurs
the signing of the Agreement, it has been proven that SEDIA held the condition of res-
responsible for the treatment, without having legal coverage to exercise this condition.
Consequently, it was not the competent body to process personal data.
in relation to the intended purposes, with which the lack of competition has
determined an absence of legitimacy for the processing of personal data
staff. As we stated earlier, the legitimacy to carry out a trade
treatment, in the field of Public Administrations, is inextricably linked to
the competence of the administrative body that holds it, since only the one that is the
competent authority can decide on the means and purposes of the treatment.

Furthermore, neither did it occur prior to the Resolution of 13
October 2020, delegation of any competence or management assignment that
allow the exercise of jurisdiction.

In short, as a conclusion from the foregoing, it can be stated that the SEDIA attached to the
METD, to which the SGAD depends, with the rank of Undersecretary, has served as
responsible for the data processing referred to in the factual background, all
Once in accordance with the definition of article 4.7 of the RGPD, it has determined the purposes and
means of the treatments carried out (in addition to the appearance before the citizens
as data controller).
The legal system has provided for the contingency that whoever is in charge of the
treatment behaves as responsible for the treatment. Article 28.10 of the
RGPD provides that "Without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84, if an en-
charged with the treatment infringes this Regulation when determining the purposes and me-
god of the treatment, will be considered responsible for the treatment with respect to
no treatment”. The consequence is also determined in article 33.2 of the
LOPDGDD when it is indicated that those who
“in their own name and without proof that they act on behalf of another, establish relations
tions with those affected”.
The facts described are constitutive of the infraction foreseen in article 83.4.a) and
83.5.a) of the GDPR.

viii

It is opportune -at this moment- to bring up the legal regime related to the
loaded with treatment:
First of all, we refer to article 4.8 of the RGPD already indicated.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

186/212

Second, recital 81 says:

“To ensure compliance with the provisions of this Regulation
regarding the treatment carried out by the person in charge on behalf of the person in charge.
possible, when entrusting treatment activities to a person in charge, they must resort to
only to processors who offer sufficient guarantees, in particular as regards
in terms of expertise, reliability and resources, for the
application of technical and organizational measures that meet the requirements of the
this Regulation, including the security of the treatment. The adherence of the manager
to an approved code of conduct or approved certification mechanism.
can serve as an element to demonstrate compliance with the obligations
by the person in charge. The treatment by a person in charge must be governed by a
contract or other legal act in accordance with the Law of the Union or of the States
members that links the person in charge with the person in charge, that sets the object and the
treatment, the nature and purposes of the treatment, the type of personal data
stakeholders and categories of stakeholders, taking into account the roles and responsibilities
specific abilities of the person in charge in the context of the treatment that has to be carried out.
carried out and the risk to the rights and freedoms of the interested party. The answer-
saber and keeper may choose to rely on an individual contract or on a
standard contractual clauses to be adopted directly by the Commission or first
adopt a supervisory authority in accordance with the consistency mechanism
and later the Commission. Once the treatment on behalf of the
responsible, the person in charge must, at the choice of the former, return or delete the data.
personal rights, unless the law of the Union or of the Member States applied
cable to the person in charge of the treatment obliges to keep the data.”

Third, article 28 of the RGPD under the heading “Data Processor”
has:

"1. When a treatment is going to be carried out on behalf of a person in charge of the
treatment, this will only choose a person in charge who offers sufficient guarantees
to apply appropriate technical and organizational measures, so that the
treatment is in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation and guarantees
the protection of the rights of the interested party.

2. The person in charge of the treatment will not resort to another person in charge without the authorization
prior written, specific or general, of the person in charge. In the latter case, the
manager will inform the person in charge of any change foreseen in the incorporation
tion or substitution of other managers, thus giving the person in charge the opportunity
to oppose such changes.

3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act
in accordance with the Law of the Union or of the Member States, which binds the
charged with respect to the person in charge and establish the object, duration, nature
nature and purpose of the treatment, the type of personal data and categories of interest
sados, and the obligations and rights of the person in charge. Said contract or legal act
co shall stipulate, in particular, that the processor:

a) will process personal data only following documented instructions
of the person in charge, including with respect to the transfers of personal data to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

187/212

a third country or an international organization, unless required to do so in
under the law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the
loaded; In this case, the person in charge will inform the person in charge of that legal requirement.
prior to treatment, unless such Law prohibits it for important reasons.
tes of public interest;

b) will guarantee that the persons authorized to process personal data have
already committed to respecting confidentiality or are subject to an obligation
confidentiality of a legal nature;

c) take all necessary measures in accordance with article 32;

d) will respect the conditions indicated in sections 2 and 4 to resort to another
treatment manager;

e) will assist the data controller, taking into account the nature of the processing, through
through appropriate technical and organizational measures, whenever possible,
so that it can fulfill its obligation to respond to requests that
have as their object the exercise of the rights of the interested parties established in
chapter III;

f) will help the controller to ensure compliance with the statutory obligations
established in articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the treatment
and the information available to the person in charge;

g) at the choice of the person in charge, will delete or return all personal data
once the provision of treatment services ends, and will delete the co-
existing pias unless the retention of personal data is required
under the law of the Union or of the Member States;

h) will make available to the person in charge all the information necessary to determine
show compliance with the obligations established in this article,
as well as to allow and contribute to the performance of audits, including inspections
tions, by the person in charge or another auditor authorized by said person.
ble.

In relation to the provisions of letter h) of the first paragraph, the manager informs
shall immediately notify the controller if, in his opinion, an instruction violates the
this Regulation or other provisions regarding data protection of
the Union or the Member States.

4. When a person in charge of the treatment resorts to another person in charge to carry out
carry out certain treatment activities on behalf of the person in charge, it is im-
will put this other person in charge, through a contract or other legal act established
under the law of the Union or of the Member States, the same obligations
data protection regulations than those stipulated in the contract or other legal act.
agreement between the person in charge and the person in charge referred to in section 3, in particular
cular the provision of sufficient guarantees for the application of technical and
appropriate organizational arrangements so that the treatment is in accordance with the dis-
positions of this Regulation. If that other person in charge breaches his obligations

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

188/212

data protection regulations, the initial processor will remain fully
responsible to the data controller with regard to compliance
fulfillment of the obligations of the other person in charge.

5. The treatment manager's adherence to a code of conduct approved by
pursuant to article 40 or to a certification mechanism approved pursuant to art.
Article 42 may be used as an element to demonstrate the existence of the ga-
sufficient guarantees referred to in sections 1 and 4 of this article.

6. Without prejudice to the fact that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment celebrate a
individual contract, the contract or other legal act referred to in paragraphs
3 and 4 of this article may be based, totally or partially, on the clauses
standard contracts referred to in sections 7 and 8 of this article, including
even when they form part of a certification granted to the person in charge or
loaded in accordance with articles 42 and 43.

7. The Commission may establish standard contractual clauses for the matters to which it is
referred to in sections 3 and 4 of this article, in accordance with the procedure
of examination referred to in article 93, paragraph 2.

8. A supervisory authority may adopt standard contractual clauses for the
matters referred to in sections 3 and 4 of this article, in accordance
with the coherence mechanism referred to in article 63.

9. The contract or other legal act referred to in sections 3 and 4 shall include
in writing, including in electronic format.

10. Without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84, if a person in charge of the
treatment infringes this Regulation by determining the purposes and means of the
treatment, will be considered responsible for the treatment with respect to said
treatment."

Fourth, article 29 of the RGPD under the heading “Processing under the authority
of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment” establishes:

“The person in charge of the treatment and any person acting under the authority of the
person in charge or of the person in charge and has access to personal data may only
such data following the instructions of the person in charge, unless they are obliged to
bound to it by virtue of the Law of the Union or of the Member States.”

For its part, article 33 of the LOPDGDD under the heading “Responsible for processing
to” has:

"1. Access by a data processor to personal data
that are necessary for the provision of a service to the person in charge are not
will be considered data communication provided that what is established in the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law and in its implementing regulations.
roll.

2. You will be considered the data controller and not the data processor.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

189/212

who in his own name and without proof that he acts on behalf of another,
establish relationships with those affected even when there is a contract or legal act
with the content established in article 28.3 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Is
provision will not be applicable to treatment orders carried out within the framework
of public sector contracting legislation. It will also have the consideration
tion of responsible for the treatment who, appearing as the person in charge, used the
data for their own purposes.

3. The person in charge of the treatment will determine if, when the provision of
the services of the processor, the personal data must be destroyed, returned
to the person in charge or delivered, where appropriate, to a new person in charge. will not proceed
Destruction of the data when there is a legal provision that requires its con-
preservation, in which case they must be returned to the person in charge, who will guarantee their
conservation while such obligation persists.

4. The person in charge of the treatment may keep, duly blocked, the
data insofar as responsibilities could arise from their relationship with the person responsible.
treatment saber.

5. In the field of the public sector, the powers of the public sector may be attributed.
a data processor to a certain body of the General Administration
of the State, the Administration of the autonomous communities, the Entities
that make up the Local Administration or the Organizations linked to or dependent on
of the same through the adoption of a regulatory norm of said com-
petitions, which must incorporate the content required by article 28.3 of the Re-
regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In this way, taking into account the definitions of responsible and in charge of the
treatment contained both in the RGPD, and in the LOPDGDD, we reiterate must
considered that the defining criterion of the condition of data controller
is given by the power to determine the purposes and means of treatment, as
that the person in charge must limit his action to following the instructions of the person in charge.
responsible, being deemed responsible in the event that it determines ends and means, that is, if
uses for its own purposes the personal data that the person in charge has communicated
to carry out the treatment object of order, without prejudice to the fact that it may in-
incur in an infringement of the RGPD with said action.

Consequently, the existence of a data processor will be delimited by
the concurrence of two characteristics derived from the aforementioned regulations. From one side,
the impossibility of deciding on the purpose, content and use of the treatment and,
On the other hand, the non-existence of a direct relationship between the users and the person in charge,
that must in any case act in the name and on behalf of the person in charge as if the re-
relationship was between this one and those.

The essence of the function of data processor is that the personal data
are processed in the name and on behalf of the data controller.

The person in charge of the treatment can only carry out treatments on the instructions
documentation of the controller, unless required to do so by law
of the Union or of a Member State.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

190/212

Let us remember that according to the royal decree Royal Decree 463/2020, of March 14, the
MSND acts as delegated competent authority in its respective area of responsibility.
sability. Consequently, given that the objective or purpose of the treatment is the pre-
prevention of the coronavirus pandemic, corresponded and corresponds to the Ministry of
Health determine the ends and means to be used.

On the contrary, SEDIA - from the beginning - should have acted on the condition
of treatment manager, which is the figure in which she clearly fit
in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD, an issue that should have been implemented
do in accordance with the requirements of article 28.3 of the RGPD; however, being encar-
data subject has acted as data controller, as inferred
re of the proven facts.

Well, centered on the subject and in accordance with the above, another of the actors that intervene
come in the project is the trading company INDRA SOLUCIONES TECNOLOGÍAS
DE LA INFORMATION, S.L.U (hereinafter, INDRA).

It is the SGAD that, on June 15, 2020, agrees to contract the services
services for the development of an application for the traceability of contacts in relation to
the pandemic caused by COVID-19, to INDRA, for an amount of 330,537.52 euros.
rivers (VAT included).

The contract signed for this purpose is carried out through the emergency procedure, in
the terms of article 120 of Law 9/2017, of November 8, on Contracts of the
Public Sector, which transposes into the Spanish legal system the Directives
of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/23/UE and 2014/24/UE, of February 26-
ro of 2014 (hereinafter, LCSP).

An exceptional regime is thus established "when the Administration has to act
immediately due to catastrophic events, situations that occur
pose a serious danger or necessities that affect the national defense”. The end-
ultimate duty is to execute everything necessary “to remedy the event produced or
satisfy the supervening need”, article 120 of the LCSP.

The serious concurrent circumstances in these assumptions except the need to
process contracting file in the terms of article 116 and following of the
LCSP, even excluding the existence of adequate and sufficient credit.

That is why we do not have the Specific Administrative Clauses Documents.
cular of the aforementioned contract. The Resolution of the Central Administrative Court of Re-
Contractual courses no. 906/2018, of October 5, in its legal basis
seventh, indicates that the Specific Administrative Clauses are the instrument
legal document that delimits the conditions and circumstances of unfolding
of its beginning of the administrative hiring and that constitute the law of the contract. I know
are regulated in article 120 of the LCSP.

They determine, among other issues, "the criteria of solvency and adju-
dication of the contract; the social, labor and environmental considerations that, as
criteria of solvency, award or as special conditions of execution are

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

191/212

establish; the agreements and conditions defining the rights and obligations of
the parties to the contract; the forecast assignment of the contract except in cases in which the
same is not possible in accordance with the provisions of the second paragraph of article
214.1; the obligation of the successful bidder to comply with the salary conditions of the workers
guarantors in accordance with the applicable sectoral Collective Agreement; and the others mentioned
tions required by this Law and its implementing regulations. In the case of mixed contracts
cough, the legal regime applicable to its effects, compliance and termination will be detailed,
in accordance with the rules applicable to the different services merged into them”.

The Specific Administrative Clauses will also contain the provisions
descriptions in terms of data protection, since what is related to the development of the
contract in relation to the treatment of personal data that is entrusted to the
The person in charge of the treatment is also part of the signed contract. Being the clauses
clauses of these specifications of a legal nature, must be complemented with those of a legal nature.
technical ter of the Specifications of particular technical specifications (article 124 of the LCSP),
that will set from a technical point of view, how the project should be materially executed
administrative contract.

Set things like this, although the emergency procedure excludes the formalities
provided for in the LCSP regarding the processing of the corresponding file of
administrative contracting, does not exempt compliance with the protection regulations
of data. Where the law does not distinguish, we cannot do so, especially if what
it is about the defense of a Fundamental Right. proactive responsibility does not
is blurred in these cases, but remains fully in force, in such a way that
The person responsible for the treatment must comply with the obligations imposed by the
RGPD and the LOPDGDD.

On the date the agreement was adopted, June 2020, SEDIA acted as res-
responsible for the treatment, and must, therefore, comply with the requirements of the principle
pio of proactive responsibility and with article 28.3 RGPD.

And this, because the data controller is the one who has the obligation to guarantee
the application of data protection regulations and the protection of the rights of
interested parties, as well as being able to prove it (articles 5.2, 24, 28 and 32 of the
GDPR). The control of compliance with the law extends throughout the treatment.
lie, from the beginning to the end. The data controller must act, in
in any case, in a diligent, conscious, committed and active manner.

Acting as responsible, he should have included in the signed administrative contract, the information
training required in article 28.3 of the RGPD (object, duration, nature, purpose
of the treatment, type of personal data and categories of interested parties, obligations and
rights of the controller...), which has not occurred in the case analyzed.

And if he had acted in the capacity of person in charge of the treatment -which is the one that con-
form to the RGPD corresponded to him but that he did not hold-, he should have required the
responsible for the treatment the prior authorization required by the RGPD in writing, before
recourse to another person in charge (INDRA) to develop the entrusted service (ar-
article 28.2 of the RGPD).

Furthermore, neither in the Hiring Agreement nor in the Terms and Conditions

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

192/212

tions, for the design, development, pilot and evaluation of the system, an al-
guna that attributes to INDRA the condition of data processor. Just pick-
ge -in general-, a Confidentiality Clause, another Personal Data Protection Clause,
and another Security, all of them very abstract to which we have already referred
in the report of previous actions.

Nor does it include a single reference to the data controller.

The facts described are constitutive of the infraction foreseen in article 83.4.a)
of the GDPR.

IX

Let us now refer to the unequivocal position that we have maintained in the Reports of the
Legal Office of the AEPD 17/2020 and 32/2020.

For the AEPD “all processing of personal data that must be carried out as a consequence
consequence of the pandemic and the declaration of the State of alarm must respect the
fundamental right to the protection of personal data, adjusting to the provisions
RGPD, which allows… to establish specific rules regarding the exercise
of said right, adjusted to the RGPD itself, as well as to the doctrine elaborated by the
Constitutional Court when interpreting article 18.4 of our Constitution, singularly
mind regarding the principle of proportionality…” .

Therefore, from the outset, there is no impossibility to harmonize the rights and interests
users, whose protection requires little justification given the epidemiological situation.
logic that happened.

It is now time to go back to FD VI where we referred to the article
5.1 of the GDPR.

The data controller must notify data subjects and the general public
that it will treat the data lawfully, loyally and transparently and must be able to demonstrate
ensure that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD. Keep going
alleging in the motion for a resolution that in no case were data from
health of the participants in the pilot. This statement has been clarified in
the FD V.

It also argues that the Radar COVID team has been reviewing and updating the
documents with the aim of improving their content and facilitating their reading and understanding.

Paragraph 1 of the Transparency Guidelines under Regulation (EU)
2016/679 adopted on November 29, 2017, indicates:

1. Transparency is a global GDPR obligation that applies to three areas-
fundamental cough:

1) the provision of information to the interested parties in relation to the treatment
equitable;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

193/212

2) how data controllers communicate with data subjects regarding
regarding your rights under the GDPR; Y

3) how data controllers facilitate data subjects to exercise their
Rights.

Transparency is an obligation of the controller, but also a right of the
interested. Transparency ensures that data processing does not remain
hidden from them and is intrinsically linked to loyalty and the new principle.
proactive liability principle that requires processing operations to be
transparent so that data controllers can demonstrate compliance
lien of their obligations.

Recital 39 of the GDPR says:

“The principle of transparency requires that all information and communication regarding
to the processing of said data is easily accessible and easy to understand, and that
use simple and clear language. This principle refers in particular to the
information of the interested parties on the identity of the person in charge of the treatment
and the purposes of the same and the information added to guarantee a treatment
fair and transparent with respect to the natural persons affected and their right to
obtain confirmation and communication of personal data concerning them
that are subject to treatment.”

From the proven facts, it is accredited that the first version of the application
scheduled for the pilot program (July 2020), contained in two different documents the information
privacy training:

Terms of use:
https://radarcovid.covid19.gob.es/terms-of-service/use-conditions.html

Privacy Policy:
https://radarcovid.covid19.gob.es/terms-of-service/privacy-policy.html

However, none of them defined who was responsible or in charge of the treatment.
I lie.

In the "Conditions of use", there was only a clause related to the ownership
of the application:

"5. Owner of the application The General Secretariat of Digital Administration
(SGAD), dependent on the Secretary of State for Digitization and Intelligence
Artificial of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, is the TI-
TULAR of the Radar COVID application. (…)”

The information made available to the public was not provided concisely,
transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language.

SEDIA was also requested in the test practice for a copy of the record of the actions
personal data processing activities carried out in the pilot project, to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

194/212

purposes of verifying compliance with carrying the RAT and pointed out that:

“As Responsible for Treatment, the Ministry of Health incorporated its Re-
record of Treatment Activities, the following treatment, available at
https://www.mscbs.gob.es/servCiudadanos/proteccionDatos/docs/RAT_MSCBS.-
pdf”

In such record of treatment activities, it appears as the person in charge of the treatment.
the General Secretariat of Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the National System
of health.

Regarding the accessibility of the Radar COVID-19 application, SEDIA argues that
The conditions of use and privacy policy have always been accessible to users.
interested, both from the mobile application and from the web http://radarcovid.go-
b.es, however, in the month of September, an action was opened by the Ombudsman
of the People against SEDIA for the lack of adaptation of the tracking application of
infections, which was not accessible, especially for people with living problems.
soft. The Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence recognized this
circumstance by the Twitter channel.

In this sense, the Transparency Guidelines under Regulation (EU)
2016/679 adopted on November 29, 2017 indicate in section 16:

16. Similarly, if a data controller is aware that their data
goods or services are used by other vulnerable members of society,
including people with disabilities or people with problems accessing
to the information, or are directed to them, the person in charge must take into account
the vulnerabilities of such stakeholders in its assessment of how to ensure
that complies with its obligations of transparency in relation to said interested parties.
This is related to the need for a data controller to assess
Evaluate the probable level of understanding of your audience, as indicated in the
Section 9. "In writing or by other means."

On the other hand, regarding the various revisions in the "Terms of use" and "Policy-
privacy” let us not forget, that the person in charge must observe the same princi-
pios when communicating both the initial privacy statements and in any
any material or material changes you make subsequently. adduces in the al-
tions to the motion for a resolution which, following the principle of responsibility
proactively, has been reviewing and updating the documents with the aim of improving its
content and understanding, which is not in doubt.

The incorporated modifications are considerable and affect various aspects.

On July 28, 2020, SEDIA provides a revised document of "Conditions
of use”, where it is observed that they have eliminated point 5, relative to the “Holder of the application”.
cation”, replacing it with “Intellectual and industrial property”.

It continues without informing about the identity of the data controller or
about the data of the DPD, which is not even mentioned in the Privacy Policy.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

195/212

Let us refer to the CEPD Guidelines 04/2020, which in section 25 say:

“To ensure accountability, it must be clearly defined who is
those responsible for data processing in this type of application. in opinion
of the EDPB, it could be the national health authorities, although it is possible to
see also other formulas. In any case, if the deployment of scraping applications
contact management involves different agents, it is important that their roles and
responsibilities are clearly delineated from the outset and explained
quen users.”

The Privacy Policy in its final version informs:

“This application is responsible for processing both the MSND and
the CCAAs. Likewise, the SGAD is in charge of the treatment.”

In relation to the categories of data, the initial version collects information:
 

“− The keys of temporary exhibition (…)
− A 12-digit one-time confirmation code (…)
− Voluntary questionnaire to collect information on the experience of
use of the application, understanding of it or perception of privacy
among others."

And the final version:

“− The keys of temporary exhibition (…)
− A 12-digit one-time confirmation code (…)
− The user's consent, if applicable, for the remission of exposure keys.
temporary assignment to the European Node for Interoperability of Tracing Applications
contacts.
− The notice of notification of exposure, in order to collect anomalous statistics
minimum and aggregate of the volume of notifications produced by the system through
of contact tracing. These data allow estimating how many users have been
alerted by the Application, of a potential risk of infection, without being able to trace
his identity."

The Privacy Policies must be concrete and specific about the treatment of
personal data that is carried out.

The same happens with the bases of legality: they are not specified sufficiently
clear in the initial version or in the final version:
Initial version.

“10. What is the legitimacy for the treatment of your data? The data generated
two will be treated legitimately with the following legal bases:
− The user's free, specific, informed and unequivocal consent of the
USER, making this privacy policy available to you, which must-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

196/212

You will accept by marking the box provided for this purpose.
− Reasons of public interest in the field of public health, such as the protection
against serious cross-border threats to health (article 9.2 i) of the RGPD),
for the treatment of health data (for example, the state of a person
infected or information about symptoms, etc.).
− Fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
public rights conferred on the data controller (article 6.1 e) RGPD).
− Archive purposes of public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or
statistical purposes (article 9.2 j) RGPD).”

In the definitive version it eliminates question number 10 and refers to the bases in a
generic It also eliminates the base relative to article 9.2.j) and introduces 9.2.h).

“All information will be collected for strictly public interest purposes in the
field of public health, and in view of the decreed health emergency situation,
in order to protect and safeguard an interest essential to people's lives,
in the terms described in this privacy policy, and in accordance with the articles
6.1.a), 9.2.a), 6.1.c), 6.1.d), 6.1.e), 9.2.c), 9.2.h) and 9.2.i).
The applicable legislation is listed below:
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
General Data Protection Document).
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and ga-
guarantee of digital rights.
Organic Law 3/1986, of April 14, on Special Measures in Health Matters
Public.
Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.
Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health.
Royal Decree Law 21/2020, of June 9, on urgent prevention measures, con-
care and coordination to deal with the health crisis caused by CO-
VID-19.
Agreement of October 9, 2020, between the METD (SEDIA) and the MSND regarding the
“Radar COVID” application.”

Regarding the purposes of the treatment, the initial version informs:

 − Offer you information on contacts considered to be at risk of exposure to
the COVID-19.
− Provide you with practical advice and recommendations for actions to follow
According to situations of risk in the face of quarantine or self-quarantine-
na.

And the definitive version adds:

− The data will always and only be used anonymously for statistical purposes.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

197/212

cos and epidemiological.

Let us remember that it eliminated the basis of article 9.2.j) of the RGPD.

In fact, in the allegations to the initial agreement, it stated that: “Finally, it was indicated
Note that the application does not register users, nor does it obtain information from the device.
moving positive. Notwithstanding all of the above, it is not ruled out that in the future
carry out, by the competent organisms, analysis of aggregated data on volume
of downloads of the application, volume of infected users, or other indicators
anonymous and aggregated, for scientific research projects, always complying
data protection regulations.”

Lastly, regarding the information regarding Who has access to your data?
initial release reports:

“The Owner of the Application may give access or transmit the data to third parties pro-
service providers, with whom it has signed treatment order agreements.
processing of data, and that they only access said information to provide a
service in favor and on behalf of the person in charge.”

And the definitive version adds:

“The data managed by the mobile application (daily keys for temperature exposure)
ephemeral Bluetooth identifiers) are stored only on the device.
user's site for the purposes of being able to make calculations and notify the USER about
your risk of exposure to COVID-19.
Only in the case of reporting a positive diagnosis for COVID-19, the passwords for
temporary exposure of the last 14 days generated on the device, and under the
explicit and unequivocal consent of the USER, are uploaded to the server for
its dissemination to all USERS of this system.
These keys have nothing to do with the identity of the mobile devices.
them or with personal data of the USERS of the Application.
Reported exposure notification advisories are only used for the management of
generation of aggregated and anonymous statistical data.”

In short, the Privacy Policy has been modified in numerous aspects until-
to such an extent that it represents an increase of almost 700 words with respect to the initial version.
that SEDIA justifies in the new functionalities it offers (such as the connection
of Radar COVID to the European interoperability node) and that has led to the update
zation of the conditions of use and privacy policy, in order to provide transparency
cia and information to the users of the application.

Article 5.1.a) of the RGPD must be connected with the provisions of article 12.1 and 2
of the RGPD that defines the regime applicable to the “Transparency of information, co-
communication and modalities of exercising the rights of the interested party”:

"1. The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the
interested all information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication under articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, with clear language and
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

198/212

simple, in particular any information directed specifically at a child. The
information will be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable,
by electronic means. When requested by the interested party, the information may be
be verbally requested provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by
other media.
2. The data controller shall facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their rights.
chos by virtue of articles 15 to 22. (…)”

The initial version of the Privacy Policy denied the exercise of rights 15 to
22 of the GDPR:

“8. What are your rights and how can you control your data? Given that the
Radar COVID application does not store personal data, the
rights of access, rectification, deletion, limitation, opposition and portability,
as well as not to be subject to decisions based solely on the autho-
tomato of your data. In any case, we are obliged to tell you that
attends at all times the right to file a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency (www.aepd.es).”

The definitive privacy policy recognizes the aforementioned rights, except that of
portability.

In short, SEDIA, acting as data controller, did not take the necessary measures
timely to provide the interested party with all the information in the terms established
cen articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD.

This information should have been provided in a concise, transparent, intelligible and
easy access, with clear and simple language, and, in addition, where appropriate, viewable.

This is especially pertinent in situations such as the one that occurs, in which the
proliferation of agents and the technological complexity of the application make it
difficult for citizens to know and understand if they are being collected, by whom and with
what purpose, personal data that concerns you, as in the case analyzed.

Even in a situation such as the one that occurred, it is necessary to act in accordance with the regulations of
data protection. The legal system already contains provisions applicable to the control
of epidemics and their spread, especially in the event of natural disasters or
human gene (considering 46, articles 6.1.e), 6.1.d), 9.2.g) and i) of the RGPD).

In fact, the state of alarm has highlighted the protagonism and relevance
of the right to data protection that reaches a substantial meaning, especially
when the processing of special categories of data is at stake.

Add, in addition, a reference to article 13 of the RGPD that, in relation to the “Information
information that must be provided when the personal data is obtained from the interested party.
do” has:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the res-
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

199/212

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
sitting;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;

c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended and the legal basis
ca of treatment; (...);

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in
Their case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party.
certain country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the place where they are made available.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained,
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee a treatment of data
loyal and transparent cough:

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to
the personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to
data portability;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the ar-
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent
at any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

(…)

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, inform
significant insight into applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
foreseen consequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the data controller plans further data processing
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide
to the interested party, prior to said subsequent treatment, information about that
other purpose and any additional relevant information within the meaning of paragraph 2.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

200/212

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading “Transparency and information
tion to the affected” indicates:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in art.
Article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information
to which the following section refers and indicating an electronic address
ca or other means that allows easy and immediate access to the remaining
information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain,
at least:
a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.

b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption
of automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him
or significantly affect you in a similar way, when this right of
in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

3. When the personal data had not been obtained from the affected party, the res-
responsible may comply with the duty of information established in article
14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the latter with the basic information
indicated in the previous section, indicating an electronic address or other means
that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information. In
these assumptions, the basic information will also include: a) The categories of data
cough subject to treatment. b) The sources from which the data came.”

Thus, the informative duty linked to the guarantees of the right to protection
of data in the terms of article 13 of the RGPD and 11 of the LOPDGDD, is part
of the guarantees linked to the fundamental right to the protection of personal data.
ter personal, which must necessarily be respected.

Emphasize that initially no information was included regarding the person in charge,
or the rights of articles 15 to 22. Nor in the definitive version has
including the information related to the DPO contrary to what SEDIA affirms, which
points to the existence of a link to the MSND to contact the DPD, a link that
does not exist.

The facts described are constitutive of the infraction foreseen in article 83.5 of the
GDPR, sections a) and b).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

201/212

X

Let's link this last aspect with another of a relevant nature that includes the RGPD.

We refer to the legal regime applicable to the “Impact Assessment related to the
data protection” (hereinafter, EIPD) which is as follows:

Recital 89 of the RGPD states:

“(…) Therefore, these general obligations of indiscriminate notification must
eliminated and replaced by effective procedures and mechanisms that focus on
train, instead, in the types of processing operations that, by their nature,
size, scope, context and purposes, probably entail a high risk for the de-
rights and freedoms of natural persons. These types of treatment operations
training may be, in particular, those involving the use of new technologies, or
are of a new class and the data controller has not previously performed
mind an impact assessment related to data protection, or if they are
necessary given the time elapsed since the initial treatment.”

Also recital 90 of the RGPD says:

“In such cases, the person in charge must carry out, before the treatment, a
impact assessment relating to data protection in order to assess the par-
particular severity and likelihood of the high risk, taking into account the nature,
scope, context and purposes of the treatment and the origins of the risk. Said evalua-
impact assessment should include, in particular, the measures, guarantees and mechanisms
provided to mitigate the risk, guarantee the protection of personal data and
demonstrate compliance with this Regulation.”

Likewise, recital 91 of the RGPD says:

“The foregoing should apply, in particular, to large-scale treatment operations.
scale that seek to process a considerable amount of personal data at the
regional, national or supranational and that could affect a large number of in-
concerned and likely to involve a high risk, for example, because of their sensitivity
possibility, when, depending on the level of technical knowledge achieved,
has used a new technology on a large scale and other treatment operations
that entail a high risk for the rights and freedoms of the interested parties.
two, in particular when these operations make it more difficult for the interested parties
the exercise of their rights. (…)”

Article 35 of the GDPR states:

"1. When a type of treatment, particularly if it uses newer
technologies, by their nature, scope, context or purposes, entails a high risk
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller
will carry out, before the treatment, an evaluation of the impact of the operations
tions of treatment in the protection of personal data. A single evaluation
may undertake a series of similar processing operations involving some
similar risks.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

202/212

2. The person in charge of the treatment will obtain the advice of the delegate of pro-
data protection, if appointed, when conducting the relative impact assessment
to data protection.

3. The data protection impact assessment referred to
Paragraph 1 will be required in particular in the event of:

 a) systematic and exhaustive evaluation of personal aspects of natural persons
cas that is based on automated processing, such as profiling,
and on the basis of which decisions are made that produce legal effects for the
natural persons or that significantly affect them in a similar way;

b) large-scale processing of the special categories of data referred to
Article 9, paragraph 1, or personal data relating to convictions and in-
penal fractions referred to in article 10, or

c) large-scale systematic observation of a publicly accessible area.

4. The control authority shall establish and publish a list of the types of operations
treatment tions that require an impact assessment relative to the production
data protection in accordance with section 1. The Community supervisory authority
It shall communicate these lists to the Committee referred to in article 68.

5. The control authority may also establish and publish the list of types
of treatment that do not require impact assessments related to the protection
of data. The control authority shall communicate these lists to the Committee.

6. Before adopting the lists referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5, the authority of
competent control will apply the coherence mechanism contemplated in art.
Article 63 if those lists include processing activities that are related
with the offer of goods or services to interested parties or with the observation of the behavior
treatment of these in several Member States, or treatment activities that
may substantially affect the free circulation of personal data in the
Union.

7. The evaluation shall include at least: a) a systematic description of
the planned treatment operations and the purposes of the treatment, including,
where appropriate, the legitimate interest pursued by the data controller;
b) an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the trading operations
treatment with respect to its purpose; c) an assessment of the risks to the de-
rights and freedoms of the interested parties referred to in section 1, and d) the me-
measures planned to deal with the risks, including guarantees, security measures,
and mechanisms that guarantee the protection of personal data, and to demonstrate
comply with this Regulation, taking into account the rights
and legitimate interests of the interested parties and other affected persons.

8. Compliance with the approved codes of conduct referred to in article
article 40 by the corresponding managers or managers, it will be duly
taken into account when assessing the impact of treatment operations

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

203/212

carried out by said managers or managers, in particular for the purposes of
data protection impact assessment.

9. When appropriate, the person in charge will obtain the opinion of the interested parties or
their representatives in relation to the planned treatment, without prejudice to the pro-
protection of public or commercial interests or the security of operations
of treatment.

10. When the treatment in accordance with article 6, paragraph 1, letters c) or
e), has its legal basis in the Law of the Union or in the Law of the State
member that applies to the data controller, such Law regulates the operation
specific ration of treatment or set of operations in question, and it is already
has carried out an impact assessment related to data protection as
part of an overall impact assessment in the context of decision-making
this legal basis, sections 1 to 7 will not apply except if the States
two members consider it necessary to carry out this evaluation prior to the activities
treatment lives.

11. If necessary, the person in charge will examine whether the treatment is in accordance
with the data protection impact assessment, at least when
there is a change in the risk represented by the treatment operations.”

Likewise, section 39 of the CEPD Guidelines 04/2020 says:

“Finally, the EDPB considers that an impact assessment must be carried out
Data Protection Agreement (EIPD) before starting to use an application.
cation of this type because it is considered that the treatment may entail a
high risk (health data, prior large-scale adoption, systematic follow-up)
tico, use of a new technological solution). The CEPD strongly recommends
citedly the publication of the DPIA.”

The AEPD, in compliance with the mandate provided for in article 35.4 of the RGPD, published
an indicative and non-exhaustive list of types of treatment that require an evaluation
impact statement regarding data protection. It is based on the established criteria
by the Article 29 Working Group in the guide WP248 “Guidelines on the evaluation
data protection impact statement (EIPD) and to determine whether the processing
“probably entails a high risk” for the purposes of the RGPD”, complementing
do the provisions of the Guidelines.

Among the treatments in which an EIPD is necessary, there are:

"3. Treatments involving observation, monitoring, supervision,
geolocation or control of the interested party in a systematic and exhaustive way, including
including the collection of data and metadata through networks, applications or in
public access areas, as well as the processing of unique identifiers
that allow the identification of users of services of the information society
training such as web services, interactive TV, mobile applications,
vile etc

4. Treatments that imply the use of special categories of data to which

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

204/212

referred to in article 9.1 of the RGPD, data related to convictions or infractions
criminal penalties referred to in article 10 of the RGPD or data that allow
determine the financial situation or equity solvency or deduce information
tion on persons related to special categories of data.

(…)

7. Processing involving the use of large-scale data. To determine
If a treatment can be considered on a large scale, the criteria will be considered.
established in guide WP243 “Guidelines on protection delegates”
Data Protection (DPD)” of the Article 29 Working Group.

(…)

10. Treatments that imply the use of new technologies or a use
innovator of established technologies, including the use of technologies
on a new scale, with a new objective or combined with others, in a
that involves new ways of collecting and using data with risk to
the rights and freedoms of people. (…)”

The EDPB develops the definition of DPIA in the WP248 Guidelines as: “… a pro-
process designed to describe the treatment, assess its necessity and proportionality
and help manage risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons
derived from the processing of personal data, evaluating them and determining the measures
you give to address them.”

EIPD is inextricably linked to the principle of proactive responsibility,
to the principle of data protection by design and data protection by default.

Data protection by design and by default is regulated in article 25
of the RGPD already mentioned in the FD VI.

The principle of privacy by design is an example of the passage from reactivity to
proactivity and the risk approach imposed by the GDPR. Therefore, from the states
God more initial planning of a treatment should be considered this
principle that implies that the person in charge of the treatment from the moment in which
designs an eventual treatment of personal data must protect the personal data
rights and the rights of the interested parties and not only when the
treatment. This is expressed in the CEPD Guidelines 4/2019 regarding article 25
Data protection by design and by default.

The principle of privacy by design is linked to the EIPD as it is a tool
lie to determine and assess the risks of treatment, so that they can
instrument the appropriate technical and organizational measures to avoid ma-
materialization of the risks detected. As established by the Working Group of the
Article 29 in its Guidelines on Protection Impact Assessment
of data (EIPD) and to determine if the treatment «likely carries a high
risk» for the purposes of the RGPD, “The EIPD must be perceived as an instrument to help
in making treatment decisions.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

205/212

Regarding what interests us now, we will indicate that the EIPD is the responsibility of the
responsible for the treatment, even if it is entrusted to a third party. Temporarily
“should be started as early as feasible in the design of the treatment operation
even though some of the treatment operations are not yet known.” So
determined in the Guidelines on Protection Impact Assessment
of data (EIPD) and to determine if the treatment «likely carries a high
risk” for the purposes of the GDPR.

In addition, it requires the participation of the DPD, since it must be required by the person in charge
of the treatment for the elaboration of the EIPD and control its realization, according to
comes article 35.2 and article 39.1.c) of the RGPD.

In this regard, the Guidelines on Group data protection officers
of Labor of article 29, adopted on December 13, 2016 and revised for the last
once and adopted on April 5, 2017, give this figure a relevant role and
fundamental when indicating that "following the principle of data protection from the
design, to article 35, section 2, specifically establishes that the person responsible for the
treatment will “seek the advice” of the DPO when conducting an assessment of
impact on data protection. In turn, article 39, paragraph 1, letter c),
imposes on the DPO the obligation to "provide the advice requested about
the impact assessment related to data protection and supervise its application of
in accordance with article 35»”. It is important to highlight the recommendation contained
in the aforementioned Guidelines in relation to the specific functions of the DPO in relation to
tion with the EIPD, since it must check “if the impact assessment related to the
data protection has been carried out correctly or not and if its conclusions (if
to go ahead or not with the treatment and what safeguards to apply) are in accordance
with the GDPR”.

In any case, and regarding the EIPD, the Article 29 Working Group recommends
that the data controller seek advice from the DPO on the following
issues:

“ . whether or not an impact assessment should be carried out in relation to the protection
data tion;
. what methodology should be followed when carrying out an impact assessment;
. whether the impact assessment should be carried out in the organization itself or sub-
contract;
. what safeguards (including technical and organizational measures) should be applied
be taken to mitigate any risk to the rights and interests of the interested parties.
sados
. whether the data protection impact assessment has been carried out
carried out correctly or not and whether its conclusions (whether or not to go ahead with the
treatment and what safeguards to apply) are in accordance with the RGPD”.

The lack of EIPD, as well as its defective, incomplete, late implementation or without the participation
cipation of the DPD supposes a violation of the principle of proactive responsibility and
of privacy by design, as well as the provisions of the RGPD on the
EIPD.

In the first requirement made to SEDIA, the following was required: Copy of the analysis of
risks on the rights and freedoms of the users of the app made on the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

206/212

possible data processing and impact assessment related to data protection
to do on this initiative.

In response to this request, on June 18, 2020, it reports: “The document
The risk analysis element is under development as the process progresses.
name of the solution, not being available yet”.

The Agency requests the evaluation again in a second request and will not be
until September 22, 2020, when he contributes what he communicates to us at that time.
He stated that it was a first version of the impact assessment. The second of the ver-
sions is provided on October 30, 2020. And this is because on the occasion of the procedure
test has been provided by SEDIA for the first time, a version of an EIPD
prior to those cited, dated August 2020.

Let us emphasize that the launch of the pilot project in La Gomera has been taking place since
June 29, 2020 through July 29, 2020 and nationwide, commissioning
Vice of the App occurs on August 19, 2020.

Therefore, the treatment of the data materialized before elaborating the EIPD, in-
complying with the provisions of article 35 RGPD.

SEDIA, which acted as data controller, should have drawn up a
EIPD from the beginning of the development and implementation of the Radar COVID application and, in
in any case, before the processing of personal data took place. Without em-
However, as evidenced by the proven facts, the first EIPD is from August
2020 and was developed for the purpose of launching the application nationwide. identical
data, treatments and risks are present in the phase of the pilot project that with
later without any change or event taking place except the territorial amplification
application history.

The existence of a first EIPD in August 2020 also denotes a flagrant fault.
privacy by design, since the data controller must plan
treatment and assess the risks, before the treatment itself occurs.
AC. However, there has been a processing of personal data without a minimum and
brief analysis that would indicate if personal data were being processed and what they were, in
where applicable, possible risks affecting the rights and freedoms of citizens
damage, as well as the need or not to carry out an EIPD.

To all this, we must add that, initially, SEDIA told the AEPD that
no personal data was being processed. This pri-
mere allegation before the AEPD when the first time it verifies that data was processed
personal data is in the EIPD of August 2020 as stated in the proven facts.
two.

Moreover, when asked by SEDIA in the process of testing the EIPD of the pilot project,
to Radar COVID indicates that “For the pilot project, given its characteristics of si-
pandemic simulation, no impact assessment document was generated from
data protection, beyond progressing the successive drafts of what
the dessert would be version 1.0 of the document, available on August 12, 2020”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

207/212

The truth is that this initial lack of foresight shows that there was no EIPD, no
However, data processing of a nature was actually being carried out
staff during the Radar COVID pilot project. For this purpose we must mention
that to arrive at the affirmation that there is no processing of personal data, it is necessary
mandatory description to perform at least an initial evaluation of such extreme to rule out
tarlo, an issue that has not been accredited by SEDIA even after the process of
Test.

It should also be noted that it does not appear in the documentation sent to the AEPD, documents
any moment in which the advice and the obligatory participation of the
DPD in EIPD.

In relation to the realization of the EIPD of the phase of the pilot project Radar COVID,
SEDIA asserted in the evidence process that “The Data Protection Delegate
of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation was not consulted with the
effects of generating the first version of the impact assessment document
to data protection, as it is not a mandatory procedure.

However, article 35 of the RGPD, as we anticipated, establishes in its section
second than “2. The data controller will seek the advice of the delegate
data protection officer, if appointed, when conducting the impact assessment
regarding data protection”.

In the same sense, article 39.1.c) of the RGPD provides that the DPD has the function,
among others, to “offer the advice requested about the evaluation of
data protection impact and monitor its application accordingly
with article 35”.

Derived from the above, we can conclude that the RGPD imposes on the person responsible for the
as part of its obligations, seek the advice of the DPD when carrying out
czar the EIPD, and the DPD must also supervise the application of the EIPD.

In the same vein, the Guidelines on impact assessment relating to the protection
data (DPIA) and to determine whether the processing "is likely to involve a
high risk” for the purposes of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, adopted on April 4, 2017
and last revised and adopted on October 4, 2017 establish that it is
obliged to carry out an EIPD “The person in charge, together with the data protection delegate,
data and those in charge of the treatment” documenting the opinions and recommendations
tions of the DPD.

Although it may be true what SEDIA pointed out that there was no procedure
specific interaction with the DPO in your organization, this does not prevent you from being
request their advice, not only when deemed convenient by the person in charge,
ble of the treatment in attention to the circumstances, but obligatorily in relation
with the realization of the EIPD. And this because, in addition, as prescribed in the article
38.1 of the RGPD “The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will guarantee that the de-
data protection legacy participates appropriately and in a timely manner in
all matters relating to the protection of personal data.

For the sake of completeness, and for illustrative purposes only, the Guidelines on

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

208/212

data protection legacies of the aforementioned Article 29 Working Group, es-
establish on the EIPD and the DPD that the data controller must "Ensure
that the DPO is informed and consulted from the beginning will facilitate compliance with the
GDPR, will encourage a privacy-by-design approach and therefore should
be a standard procedure in the governance of the organization”.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, SEDIA affirms that “In any case, after the
elaboration of the impact evaluation, the criterion of this evaluation was obtained by telephone.
Data Protection Delegate, on the open publication of this evaluation
of impact. The criterion provided was that there was no experience in the matter of publishing
tion of these documents.

The request for advice from the DPD was subsequent to the preparation of the EIPD and cir-
consigned to the consultation on the open publication of the EIPD, in the terms of the
article 39.1.c) of the RGPD, not on the performance of the evaluation itself, which does not
prevents a violation of data protection regulations from occurring.

Lastly, we will indicate that the subsequent realization of the EIPD does not "correct" the lack of
realization of this in a timely manner and with the participation of all stakeholders
necessary, especially since the lack of risk assessment and adoption
of the appropriate technical and organizational measures, has already produced an intangible damage
in the rights and freedoms of citizens, more reprehensible when the treatment
It is carried out by a Public Administration.

The facts described are constitutive of the infraction foreseen in article 83.4.a)
of the GDPR.

eleventh

Next, a brief reference to article 25.1 of the RGPD, already referred to, is appropriate.
in FD VI and X.

In an increasingly digital world, adherence to data protection by design and
by default plays a crucial role in promoting privacy and protection.
tion of data in society.

This Agency registered several claims in which a vulnerability was denounced.
ity in the design of the application.

According to SEDIA, this vulnerability was already known by the development team
of Radar COVID, since it appeared in at least one technical document published in
April 2020 by the DP3T team: Privacy and Security Risk Evaluation of Digital Proxi-
mity Tracing Systems.

However, the development team did not find it necessary to resolve this issue in
the first versions since, to exploit this vulnerability, it was necessary to assume
have a remote scenario where the telecommunications operator was interested in
do in obtaining this clinical information from their clients by studying data traffic
generated by the Radar COVID App.

The application was put into service nationwide on August 19, 2020. The vulnerability

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

209/212

This probability was corrected in the rise corresponding to October 8, 2020, for the following
following versions of the application: Android, version 1.0.9, Apple, version 1.0.8.

Recital 78 of the RGPD says:

“The protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with respect to
processing of personal data requires the adoption of technical and organizational measures
appropriate measures in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of the
this Regulation. In order to demonstrate compliance with this
Regulation, the data controller must adopt internal policies and apply
Take measures that comply in particular with the data protection principles described
by design and default. Said measures could consist, among others, of reducing
minimize the processing of personal data, pseudonymize as soon as possible
personal data, give transparency to the functions and data processing
personal, allowing interested parties to supervise the processing of data and to
responsible for the treatment create and improve security elements. To the develop-
develop, design, select, and use applications, services, and products that are
used in the processing of personal data or that process personal data to
fulfill their role, producers of the products, services and
applications to take into account the right to data protection when
develop and design these products, services and applications, and to ensure
ensure, with due regard to the state of the art, that those responsible and
data processors are in a position to fulfill their obligations in
matter of data protection. The principles of data protection from the
design and default must also be considered in the context of the con-
public dealings.”

Likewise, recital 83 of the RGPD says:

“In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the provisions of
this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate the risks
inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption. These
measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including the confidentiality
ciality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application with
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be protected.
gerse. When assessing risk in relation to data security, consideration should be given to
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access
unauthorized access to said data, which may in particular cause damage and
physical, material or immaterial damages.”

SEDIA after asserting in the practice of evidence that the data collected and generated
two by the application do not allow, by default, the direct identification of the user or
its device, prevent that "however, and adhering to Considering 30 of the
European Data Protection Regulation, users could become identifiable.
cables by association to some online identifier provided by the device
or other types of tools or protocols.”

At this time we must remember the concept of personal data provided for in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

210/212

RGPD and bring up the EIPD prepared by SEDIA, in August 2020, carried out-
in attention to the presence of personal data and the treatment carried out on the
themselves.

Thus, after acknowledging the existence of personal data involved, it refers to
reference to the fact that “the application has been designed respecting, as a main premise, the
current data protection regulations and especially applying all the measures
to reduce possible risks, applying all technical and organizational measures
appropriate measures designed to effectively apply the principles of protection of
data".

However, the first EIPD they present is dated August 2020, once
that the processing of personal data had already occurred through the project pi-
lotto COVID Radar

In fact, it is openly admitted in test practice that “For the pilot project
Given its pandemic simulation characteristics, no document was generated.
data protection impact assessment process, beyond progressing
the successive drafts of what would ultimately be version 1.0 of the document, dis-
available on August 12, 2020”.

However, we must emphasize that the only change was the decision of the launch
at the national level of the application, without any substantial variation occurring in-
between the pilot project and the implementation of the final application in terms of treatment
lying of personal data.

In accordance with the above, the design of the application has not had pre-
effectively lays down the principles applicable to data protection.

In the application of technical and organizational security measures, the person in charge
has not taken into consideration the risks that this treatment represented. While
that the treatment of the IP address was necessary for the operation of the application.
tion, the possibility of associating the IP with the rise of a positive test was not. This tra-
Data processing contradicts what is stated in question 8 of the latest version of the
privacy policy, which emphasizes that "these keys have no relation
with the identity of the mobile devices or with the personal data of the USERS
of the application".

And even being aware of the risk, they did not integrate the necessary guarantees to win.
guarantee the confidentiality of the data and the resilience of the systems.

The facts described are constitutive of the infraction foreseen in article 83.4.a)
of the GDPR.

XII

The AEPD is aware of the extraordinary and emergency situation that has generated
the COVID pandemic leading to the adoption of multiple measures to put
end the seriousness of the situation.

It is also evident that privacy, the right to protection of personal data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

211/212

nals, it cannot be an obstacle in the technological advances to combat the pandemic.
mine. As stated in recital 4 of the RGPD: the processing of personal data
it must be conceived to serve humanity. The right to protection of data
personal rights is not an absolute right, but must be considered in relation to
their role in society and maintain a balance with other fundamental rights,
in accordance with the principle of proportionality.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in this context, we cannot ignore that the primary function
of the AEPD refers to the effective defense of the fundamental right to the protection of
personal data of citizens.

From what has been exposed so far, it must be concluded that the proven facts violate the dis-
placed in articles: 5.1.a), 5.2, 12, 13, 25, 28.3, 28.10 and 35 of the RGPD, with the al-
scope expressed in the previous FD, which supposes the commission of the infractions
typified in article 83 sections 4.a), 5.a) and 5.b) of the RGPD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the director of the AEPD
RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the SECRETARIAT OF STATE FOR DIGITIZATION AND INTER-
ARTIFICIAL LEGISLATION the sanction of WARNING for infraction of the following
you items:

- Articles 5.1.a) and 5.2 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and in
article 72.1. a) of the LOPDGDD, for the sole purpose of determining the
prescription bolts.

- Articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD and in the
Article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD, for the sole purpose of determining the deadlines
of prescription.

- Article 25 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD and in the
Article 73 of the LOPDGDD in section d), for the sole purpose of determining
prescription periods.

- Article 28.3 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD and in the
Article 73 of the LOPDGDD in section k), for the sole purpose of determining
prescription periods.

- Article 28.10 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD and in the
Article 73 of the LOPDGDD in section m), for the sole purpose of determining
set the statute of limitations.

- Article 35 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD and in the
article 73 of the LOPDGDD in section t), for the sole purpose of determining
prescription periods.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the SECRETARY OF STATE OF
DIGITALIZATION AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

212/212

in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with article 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
director of the AEPD within a month from the day following the notification
cation of this resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act,
in accordance with the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm resolution may be suspended in administrative proceedings if the interest
sado expresses its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the AEPD, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the Agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in article 16.4 of the LPACAP. You must also transfer to the
Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing of the contentious appeal
so-administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the notification
cation of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the AEPD

938-270122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

