


Press Release 12/2023


  IFK calls for modern federal press law
On June 14, 2023, the 44th Conference of the Freedom of Information Officers in Germany (IFK) took place in Berlin, chaired by the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI). The central resolution was the demand for a federal press law.



Source: ©photokozyr - stock.adobe.com

BfDI Professor Ulrich Kelber said: “In our democracy, the press has an indispensable social control function. However, it can only do justice to this if journalists also receive information. For the last ten years, they have been limited to a tight minimum standard in relation to federal authorities, which does not do justice to their role. We are therefore calling for a federal press law that also takes into account the modern media landscape.”
Unlike the states, the federal government does not have a press law. Instead, the right to information under press law vis-à-vis federal authorities results directly from the right to freedom of the press under the Basic Law. In its judgment of February 20, 2013, the Federal Administrative Court emphasized that it is up to the federal legislature to regulate access to information that goes beyond this. A concrete draft law for a federal press law is still pending, despite a corresponding project in the coalition agreement.
In addition to the resolution on the Federal Press Act, the 44th IFK also finds out about the “Umwelt.info” project. The federal government has set itself the goal of making publicly available environmental information from municipalities, states and the federal government easy to find on the environment.info portal.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          Pursue

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











