 
 
 
 
 
Our ref.: 11.17.001.009.100 
 

8 February 2024 

Decision 

 

Failure to Fully Comply to an Erasure Request  

by Aylo Social LTD 

 

is 

in  Cyprus.  Moreover, 

 
A  complaint  was  lodged  with  the  Baden-Wurttemberg  SA  against  MG  Social 
LTD,  recently  rebranded  as  Aylo  Social  LTD  (the  controller),  whose  main 
establishment 
the  complaint  was  subsequently 
transmitted  to  the  Office  of  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection 
(Cyprus  SA)  on  2/3/2021,  in  line  with  Article  56  of  the  General  Data  Protection 
Regulation (GDPR). 
 
2.  On  the  basis  of  the  above,  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection 
(the Commissioner) is acting as the lead authority in this matter. In the course of 
the  investigation,  other  EU  Data  Protection  Authorities  were  identified  as  being 
concerned by this case. 
 
3.  The  complaint  was  filed  against  the  website  mydirtyhobby.de  that  provides 
pornographic content to its users, and is managed by the controller. 
 
Description of the case 
 
4.1. The complainant had requested the erasure of his account and relevant data 
on  2  separate  emails  sent  on  25  June  and  6  July  2020 
to 
support@mydirtyhobby.com. Up until the day of his complaint, he claims that he 
never received a reply regarding his erasure request. He also confirmed that his 
account was still active and that he was still receiving promotional emails. 
 
4.2. The Cyprus SA contacted the Controller on 23 August 2021, and requested 
their  views  on  the  matters  raised  by  the  complainant.  In  their  response,  they 
mentioned that the relevant staff member responded to the complainant in both 
instances,  providing  him  with  the  necessary  information  to  correctly  initiate  and 
complete the relevant procedure.  
 
4.3. As it was determined from the communication provided by the controller, the 
support  staff  responded  with  the  available  options  regarding  deactivation  of  the 
complainant’s  account  or  deletion  of  the  same,  providing  further  information  on 
what  each  option  entails.  Additionally,  a  link  was  provided  at  the  end  of  the 
message to initiate the deletion procedure. The complainant took no relevant or 
further action regarding the instructions provided. 
 

4.4.  Furthermore,  it  was  noted  that  the  link  provided  in  the  message  as  above, 
leads  to  an  online  platform  (Managemydata.eu),  where  the  data  subject  is 
requested to provide an email address for verification. 
 
4.5. According to the information the controller provided, when a valid request is 
received,  a  procedure  is  initiated  via  ManageMyData,  which  enables  the 
verification  the  identity  of  the  requester  as  the  correct  data  subject,  in  order  to 
avoid unauthorized disclosure or deletion. 
 
5.1.  On  13  June  2023,  the  Cyprus  SA  contacted  the  controller  and  requested 
additional  clarification  and  documentation  regarding  the  above.  Specifically,  the 
controller was asked to clarify, inter alia: 

i.  Which  are  the  reasonable  doubts  that  justify  the  verification  of  the  data 

subject identity following Art. 12(6) GDPR,  

ii.  whether the complainant’s erasure request had been fulfilled,  
iii. 

if  the  complainant  was  informed  that  no  action  would  be  made  on  the 
erasure  request  within  one  month  of  receipt  of  the  request  (Art.  12(4) 
GDPR) and 
information regarding the platform ManageMyData.eu such as 

iv. 

a.  Which  entity 

is 

responsible 

for 

the  development  and/or 

management of the platform. 

b.  Where is the platform hosted and where are the relevant personal 

data stored. 

c.  How are visitors to the platform informed of the processing of their 

data as per Article 13 GDPR. 

 
5.2. In their reply on 22 June 2023, the controller stated, inter alia, the following: 
 
5.2.1. The step regarding the verification of the data subject email, was added in 
the process of data subject right handling, to avoid any malicious attempts taking 
into consideration the unique nature of the industry. 
 
5.2.2.  The  complainant’s  erasure  request  was  not  fulfilled  since  he  did  not 
proceed  with  the  verification  of  his  email.  In  any  case,  they  have  manually 
initiated the procedure, to which the complainant must now respond by verifying 
himself as the account holder (no email verification will be required). 
 
5.2.3. On whether they informed the data subject about the fact that they would 
not act on the request, the controller stated that: 
 
“We  have  responded  in  time,  but  the  matter  was  pending  verification  from  the 
data subject. Additionally, we would also kindly like to remind you that, per ICO 
guidance, the time frame to respond starts upon receiving verification/ID or other 
information  that  establishes  the  identity  of  the  requester/data  subject  or  a  third 
party  that  represents  the  same  and  authorized  to  act  on  their  behalf.  We 
acknowledged  that  the  request  was  received,  and  we  informed  the  user  about 
the required process.” 
 
 

 

2 

5.2.4. Regarding the use of the  ManageMyData platform, the controller clarified 
that: 
i. 

it  is  not  a  third-party  platform/service;  it  has  been  developed  and  is 
controlled by an internal entity within the group. 
it  is  solely  under  the  MindGeek  group  of  companies,  serving  several 
products simultaneously. It has been set up as an internal platform to deal 
with GDPR-related requests. 
The service is hosted on Azure Cloud Environment in North Europe, and 
the data is stored in the same. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv.  Because  this  platform  can  be  used  by  a  variety  of  products/sites  of  the 
same  group  of  companies,  the  privacy  policy  of  the  website  a  visitor 
arrives at ManageMyData from, is the one that is in effect.  

 

Preliminary Views of the Commissioner 
 
6.  On  17  November  2023,  I  issued  a  Preliminary  Decision  regarding  the 
controller’s failure to notify the complainant of the erasure of his data. In the said 
Preliminary Decision, I concluded that: 
 
6.1. In examining whether the verification process is excessive in violation 
of Article 12(2) GDPR: 
 
6.1.1.  It  was  noted  that,  in  the  controller’s  response,  they  did  not  ask  for  more 
information. The response offered an alternative option for deactivation  but also 
provided,  in  the  same  response,  the  link  required  to  complete  the  erasure 
request.  By  following  the  link,  the  data  subject  would  only  need  to  provide  his 
email  address,  which  was  previously  known  to  the  controller,  solely  for 
verification purposes and no other information was requested. 
 
6.1.2. Additionally, in reference to the EDPB guidelines 01/2022 on data subject 
rights  - Right of access (para.  72): “In practice, authentication procedures often 
exist  and  controllers  do  not  need  to  introduce  additional  safeguards  to  prevent 
unauthorised  access  to  services.  In  order  to  enable  individuals  to  access  the 
data  contained  in  their  accounts  (such  as  an  e-mail  account,  an  account  on 
social  networks  or  online  shops),  controllers  are  most  likely  to  request  the 
logging through the login and password of the user to authenticate, which in such 
cases should be sufficient to identify a data subject.” 
 
6.1.3.  Moreover,  I  deemed  that  implementing  an  additional  step  for  verification 
purposes  in  order  to  prevent  malicious  attempts,  is  not  considered  excessive 
especially  since  no  additional  data  is  collected  for  this  purpose.  Additionally, 
implementing such a safeguard ensues that there is a balance between the risks 
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, and the security of the processing 
throughout the process of handling data subject requests in accordance with Art. 
32 GDPR. 
 
6.1.4.  Thus,  using  a  mechanism  to  verify  a  data  subject  identity  through  his 
registered  email  address,  can  be  considered  an  adequate  justification  for  the 

 

3 

facilitation of data subjects’ rights in compliance with Art. 12(2). This view is also 
enhanced taking into consideration the special categories processed pursuant to 
Article  9  GDPR,  where  the  controller  should  take  extra  precautions  to  mitigate 
the risk of mistakenly sharing personal data with the wrong data subject. 
 
6.2.  In  examining  whether  the  controller  informed  the  data  subject  about 
the fact that it would not act on the request in line with Art. 12(4) GDPR: 
 
6.2.1. Despite the controller’s response above in paragraph 5.2.3, I consider that 
the controller should have informed the data subject, within the timeframe set in 
Article 12(4), that they would not act on the erasure request for the reason that 
the  data  subject  did  not  complete  the  verification  process.  Thus,  there  is  a 
breach of Article 12(4) GDPR. 
 
6.2.2.  Additionally,  as  a  consequence  of  the  controller’s  inactivity  to  inform  the 
data subject as above, I consider that there is also a violation of Article 17 GDPR 
since the data subject’s account is still active. 
 
6.3. As regards the use of the ManageMyData platform: 
 
6.3.1.  From an  investigation  of  the  platform,  it  is  clear  that  the  platform  is  used 
only  for  websites  and/or  products  developed  by  the  MindGeek  group  and  its 
subsidiaries.  Despite  this,  although  the  only  visitors  to  the  platform  are  data 
subjects who received the link by the controller, I consider that they should have 
at least provide information on the controller behind the website even if it is the 
same controller. Moreover, this is in breach of Article 13 GDPR.  
 
6.3.2.  Additionally,  I  consider  that  the  process  involving  the  use  of  the  platform 
may  constitute  a  structural  flaw  in  the  controller’s  process  of  granting  data 
subject  rights.  Following  this,  I  recommend  that  the  controller  reviews  this 
process  and  ensure  that  it  is  more  transparent  and  clearer  towards  the  data 
subjects. 
 
 
Controller’s response to the Commissioner’s Preliminary Decision 
 
7.  The  controller  responded  on  14  December  2023  to  my  Preliminary  Decision 
and stated, inter alia, that: 
 
7.1. the complainant never responded, nor proceeded with any relevant actions, 
either on the Support email chain, or on the ManageMyData platform. 
 
7.2.  pursuant  to  the  data  subject’s  complaint  to  the  DPA  and  the  subsequent 
communication  between  the  controller  and  the  Cyprus  SA,  the  deletion 
procedure  was  initiated  by  the  controller  on behalf  of  the  complainant  who  was 
therefore  invited  to  take  the  necessary  steps  to  verify  himself  as  the  account 
holder, something the complainant has not realized up to that day. 
 
7.3.  according  to  EDPB  Guidelines  01/2022  on  data  subject  rights  -  Right  of 
access  (para.157),  “…when  the  controller  needs  to  communicate  with  the  data 

 

4 

subject  due  to  the  uncertainty  regarding  the  identity  of  the  person  making  the 
request there may be a suspension in time until the controller has obtained the 
information needed from the data subject, provided the controller has asked for 
additional information without undue delay.”. 
 
7.4.  having  invited  the  Data  Subject  (in  multiple  instances)  to  proceed  with  his 
request  via  the  dedicated  platform,  and  that  both  manually  and  proactively 
initiated the request on his behalf, the controller has shown clear intent to comply 
with the erasure request. As such, the case was not closed but suspended, until 
the necessary information for the verification of the Data Subject was obtained. 
 
7.5.  in  a  factually  similar  case,  the  Swedish  Data  Protection  Authority  (IMY) 
found  that  the  controller  “had  reasonable  reason  to  doubt  the  identity  of  the 
complainant  and  thus  request  that  the  complainant  submit  additional  such 
evidence,  which  the  complainant  did  not  respond  to.  Against  this  background, 
IMY considers that the company was not obligated to take any further measures 
due to the request”. 
 
7.6.  regarding  information  provided  to  the  data  subjects  who  use  MMD,  it  is 
noted  that  visitors  (in  any  capacity)  of  a  platform  under  the  control  of  the  Aylo 
group  of  companies  do  not  usually  receive  a  link  via  e-mail,  like  in  this  case. 
Instead,  based  on  the  fact  that  all  relevant  links  to  MMD  (such  as  for  GDPR 
deletion  requests)  are  readily  available  in  the  respective  privacy  policy  of  each 
such website, where a user must navigate to in order to begin such process, they 
believe that Art. 13 GDPR requirements are fulfilled. 
 
7.7. mitigating factors to be taken into consideration are, the unintentional nature 
and details of the incident, the fact that only a single data subject is concerned, 
the  timely  responses  and  willingness  to  cooperate  –  both  with  the  data  subject 
itself and with  the Cyprus SA– and that no other, previous and/or similar cases 
have occurred involving Aylo Social Ltd. 
 
Legal framework 
 
8.1. Pursuant to Article 5(1)(c) of the GDPR “Personal Data shall be: 
… 
(c)  adequate,  relevant  and  limited  to  what  is  necessary  in  relation  to  the 
purposes for which they are processed ('data minimisation');  
…” 
 
8.2. Pursuant to Article 12 of the GDPR: 
 
“… 
2.   The controller shall facilitate the exercise of data subject rights under Articles 
15 to 22. In the cases referred to in Article 11(2), the controller shall not refuse to 
act on the request of the data subject for exercising his or her rights under 
Articles 15 to 22, unless the controller demonstrates that it is not in a position to 
identify the data subject. 
… 

 

5 

4.   If the controller does not take action on the request of the data subject, the 
controller shall inform the data subject without delay and at the latest within one 
month of receipt of the request of the reasons for not taking action and on the 
possibility of lodging a complaint with a supervisory authority and seeking a 
judicial remedy. 
…” 
 
8.3. Pursuant to Article 13 of the GDPR: 
 
“1.   Where personal data relating to a data subject are collected from the data 
subject, the controller shall, at the time when personal data are obtained, provide 
the data subject with all of the following information: 
 

(a) the identity and the contact details of the controller and, where applicable, 

of the controller's representative; 

 

 

 

 

 

(b) the contact details of the data protection officer, where applicable; 

(c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended 

as well as the legal basis for the processing; 

(d) where the processing is based on point (f) of Article 6(1), the legitimate 

interests pursued by the controller or by a third party; 

(e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any; 

(f)  where applicable, the fact that the controller intends to transfer personal 
data to a third country or international organisation and the existence or 
absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or in the case of 
transfers referred to in Article 46 or 47, or the second subparagraph of 
Article 49(1), reference to the appropriate or suitable safeguards and the 
means by which to obtain a copy of them or where they have been made 
available. 

 
2.   In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall, 
at the time when personal data are obtained, provide the data subject with the 
following further information necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing: 
 

(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not 

possible, the criteria used to determine that period; 

 

 

 

(b) the existence of the right to request from the controller access to and 

rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing 
concerning the data subject or to object to processing as well as the right 
to data portability; 

(c) where the processing is based on point (a) of Article 6(1) or point (a) of 
Article 9(2), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, 
without affecting the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its 
withdrawal; 

6 

 

 

 

(d) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; 

(e) whether the provision of personal data is a statutory or contractual 

requirement, or a requirement necessary to enter into a contract, as well 
as whether the data subject is obliged to provide the personal data and of 
the possible consequences of failure to provide such data; 

(f)  the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred 

to in Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful 
information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the 
envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject. 

 
3.   Where the controller intends to further process the personal data for a 
purpose other than that for which the personal data were collected, the controller 
shall provide the data subject prior to that further processing with information on 
that other purpose and with any relevant further information as referred to in 
paragraph 2. 
 
4.   Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply where and insofar as the data subject 
already has the information.” 
 
8.4. Pursuant to Article 17 of the GDPR: 
 
“1.   The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller the erasure 
of personal data concerning him or her without undue delay and the controller 
shall have the obligation to erase personal data without undue delay where one 
of the following grounds applies: 
 

(a) the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for 

which they were collected or otherwise processed; 

 

 

 

 

 

(b) the data subject withdraws consent on which the processing is based 

according to point (a) of Article 6(1), or point (a) of Article 9(2), and where 
there is no other legal ground for the processing; 

(c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and 

there are no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or the data 
subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(2); 

(d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed; 

(e) the personal data have to be erased for compliance with a legal obligation 

in Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject; 

(f)  the personal data have been collected in relation to the offer of 

information society services referred to in Article 8(1). 
 

…” 
 

 

7 

in 

to 

this  paragraph,  depending  on 

8.5. Pursuant to Article 58(2) GDPR, “each supervisory authority shall have all of 
the following corrective powers: 
…(b)to  issue  reprimands  to  a  controller  or  a  processor  where  processing 
operations have infringed provisions of this Regulation; 
…(d)  to  order  the  controller  or  processor  to  bring  processing  operations  into 
compliance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Regulation,  where  appropriate,  in  a 
specified manner and within a specified period; 
…(i)  to  impose  an  administrative  fine  pursuant  to  Article  83,  in  addition  to,  or 
instead  of  measures  referred 
the 
circumstances of each individual case;” 
 
Final Views of the Commissioner 
 
9.  In  addition  to  my  assessments  mentioned  in  my  Preliminary  Decision,  the 
following are noted: 
 
9.1.  Although  the  complainant  never  responded  to  the  controller’s  emails,  nor 
proceeded with the relevant instructions, the controller should have informed the 
data  subject  that  they  would  not  act  on  the  erasure  request  in  line  with  Article 
12(4). 
 
9.2.  The  controller  initiated  the  deletion  procedure  again  by  sending  the  same 
instructions via email to the complainant (see para. 7.2. above), The fact that the 
complainant did not proceed with the same procedure, proves that the use of the 
current structure of granting data subject rights needs to be reviewed and refined 
to  cover  all  possible  scenarios.  Additionally,  considering  that  the  complainant’s 
email  is  in  fact  verified,  his  request  should  have  been  satisfied  by  now  without 
requiring any other action. 
 
9.3.  The  case  mentioned  by  the  controller  in  paragraph  7.5  involved  a  request 
that  came  from  an  e-mail  address  other  than  the  one  linked  to  the  relevant 
account,  therefore  justifying  the  controller’s  actions  on  requesting  proof  of 
identity. In the present case, however, the complainant sent the request through 
the same email that was linked to his account. Thus, no further identification was 
needed or justified. 
 
9.4.  As  regards  the  use  of  the  ManageMyData  platform  and  the  Article  13 
requirements, it is be noted that MMD is accessed in 2 ways. Most of the times, 
relevant  links  to  MMD  are  readily  available  in  the  respective  privacy  policy  of 
each  such  website,  where  a  user  must  navigate  to  in  order  to  begin  such 
process.  The  second  method  is  via  e-mail  such  as  in  the  present  case.  In  any 
case  though,  all  visitors  should  be  presented  upon  arrival  with  information 
regarding the owner/controller of the platform to comply with Article 13. 
 
 
Decision 
 

 

8 

10. Having regard to all the above information, and based on the powers vested 
in  me  by  Articles  58  and  83  of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  and  article  24(b)  of 
National  Law  125(I)/2018,  I  conclude  that  there  is  an  infringement  of  Articles 
12(4), 13 and 17 GDPR on behalf of Aylo Social LTD for the reasons mentioned 
above. 
 
11.  Moreover,  following  an  infringement  of  Article  12(4),  13  and  17  GDPR,  as 
explained  above,  under  the  provisions  of  Article  83  of  the  GDPR,  the  following 
mitigating (1-3) and aggravating (4-6) factors are taken into account: 
 
1. That there is no previous violation by the controller of the GDPR. 
2. The controller’s willingness to cooperate with the Cyprus SA and to improve 
the process of handling data subject requests. 
3. A single data subject is concerned by the case 
4. The complainant’s erasure request is still unsatisfied 
5. The complainant was not explicitly informed that his request was not satisfied. 
6. The lack of appropriate procedures and measures for handling data subject 
rights at the time of the request. 
 
 
12.1. In view of the above, I have decided to issue to Aylo Social LTD: 
 

a.  a reprimand for the infringement  of Article 12(4), and 13 on the basis of 

Article 58 (2)(b) GDPR and  

b.  an  administrative  fine  of  €1,500  (one  thousand  five  hundred  euro) 
pursuant  to  Article  83  for  the  infringement  of  Article  17  on  the  basis  of 
Article 58 (2)(i) GDPR.  

 
12.2. In addition to the above I have decided to order Aylo Social LTD to: 

c.  comply  with  the  data  subject's  erasure  request  without  any  delay  on  the 

basis of Article 58 (2)(c) GDPR and 

d.  bring  processing  operations  into  compliance  on  the  basis  of  Article  58 

(2)(d) GDPR, specifically: 

i.  Provide  adequate 

information  regarding 

the  controller  on 

the 

ManageMyData platform in line with Article 13 GDPR and 

ii.  Review  the  procedure  for  handling  data  subjects  request  and  inform 

the Cyprus SA of relevant action within 2 months. 

 
 
Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou 
Commissioner 
For Personal Data Protection 
Cyprus 

 

9 

