Annual Report 20213Annual Report 2021Glossary41.Foreword52.Executive Summary113.Mission, Vision and Values at the DPC154.Regulatory Strategy175.Roles and Responsibilities196.Contacts, Queries and Complaints227.Breaches498.Inquiries579.Significant	Sanctions	and	Corrective	Measures6710.Litigation7811.Supervision8612.Children’s	Data	Protection	Rights9413.Data	Protection	Officers9714.International Activities9915.Communications10216.Corporate104AppendicesAppendix 1: Report on Protected Disclosures received by the Data Protection Commission in 2021 108Appendix 2: Report on Energy Usage at the Data Protection Commission 110Appendix 3: Barniville Judgment: Facebook Ireland Limited v. Data Protection Commission and Maximilian Schrems 112Appendix 4: Audits of Political Parties 117Appendix 5: Financial Statement for the year 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 and the DPC’s Statement of Internal Controls 1194GlossaryCSA Concerned Supervisory AuthorityDPA Data Protection AuthorityDPC Data Protection CommissionDPO	Data	Protection	OfficerEDPB European Data Protection BoardGDPR General Data Protection RegulationIMI Internal Market Information SystemLED Law Enforcement DirectiveLSA Lead Supervisory AuthorityOSS One-Stop-Shop1 5Foreword 1 IntroductionFor	the	DPC,	2021	was	characterised	by	significant	momentum gain. Leveraging our experiences of the	GDPR’s	first	three	full	years	of	implementation,	2021 saw the DPC resolving thousands of complaints; processing thousands more data breach	notifications;	imposing	fines	and	corrective	measures on foot of detailed decisions; auditing the gamut of Irish political parties; settling its enforcement action in relation to certain processing elements of the Public Services Card on terms protective of the data rights of citizens generally; assessing multiple Binding Corporate Rules applications; contributing heavily at several hundred meetings of the European Data Protection Board; progressing scores of large-scale investigations; publishing comprehensive final	guidance	on	protecting	children’s	data;	guiding and overseeing organisations and sectors in the practical application of the GDPR on an ongoing basis, and much more. What gets measured gets doneWhilst the volume of work being completed by the	office	is	ever-intensifying,	what	has	remained	elusive in 2021 is any agreed standard by which to measure the impacts and success or otherwise of a regulatory intervention in the form of GDPR that applies to literally everything. If the collective goal of all of us is to ensure better protection of people from misuses of their personal data and, indeed, to ensure they are not dis-advantaged by “over-implementation” of GDPR rules, the types of quantitative and qualitative metrics that need to be assessed must be carefully laid out. Further, enforcement priorities must be set and the impact of	different	enforcement	measures	and	sanctions	must be tracked and analysed over time for impact and value-for-money. Whilst open in our acknowledgment that, in some respects at least, we need to do more, and better, a shared understanding of what measures we are tracking against in this combined individual rights-based/systemic supervision area of regulation would	benefit	all.	Annual Report 20216Perhaps more importantly, and emphasising that we take no issue with criticism motivated by a desire to improve the position of data subjects (and hold recalcitrant controllers, or indeed this office,	to	meaningful	account),	in	the	absence	of an agreed set of measures to determine achievements	or	deficiencies,	the	standing	of	the	GDPR’s enforcement regime in overall terms is at risk of damage. This is particularly so when certain types	of	allegations	levelled	against	this	office	serve	only to obscure the true nature and extent of the challenges presented by the particular framework by which the EU member states are bound to legislate for the enforcement of data protection within the EU as a whole. Several important considerations are engaged here. Firstly,	as	flagged	in	my	foreword	to	last	year’s	annual report, the data protection space is one in which, as levels of consciousness of data protection as a concept have grown exponentially, a tendency has emerged in which a myriad of every-day exchanges, a large proportion of which do not engage any issue of data protection at all, are nonetheless presented on the basis that the application of data protection rules are central to their resolution. Secondly, some commentators have expressed resistance to any kind of suggestion that the DPC would identify, in advance, the regulatory priorities it	intends	to	bring	to	bear	on	its	work	over	a	defined	period or that, in so doing, it would engage with the idea that, when assessing how to address two or more scenarios in which data protection concerns may be said to arise, the DPC might elect, on objective grounds, to prioritise its response to one over	the	other.	Whilst	this	is	undoubtedly	difficult	and sensitive territory, not least given the nature of the rights conferred on data subjects, not just by the GDPR but also by the Charter, it is nonetheless the case that, if it is to maximise the impact of its interventions and deliver meaningful outcomes to the broadest range of individuals, the DPC must look to deploy its resources in a targeted way. Thirdly, we operate in an environment in which, as things stand, there is no agreed standard by which to	measure	the	impact	and	success	(or	otherwise)	of our regulatory interventions. In that sort of vacuum, a narrative has emerged in which the number of cases, and the quantity and	size	of	the	administrative	fines	levied,	are	treated as the sole measure of success, informed by assumptions1	as	to	the	effectiveness	of	financial	penalties, in particular, as drivers of real changes in	behaviour,	capable	of	delivering	identifiable	and	meaningful improvements for data subjects. In that regard,	a	recent	(2022)	survey2 citing Luxembourg and	Ireland	as	top	of	a	league	table	for	fines	in	the	EU	tells	us	little	about	how	effective	regulation	under the GDPR has been. (To be fair, the survey’s authors	do	not	suggest	otherwise).	Likewise,	figures	representing the number of cross-border cases provide little by way of meaningful insight. The decisions delivered in such cases vary widely both in the complexity of the subject matter and in the investigative procedures applied. For example a decision of the DPC, running to several hundred pages and touching on the complex operating processes of large multinational organisations, impacting on millions of people, is measured side by side with a two-line treatment of a comparatively simple	issue	that	has	minimal	ramifications	for	data	subjects in general. This is clearly not an informative means	of	measuring	the	success	(or	otherwise)	of	the GDPR. Against the backdrop of these sorts of considerations, the DPC put its own regulatory strategy for the next 5 years out to public consultation, engaging with a range of stakeholders as we sought to develop our approach to the identification	of	the	priorities	we	would	bring	to	bear in our work, and setting out the reasons underpinning our strategic choices. As set out in more detail below, the consultation process was	completed	in	2021,	and	a	finalised	strategy	document was adopted.3 Separately, the DPC is continuing to work alongside other EU DPAs to agree on a set of metrics to be used to measure regulatory outputs across the EU on a like-for-like basis, all with a view to addressing questions	relating	to	the	effectiveness	of	our	interventions. On that score, both lawmakers and regulatory	authorities	(the	DPC	included)	must	be	prepared to learn honestly from their legislative and	regulatory	efforts	to	date.1 There is a body of evidence that indicates that such assumptions are not well founded.  See for example https://academic.oup.com/jeclap/article/12/4/301/59093882	https://www.dlapiper.com/en/us/insights/publications/2022/1/dla-piper-gdpr-fines-and-data-breach-survey-2022/3 https://dataprotection.ie/en/news-media/latest-news/dpc-publishes-regulatory-strategy-2022-20277Annual Report 2021Regulation of large-scale platforms generallyMuch of the public commentary around the effectiveness	(or	not)	of	data	protection	regulation	across the EU is set against concerns about the level of control exercised by large-scale social media platforms. One recent feature of such discussions is the extent to which it is acknowledged that the control enjoyed by the platforms (in contexts extending beyond those with	which	data	protection	is	directly	concerned)	may not be capable of being addressed in an effective	way	within	a	single	regulatory	discipline,	whether that be data protection, competition law or content regulation. Already in the United States, that discussion has moved a step further, with some commentators pointing out (in the context of the debate around the merits of introducing a federal data protection law)	that	there	are	many	ways	in	which	the	activities of platforms can fall between cracks in regimes designed to regulate content, competition and data protection. The same commentators have also raised questions as to whether concepts considered central to the data protection regimes that have developed in Europe (to include the concept of “individual control” as a means to protect individual	users)	can	provide	meaningful	protection for platform users against some or all of the harms associated with particular aspects of the internet.From a European perspective, there is no question but that, even allowing for its imperfections, the GDPR	provides	(and	will	continue	to	provide)	the best-available framework within which the data protection rights of individuals can most effectively	be	vindicated	in	these	parts.	For present purposes, however, a key consideration in these sorts of discussions is this: if	the	effectiveness	of	the	GDPR’s	enforcement	regime as applied by national supervisory authorities is to be measured (and it must be	measured),	then	we	need	to	identify,	with	precision, the particular harms and risks we are looking to reduce and/or eliminate, and it must	be	acknowledged	that,	whilst	the	effective	enforcement of data protection rules against platforms may serve to constrain the platforms’ power in certain respects, it is not the role of the DPC, or of any data protection supervisory authority, to target all manifestations of such power in respect of which concerns have been expressed. It is against this particular backdrop that we need to	find	ways	to	measure	performance	by	data	protection	supervisory	authorities.	As	flagged	above, there are several elements to that. As one step,	the	DPC	has	fixed	upon	–	and	declared	–	its	regulatory priorities for the next 5 years. The work that remains ongoing with our colleagues throughout the EEA to identify a set of metrics by which performance can be assessed in an objective	way	–	across	all	of	the	member	states	 - is another such step. Such metrics must, however,	move	past	both	superficial	totting	exercises	and	assumptions	to	the	effect	that	the	bigger	the	fine,	the	greater	the	change	of	behaviour it will herald.  What is required is a system in which the effectiveness of our interventions  (in whatever form they take) are assessed by asking whether they have delivered (measurable) changes in behaviour on the part of controllers and real-life (and measurable) benefits for data subjects.8DPC 5-Year Regulatory Strategy As noted, 2021 saw the completion of the DPC’s work on its regulatory strategy for the next 5 years, aimed at harnessing three years of reflection	by	the	DPC	and	our	many	stakeholders	on the application of GDPR in practice. One consistent demand from stakeholders was for more and more guidance and direction to allow more certainty about what is required to comply with the law and demonstrate accountability. The DPC as outlined in the Strategy intends to publish more guidance including more regular case studies of issues it has decided and work to support	Data	Protection	Officers	in	their	critical	on-the-ground roles within organisationsTargeted actions aimed at ensuring children and more vulnerable internet users are protected in	personal	data	terms	-	without	shutting	off	their access - is a key strategic goal of the DPC and	is	already	being	given	effect	in	a	draft	decision recently submitted by the DPC to our EU counterparts dealing with aspects of a particular internet platform’s processing of children’s data. Our stated intention to more actively prioritise those complaints, the outcome of which will have the greatest impact, gave rise to a good deal of public commentary with certain commentators appearing to cast it as some sort of decision by the DPC to try to side-step its obligation to handle all individual complaints. The opposite is of	course	the	case,	reflecting	our	desire	to	ensure	that complaints raising issues of substance, the resolution of which will achieve most for data subjects, are prioritised in terms of resources. The	(now	former)	Advocate	General	Bobek	of	the	CJEU highlighted this very issue in opinions issued before he departed his role in the autumn of 2021 where he sounded a note of caution about the risks of turning every exchange between individuals into a “GDPR issue”4. Ultimately, the DPC	must	fulfil	its	role	and	deploy	its	resources	in	such	a	way	as	to	ensure	it	is	giving	effect	to	the	GDPR in practical and meaningful ways that serve to protect individuals’ rights where those rights are	identified	as	being	truly	at	risk.	Large-scale inquiriesThis year’s annual report features accounts of the outcomes delivered in a number of significant	inquires	recently	concluded	by	the	DPC; it also details progress to date in a broad range of other inquiries to which the DPC has committed resources. One case that has attracted particular attention is the decision containing findings	against	WhatsApp	which	gave	rise	to	a	fine	of	€225m	for	a	range	of	compliance	failures	relating to issues of transparency, and which also provided for an order directing remediation of the information provided to the public through WhatsApp’s privacy policy. Whilst the decision is the subject of litigation, WhatsApp has agreed to make	significant	changes	to	its	privacy	policy	in	the meantime (reserving its position in relation to	the	litigation	just	referenced).	Domestically,	a	significant	outcome	was	delivered	in	an	inquiry	involving Limerick City and County Council in which a number of failures in terms of compliance with the GDPR and the Law Enforcement Directive were	identified	in	the	context	of	the	deployment	of CCTV and other surveillance technologies. (Details	of	this	case	can	be	found	on	page	69	of	this	report).	A	settlement	was	also	reached	in December 2021 in relation to an appeal brought by the Department of Social Protection against an enforcement notice issued by the DPC concerning personal data processing in the context of the Public Services Card. Inquiries into other areas of processing connected with the card remain ongoing. Whilst it is a policy matter for Government to fashion schemes to verify the identity of persons accessing public services, the DPC’s position, based on the express terms of the GDPR and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, is that the processing of personal data in the context of any scheme of such scale must be grounded on an appropriate legal basis, must satisfy proportionality requirements, and must allow foreseeability on the part of the public in terms of the purposes for which their data will be processed and the uses to which such data will be put. These sorts of considerations are a recurring theme of the DPC’s regulatory interactions with a whole range of public sector bodies in Ireland. 4	https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX%3a62020CC0245&from=EN9Annual Report 2021In	particular,	it	is	our	experience	that	insufficient	consideration is given by such bodies to the requirement to demonstrate that a given processing operation is grounded on one or more of the legal bases expressly provided for by the GDPR and the LED. Such gaps are especially likely to be found in those cases where special category data is being processed or where data is being processed for law enforcement purposes. In terms of those inquiries that remain ongoing, the DPC’s large-scale inquiry into Facebook’s transfers of personal data to the USA is of note. A stay imposed by the High Court on the DPC advancing its inquiry was lifted in May 2021 when the High Court rejected all of the grounds on which Facebook had sought judicial review of the DPC’s decision to commence this investigation in August 2020. Following the resumption of the inquiry in the summer of 2021, submissions were received from relevant parties, the contents of which are presently under examination by the DPC. Ultimately, the DPC will be required to bring a draft decision to its fellow EU supervisory authorities as part of the cooperation and consistency mechanisms laid down by the GDPR.The One-Stop-ShopThe GDPR’s one-stop-shop has very laudable aims: to ensure a harmonised interpretation of key principles of the GDPR across all EU member-states; to ensure a consistent and level-playing field	across	the	EU	in	terms	of	the	application	of the GDPR’s rules; and to provide a “sole interlocutor” for multinationals operating across the EU with a view to streamlining the regulatory and administrative challenges such entities would	face	if	required	to	engage	with	different	supervisory authorities in each member state in which they have a presence. The one-stop-shop is doing well on the third of these three aims, one consequence of which has	been	to	transfer	a	significant	co-ordination	function from the platforms onto the DPC, as we now engage with our colleagues across Europe on draft decisions and on projects proposed by multi-nationals involving cross-border processing. As	far	as	the	first	and	second	aims	are	concerned,	the concept is doing less well. In part, this is because, under the arrangements legislated for by means of the GDPR, not all multinational activity in fact falls within the scope of the one-stop-shop arrangements. On the contrary, the platforms and other economic operators may choose whether they avail of one-stop-shop, or not,	with	significant	consequences	attaching	to	such choices. Already we have seen decisions that are	difficult	to	reconcile	being	made	about	the	same cross-border processing operations of one particular	platform	but	by	different	EU	supervisory	authorities where neither process engaged the co-decision making procedures central to the operation of the one-stop-shop. That so much cross-border activity can sit outside the one-stop-shop	brings	into	question	the	effectiveness	of	the	coordination	efforts	that	were	intended	to be a feature of the regulation of cross-border processing operations. It may also be said to undermine the idea, central to the GDPR, that a level	playing	field	could	be	created	across	Europe	(and	fragmentation	eliminated),	by	means	of	the	implementation of a single legal framework. In terms of those inquiries that remain ongoing, the DPC’s large-scale inquiry into Facebook’s transfers of personal data to the USA is of note. 10New data regulation regimesAmongst other pending pieces of legislation at an EU level, the NIS2 Directive, the Digital Markets Act, the Digital Services Act, the E-Privacy Regulation,	the	Artificial	intelligence	Act,	and	the	Data Governance Act, demonstrate that the GDPR was never going to resolve all data issues in one single legislative instrument. Equally, the tug-of-war between “privacy” and competition rules triggered by Apple’s ATT initiative, and Google’s plans to phase out third party cookies show that for regulatory action in the “privacy” sphere, there can be an equal and opposite reaction in terms of competition regulation. Critical, as this new suite of interlocking laws comes down the tracks, is the question of coordination at both EU and cross-regulatory levels. Structures are going to be important, particularly given the challenges that have surfaced in the operation of the one-stop-shop structures associated with the GDPR. What is clear, if hardly surprising, is that not everyone is seeing things in the same way. Equally unsurprisingly, there are no obvious or easy answers to so many of the big issues on which political debate still rages: whether and in what ways targeted advertising could and/or should be banned; whether anonymity should be preserved in the online sphere; whether derogations should be allowed from the strict application	of	the	rules	on	the	confidentiality	of communications in order to identify the transmission of child sexual abuse material; and	how	to	secure	global	data	flows	while	still	protecting personal data, and whilst also allowing proportionate access consistent with national security requirements. ConclusionThe DPC looks forward to continued engagement with the EU Commission, its fellow regulators across the EEA, and others, to try to reach a measure of consensus around how we measure the	effectiveness	of	regulation	and	enforcement	in	the context of the GDPR. There are many aspects of	this	data	era	which	the	world	hasn’t	fully	figured	out. Equally, much progress has been made under the GDPR to better protect people’s personal data	through	the	efforts	and	focus	of	all	types	of	data	controllers	and	data	protection	officers	and	through the engagement of the public with their rights. For its part, the DPC commits to progress and to roll out delivery of its 5-year Strategy grounded in the desire to do more for more people. Ar aghaidh linn!Helen Dixon Commissioner for Data Protection2 Supporting IndividualsFrom 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021: The DPC received in excess of 23,930 electronic contacts5, 13,663 phone calls and 1,594 postal contacts; The DPC received 10,888 queries and complaints from individuals in 2021 (an increase of 7%	on	2020	figures)	of	which	8,017	had been concluded to by year end; The DPC received 3,419 complaints last year and concluded 3,564 complaints, including 1,884 complaints received prior to 2021; In total 10,645	cases	-	7,081	queries	and	3,564	complaints - were concluded by the DPC in 2021; Of the 7,499 queries that were sent to the DPC in	2021,	6,255	had	been	dealt	with	by	year-end; Overall the DPC concluded 7,081 queries last year,	including	826	received	prior	to	2021; Just under 52% (1,771) of complaints lodged with the DPC in 2021 were concluded within the same calendar year; and	On	foot	of	a	concerted	effort	to	bring	aged	access request complaints to resolution in 2021, the DPC concluded 170% more access complaints than it received	–	reversing	a	trend that had been in place since the GDPR came into application in 2018.11Annual Report 20215 Electronic communications comprise both emails to the DPC’s info@ account and webforms submitted through the DPC website.23,93013,663 1,594  Electronic contactsPhone callsPostal contactsAnnual Report 20212 Executive Summary 12In 2021, the most frequent GDPR topics for queries and complaints continued to be: Access Requests; Fair-processing; Disclosure; Direct Marketing and Right to be Forgotten (delisting and/or	removal	requests).	Supporting Industry	Total	valid	breach	notifications	received	in	2021 was 6,549.	Breach	notifications	down	2%	on	2020	figures.	 Of the total recorded breach cases, 95% were concluded	in	2021	(6,274	cases).The most frequent cause of breaches reported to the DPC was unauthorised disclosure at 71% of the	overall	total.	This	is	down	from	86%	for	the	previous year.The	DPC	launched	a	revised	Breach	Notification	webform in 2021, increasing the ease and accuracy for stakeholders reporting breaches to the DPC.In	2021,	the	DPC	published	its	finalised	Fundamentals for a Child-Oriented Approach to Data Processing, giving much-needed direction to organisations involved in the processing of children’s data. Also in December 2021, the DPC published its Five-Year Regulatory Strategy for 2022-2027, providing clarity to stakeholders as to the direction of travel for the regulatory priorities of the DPC going forward.The DPC continued its partnership with the Croatian Data Protection Authority, AZOP, and Vrije University in Brussels on an EU-Funded project (The ARC Project) to provide practical supports to SMEs, with a series of workshops now planned for early 2022.RegulatingAs of 31 December 2021, the DPC had 81 Statutory Inquiries on-hand, including 30 Cross-Border Inquiries. In September, the DPC announced a conclusion to a GDPR investigation it conducted into WhatsApp Ireland Ltd. The decision was subject to an Article 65	Dispute	Resolution	Process,	after	which	the DPC imposed a fine of €225 million on WhatsApp, in addition to an order for WhatsApp to bring its processing into compliance.In December 2021 the DPC published its Data Protection Audit of Political Parties in Ireland. The report was compiled following data protection audits conducted in 2021 by the DPC in twenty-six registered political parties in Ireland.In December 2021, the DPC settled legal proceedings with the Department of Social Protection	(D/SP)	on	the	D/SP’s	processing	of	personal data when issuing Public Service Cards.Also in December 2021, the DPC sent an Article 60	Draft	Decision	to	Concerned	Supervisory	Authorities. This Draft Decision concerned Instagram and was ongoing at year-end. The DPC appeared 7 times before Oireachtas Committees and provided input and observations on over 40 pieces of proposed legislation. 6,54981 Valid breach notifications Published  5 Year Regulatory StrategyStatutory Inquiries 13Annual Report 2021In 2021 there were 9 judgments delivered and/or	final	orders	made	in	proceedings	to	which	the	DPC was a party.Through Supervision action, the DPC has brought about the postponement or revision of 7 scheduled big tech projects with implications for the rights and freedoms of individuals.In 2021 the DPC concluded 5 large-scale inquiries; sent forward 4	draft	decisions	to	the	Article	60	co-decision making process; referred 1 case to Article 65	on	foot	of	which	the	DPC	issued	a	finalised	decision; issued a further 9 preliminary drafts of decisions for submissions to regulated entities and	complainants	in	advance	of	finalisation,	and	sought submissions on statements of issues or inquiry reports from relevant parties in a further 17 inquiries. Cases involving significant sanctions or corrective measuresThe DPC imposed fines and corrective measures in the following finalised cases under the GDPR in 2021. Fines and orders were proposed in a range of other cases detailed in the Inquiries	chapter,	but	which	cannot	be	finalised	until a consensus position is reached with other EU authorities:OrganisationsDecision IssuedIrish Credit Bureau DAC 23-Mar-21WhatsApp Ireland Ltd28-Jul-21MOVE Ireland 20-Aug-21The Teaching Council  of Ireland02-Dec-21Limerick City  and County Council09-Dec-21Engaging with Civil SocietyIn 2021, the DPC concluded an extensive consultation on its draft guidance on the rights of children as data subjects.	The	finalised	guidance	document - Fundamentals for a Child-Oriented Approach to Data Processing–	was	published	in	December 2021.In December 2021, the DPC published its Regulatory Strategy for 2022-2027, which will be the roadmap for the DPC through a period of transformative change. The DPC has set out an ambitious	vision	for	what	it	believes	will	be	five	crucial years in the evolution of data protection law, regulation and culture. The	Strategy	–	and	the	work	agenda	that	flows	from	it	–	has	been	based	around	five	interconnected pillars of equal priority. 1. Regulate consistently  and effectively2. Safeguard Individuals and promote data protection awareness3. Prioritise the protection of children and other vulnerable groups4. Bring clarity to stakeholders 5. Support organisations  and drive compliance14Engaging with PeersSince 1 January 2021, the DPC: Responded to over 600	Article	61	Mutual	and	Voluntary Mutual Requests for assistance from other European Regulators;  Attended over 200 EDPB meetings, most of which were conducted virtually due to pandemic-related travel restrictions;  Continued to have representatives on all European	Data	Protection	Board	(EDPB)	subgroups; and Regularly met with senior regulators from the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland, ComReg and the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission to drive regulatory coherence and foster greater understanding of the respective regulatory roles.Mainstreaming Data ProtectionStaff	of	the	DPC	presented	at	over	90 speaking events in 2021. As Covid restrictions came into effect,	the	majority	of	staff	participation	was	conducted online, except where public health guidance permitted.The DPC remains committed to driving awareness of data protection rights and responsibilities, producing 10 substantive pieces of guidance, including	the	very	significant	Fundamentals	for	a Child-Oriented Approach to Data Processing, which was very well received by stakeholders.Other ActivityIn 2021 the DPC:  Concluded 138 electronic direct marketing investigations; Prosecuted two telco companies for persistently contacting customers who had opted out of correspondence;	Implemented	the	first	release	of	the	new	DPC	case management system;	Worked	to	finalise	the	inter-agency	agreement	between the DPC and Irish National Accreditation Board on accreditation of certification schemes under GDPR Articles 42 and 43;  Worked closely with EU colleagues on the first	approvals	of	a	proposed	EU Seal and a member	state	based	certification	scheme,	in accordance with Articles 43 and 43 of the GDPR;  Produced a new ICT strategy for the DPC; and Handled 49 Law Enforcement Directive complaints. 49 Law Enforcement Directive  complaints 138Electronic direct marketing investigations 3 90 90 speaking events in 202115MissionUpholding the consistent application of data protection law through engagement, supervision and enforcement, and driving compliance with data protection legislation.The Data Protection Commission safeguards the data protection rights of individuals and provides clarity for the organisations it regulates by: 3 Mission, Vision and Values at the DPC  educating stakeholders on their rights and responsibilities;  taking a fair and balanced approach to complaint handling;  communicating extensively and transparently with stakeholders; participating actively at European Data Protection Board level to achieve consistency;  cultivating technological foresight, in anticipation of future regulatory developments; sanctioning proportionately and judiciously; and  retaining and amalgamating the expert capacities of its staff to ensure operational effectiveness. 16VisionThe Data Protection Commission is committed to being an independent, internationally	influential	and publicly dependable regulator of EU data protection law; regulating with clear purpose, trusted by the public, respected by our peers and effective	in	our	regulation.	The DPC will play a leadership role in bringing legal clarity to the early years of the General Data Protection Regulation. The DPC will apply a risk-based regulatory approach to its work, so that its resources are always prioritised on the basis of delivering the greatest benefit	to	the	maximum	number of people. The DPC will also be a rewarding and challenging place to work, with a focus on retaining, attracting and allocating the most appropriate people to deliver on its mandate, recognising the value and capacities of its staff	as	its	most	critical	asset.	4 ValuesThe Data Protection Commission is an autonomous regulator, with responsibility for regulating both private and public sector organisations, as well as safeguarding the data protection rights of individuals. In the conduct of these duties, the DPC is committed to act always in a way that is: Fair Expert Consistent Transparent Accountable Forward Looking  Engaged Independent Results-drivenRegulatory Strategy Strategy In December 2021, the DPC published its Regulatory Strategy for 2022-2027, which will be the roadmap for the DPC through a period of transformative change. The DPC has set out an ambitious	vision	for	what	it	believes	will	be	five	crucial years in the evolution of data protection law, regulation and culture. The	Strategy	–	and	the	work	agenda	that	flows	from	it	–	has	been	based	around	five	interconnected pillars of equal priority. 1. Regulate consistently  and effectively2. Safeguard Individuals and promote data protection awareness3. Prioritise the protection of children and other vulnerable groups4. Bring clarity to stakeholders 5. Support organisations  and drive compliance17Annual Report 2021Annual Report 20214 18In developing this Regulatory Strategy for 2022-2027, the DPC has been careful to give conscientious thought to the needs and insights of its stakeholders, the legislation under which it must regulate, the context in which it currently operates and the various future states for which it must prepare. In addition to iterative rounds of broad public consultation, the DPC has also taken account of the academic theories that are emerging	in	respect	of	effective	regulation	and	behavioural economics. This research has then been balanced against the recognition that the DPC’s	resources	are	finite	and	must	be	put	where	they can do the most good, which means that discerning regulatory choices must be made.The breadth of the DPC’s regulatory remit cuts across all areas of personal and public life; both at national and international level. In order to develop a Regulatory Strategy that will provide effective	direction	for	such	a	vast	operational	remit, the DPC has been careful to take account of the wider context in which it regulates, the needs of its diverse stakeholders and the evolving nature of the fast-paced and non-traditional sectors it regulates. This Regulatory Strategy is being implemented in the very early years of radically reformed data protection	legislation	–	in	the	form	of	the	GDPR	and	ancillary	Law	Enforcement	Directive	–	along	with all the attendant interpretative challenges that such immense regulatory change usually produces. These challenges, against a backdrop of hugely increased public consciousness of data protection, have given rise to ambiguities of interpretation and application of the law that the	DPC	–	along	with	its	peer	data	protection	authorities	–	must	work	to	clarify.	No action or approach outlined in this Regulatory Strategy	–	from	the	handling	of	complaints	to	the	emphasis	on	strategic	engagement	–	has	arisen	from a desire to do ‘less’ for stakeholders. The opposite is the case, and all strategic goals have been proposed as a means of doing more, for more. The Strategy is arranged according to fundamental goals, underpinned by the DPC’s mission, vision and values, which collectively contribute to the delivery of its strategic priorities. The DPC recognises that it cannot achieve its ambitions	alone	–	new	partnerships	and	new	ways of engaging will be necessary as we look towards a future of closer convergence. The work to underpin this regulatory convergence is already underway, with regular meetings in 2021 between the senior regulators from DPC, the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland, ComReg and the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission to drive regulatory coherence and foster greater understanding of the respective regulatory roles. In order to prepare this Regulatory Strategy, the DPC has engaged in a period of iterative consultation with a broad range of stakeholders, both internal and external, gathering insights and experiences of how the application of the General	Data	Protection	Regulation	(GDPR)	has	impacted the lives of individuals and organisations operating across a wide range of sectors. In late June	2021,	the	DPC	closed	its	final	open	call	for	submissions to its regulatory consultation on the Draft Strategy itself. The breadth of the DPC’s stakeholder	body	was	reflected	in	the	submissions	received. It is clear from the depth of thought given to these submissions that the GDPR is a matter of vital interest for many people. As is the case with any far-reaching legislation, the various interpretations from stakeholders of how best to apply the GDPR are not always in sympathy with each other. Nonetheless, the DPC is tasked with extracting the commonalities from these disparate points of view, and identifying an agenda of regulatory priorities which will drive compliance and promote better data protection outcomes for EU individuals. That overarching objective -	to	do	more,	for	more	–	has	underpinned	the	strategic choices made in this Strategy, as the DPC navigates a regulatory future replete with competing priorities. Roles and Responsibilities Functions of the DPCThe	Data	Protection	Commission	(DPC)	is the national independent authority in Ireland responsible for upholding the fundamental right of EU persons to have their personal data protected. Accordingly, the DPC is the Irish supervisory authority tasked with monitoring the application of the General	Data	Protection	Regulation	(GDPR)	(Regulation	(EU)	2016/679).The core functions of the DPC, under the GDPR and the Data	Protection	Act	2018	—	which	gives	further	effect	to the GDPR in Ireland — include: driving improved compliance with data protection legislation by controllers and processors; handling complaints from individuals in relation to potential infringements of their data protection rights; conducting inquiries and investigations into potential infringements of data protection legislation; promoting awareness among organisations and the public of the risks, rules, safeguards and rights incumbent in the processing of personal data; and co-operating with data protection authorities in other EU member states on issues, involving cross-border processing.19Annual Report 2021Annual Report 2021Annual Report 2021Annual Report 202120The DPC also acts as supervisory authority for personal-data processing under several additional legal frameworks. These include the Law Enforcement Directive	(Directive	2016/680,	as	transposed in Ireland under the Data Protection Act 2018)	which	applies	to	the	processing	of	personal data by bodies with law-enforcement functions in the context of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences	or	execution	of	criminal	penalties.	The DPC also performs certain supervisory and enforcement functions in relation to the processing of personal data in the context of electronic communications under the e-Privacy Regulations	(S.I.	No.	336	of	2011).The SMC comprises:In addition to its functions under the GPDR, the DPC continues to perform its regulatory functions under the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003, in respect of complaints and investigations that relate to the period before 25 May 2018, as well as in relation to certain limited other categories of processing, irrespective of whether that processing occurred before or after 25 May 2018.In	addition	to	specific	data	protection	legislation,	there are in the region of 20 more pieces of legislation, spanning a variety of sectoral areas, concerning the processing of personal data, where the DPC must perform a particular supervisory function assigned to it under that legislation. Helen DixonCommissioner for  Data ProtectionGraham Doyle Deputy Commissioner - Head of Corporate Affairs, Media and CommunicationsColum Walsh Deputy Commissioner - Head of Regulatory ActivityTony Delaney Deputy Commissioner - Head of Regulatory ActivityAnna Morgan Deputy Commissioner  - Head of LegalJohn O’Dwyer Deputy Commissioner - Head of Regulatory ActivityDale Sunderland Deputy Commissioner - Head of Regulatory ActivityUltan O’Carroll Deputy Commissioner - Head of Technology, Operational and Performance21Annual Report 2021DPC’s Senior TeamThe	DPC’s	Senior	Management	Committee	(SMC)	comprises the Commissioner for Data Protection and the seven Deputy Commissioners. The Commissioner and members of the SMC oversee the proper management and governance of the organisation, in line with the principles set out in the Corporate Governance Standard for the Civil Service	(2015).	The	SMC	has	a	formal	schedule	of matters for consideration and decision, as appropriate,	to	ensure	effective	oversight	and	control of the organisation.Funding and Administration – Vote 44 The DPC is funded entirely by the Exchequer.  The Commissioner for Data Protection is the Accounting	Officer	for	the	Commission’s	Vote,	Vote	44.	As	a	Vote	body,	the	Accounting	Officer	must prepare the Appropriation Account for the DPC’s Vote for submission to the Comptroller and Auditor General. As required, this includes the	Accounting	Officer’s	statement	on	the	DPC’s	systems	of	internal	financial	control.	During	2021,	the	Office	of	the	Comptroller	and	Auditor	General	completed an audit of the DPC Appropriation Accounts for 2020. The DPC is pleased to confirm	that	no	matters	gave	rise	to	any	adverse	comments being included in the report. The 2021 gross estimate provision for Vote 44 — Data	Protection	Commission	was	€19.128m	(2020:	€16.916m)	of	which	€12.764m	(2020:	€10.552m)	was allocated for pay-related expenditure, and €6.364m	(2020:	€6.364m)	of	which	was	allocated	to non-pay expenditure. The funding for 2021 represented	an	increase	of	€2.2m	on	the	2020	allocation. The DPC is currently preparing the Appropriation Account for 2021 and this statement will be published on the DPC’s website following	the	conduct	of	an	audit	by	the	Office	of	the Comptroller and Auditor General.22Annual Report 2021Contacts, Queries and Complaints ContactsStakeholders contact the DPC in a variety of ways, including the DPC Helpdesk phone lines, online webforms,	email	and	post.	In	2021	DPC	staff	worked remotely, in keeping with the public health advice from Government. Despite this, full phone line services were maintained and arrangements put in place to collect and redirect any post arriving	to	the	DPC	offices	in	a	timely	manner.	In 2021 the DPC received 23,930 electronic contacts6, 13,663 phone calls and 1,594 postal contacts. Despite the challenges that full remote-working posed, DPC productivity in frontline services was maintained throughout the year. No negative effect	on	response	times	or	service	levels	was	incurred, and productivity was consistent with pre-Covid rates. The DPC received 10,888 queries and complaints from individuals in 2021 (an increase of	7%	on	2020	figures)	of	which	8,017	had	been	concluded to by year-end. In total 10,645 cases -	7,081	queries	and	3,564	complaints	-	were concluded by the DPC in 2021.Of the 7,499 queries that were sent to the DPC in	2021,	6,255	had	been	dealt	with	by	year-end.	Overall the DPC concluded 7,081 queries last year,	including	826	received	prior	to	2021.The DPC received 3,419 complaints last year and concluded 3,564 complaints, including 1,884 complaints received prior to 2021. Just under 52% (1,771)	of	complaints	lodged	with	the	DPC	in	2021	were concluded within the same calendar year.6	Electronic	communications	comprise	both	emails	to	the	DPC’s	info@	account	and	webforms	submitted	through	the	DPC	website.6 23Annual Report 2021ComplaintsThe DPC processes complaints under two main legal frameworks: Complaints received from 25 May 2018 onwards (and which relate to matters which occurred	on	or	after	25	May	2018)	are	dealt	with under the GDPR, Law Enforcement Directive, and the Data Protection Act 2018; and  Complaints and infringements occurring before 25 May 2018 are dealt with under the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003, even where	they	are	notified	to	the	DPC	on	or	after	25 May 2018.To	constitute	a	complaint	–	and	therefore	trigger	the DPC’s statutory complaint-handling obligations –	the	matter	must	fall	under	one	of	the	following	headings: A complaint from an individual relating to the processing of their own personal data;  A legally authorised person or entity complaining on behalf of an individual (e.g. a solicitor on behalf of a client or a parent/ guardian	on	behalf	of	their	child);	or Advocacy groups which meet the requirements to act on behalf of one or more individuals under the GDPR, LED and the Data Protection Act 2018. Between 1 January 2021  and 31 December 2021:  The DPC received 3,389 complaints from individuals under the GDPR and 30 complaints under the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003. 	Overall,	the	DPC	concluded	3,665	complaints,	including 1,884 complaints received prior to 2021.  Almost 52% of complaints lodged with the DPC in 2021 were concluded within the same calendar year. Complaints Received under the GDPR - Top 5 Issues in 2021No% of total Access Request1,23242%  Fair Processing56019%Disclosure29110%Right to erasure2639%Direct Marketing1284%Complaints Received under the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003 – Top Five Issues in 2021No% of total Access Request 1137%Fair Processing1137%Disclosure620%Security13%Fair Obtaining13%24Complaint HandlingWhere possible, the DPC endeavours to resolve individual	complaints	amicably	–	as	provided	for	in	Section	109(2)	of	the	Data	Protection	Act	2018.	The	option to have their issue dealt with by amicable means	is	afforded	to	individuals	throughout	the	lifetime of their complaint, regardless of how far the issue may have progressed through escalated channels. Case studies illustrating these escalated channels in operation can be found at the end of this chapter.Where amicable and early resolution is not possible, the DPC escalates issues according to complaint category:“Fast-Track” Amicable ResolutionAmicable Resolution includes facilitating amicable resolution between an individual and a data controller, executing certain complaint handling powers	to	resolve	complaints	both	efficiently	and	appropriately and transferring certain cases to other relevant complaint handling units where there is a need for more in-depth/complex activities to be carried out. In certain cases, where	the	DPC	identifies	the	possibility	of	swift	resolution, it proceeds down a “fast-track” basis. Of	the	3,564	complaints	concluded	by	the	DPC	in	2021, 463 of those complaints were concluded by fast-track amicable means. In excess of 3,100 further complaints were also resolved but required a higher number of iterative contacts between the parties to achieve. The	Data	Protection	Acts	2018,	Section	109(2)	states	that	the	Commission	(DPC),	where	it	considers that there is a reasonable likelihood of the parties concerned reaching, within a reasonable time, an amicable resolution of the subject matter of the complaint, may take such steps as it considers appropriate to arrange or facilitate such an amicable resolution. The most common complaints concluded via amicable resolution relate to data controllers not responding to access requests, or failure to adequately meet their GDPR obligations in respect of customers. Access Rights ComplaintsArticle 15 of the GDPR provides that an individual may	obtain	from	a	data	controller	confirmation	of whether or not personal data concerning them are being processed and, where that is the case, access to a copy of their information. This is an important right and one which gives rise to the largest number of complaints to the DPC annually.The right of access is one of the fundamental rights conferred on individuals by the GDPR. That said, an individual’s right of access is not absolute and may be subject to certain restrictions, including but not limited to those set out at Sections	60	of	the	Data	Protection	Act	2018By the end of 2021, the DPC had received 331 new access complaints and concluded 562. This represents a complete inversion of the access complaints received : complaints concluded ratio. Since the GDPR came into application in 2018, the DPC has, year-on-year, received more cases per annum than it concluded. The DPC successfully reversed this trend in 2021 and concluded 170% more access cases than it received. In addition, the DPC is still investigating access complaints under the old Data Protection Acts, 1988 and 2003, of which 8 were concluded in 2021. Access request related complaints remain the most frequent complaints received by the DPC.Often the individual will have been in communication with the data controller but either did not receive an acknowledgement/response to their	request	or	was	dissatisfied	with	the	response	issued and as a result lodge a complaint with the DPC. When the DPC investigates these complaints, it often transpires that the data controller has either (a)	not	performed	an	adequate	search	for	the	personal	data	(b)	has	not	advised	the	individual	they are withholding data and the exemption they are	relying	on	for	same,	or	(c)	will	not	respond	within the required timeframe to the access request. The DPC uses the knowledge gained from handing these complaints to build a picture of how data controllers are applying the data protection principles within their organisation and through their policies and practices.25Annual Report 2021The	DPC	is	concerned	that	it	has	identified	a	pattern where data controllers are not responding to subject access requests received from data subjects and/or not responding to complaint commencement correspondence by the DPC. In 2022 the DPC intends to increase its enforcement in this area and target non-responses and inadequate responses from data controllers. Electronic Direct Marketing ComplaintsThe DPC actively investigates and prosecutes offences	relating	to	electronic	direct	marketing	under	S.I.	336/2011	-	European	Communities	(Electronic Communications Networks and Services)	(Privacy	and	Electronic	Communications)	Regulations	2011	(‘the	ePrivacy	Regulations’).	The ePrivacy Regulations implement Directive 2002/58/EC	(‘the	ePrivacy	Directive’)	in	Irish	law.The DPC received 138 new complaints in relation to electronic direct marketing in 2021. These included some 84 complaints in relation to email messages, 43 complaints in relation to text messages, and 11 complaints concerning phone calls. A total of 150 electronic direct marketing investigations were concluded in 2021. This	figure	is	made	up	of: 1 complaint from 2018;  5 complaints from 2019; 58 complaints from 2020; and 	86	complaints	from	2021.On a matter of topical interest in relation to the current pandemic, it is interesting to note that during 2021 the DPC received three complaints against hotels where the complainants had provided their details for contact tracing purposes. In response to the DPC’s investigation, the hotels in	question	confirmed	that	the	mobile	telephone	numbers of the complainants were collected for contact tracing purposes and erroneously included in direct marketing contact lists. All three complaints were concluded with a warning against the hotels concerned. Cookies InvestigationsDuring 2021 the DPC continued to carry out cookies	investigations,	examining	a	significant	number of websites to assess compliance with the relevant	legislation,	i.e.	Regulations	5(3),	5(4)	and	5(5)	of	the	ePrivacy	Regulations	(S.I.	336/2011).	That legislation provides that consent must be obtained for placing any information on a user’s device, or accessing information already stored on their device, unless one of two limited exemptions are met. It is important to note that the law applies not only to websites, but also to mobile apps and other products that use cookies or similar tracking technologies that access a device. It was notable during the year that the DPC continued to receive complaints and concerns from members of the public about the use of cookies and tracking technologies, and these complaints and concerns were examined and investigated where necessary. Issues targeted by the DPC this year have included the setting of tracking and advertising cookies without consent, the use of cookie banners that obscured the text of the cookies and privacy notices on websites, and the use of pre-ticked boxes or toggles to signal consent for cookies. Investigations and enforcement in this area will continue to be a key element of the DPC’s activities in 2022 and in the coming years. Of note is the fact that EU lawmakers have not yet concluded an updated e-privacy law for Europe. The DPC continues to regulate under the existing EU e-Privacy Directive as transposed under SI No. 336	of	2011	in	Ireland.	No	fines	can	be	imposed	by	DPC and violation of cookies requirements are not an	offence	under	the	SI.	The	DPC	must	therefore	use a circuitous route of demonstrating to the website operator that the SI is not being complied with, then impose an Enforcement Notice if voluntary compliance has not been secured and only if that is not complied with, prosecute for failure to comply with a DPC Notice. The legislation urgently needs to be updated if more resource-efficient	and	effective	enforcement	is	to	be achieved. 26Annual Report 2021One-Stop-Shop ComplaintsThe	One-Stop-Shop	mechanism	(OSS)	was	established under the GDPR with the objective of streamlining how organisations that do business in more than one EU member state engage with data protection authorities (called ‘supervisory	authorities’	under	the	GDPR).	The	OSS requires that these organisations are subject to direct oversight by just one DPA, where they have a ‘main establishment’, rather than being subject to separate regulation by the data protection authorities of each member state. The main establishment of an organisation is generally its place of central administration and/or decision making in the EU/EEA. Since 2018, the DPC has received 1,150 valid cross-border processing complaints. The table below illustrates the proportional breakdown of those 1,150 OSS complaints into ‘Lead Supervisory’ and ‘Concerned Supervisory’ roles for the DPC. Of the 969 complaints where Ireland acted as Lead Supervisory Authority, 65% (634) have been concluded. As a Concerned Supervisory Authority the DPC reviewed 47 draft decisions from other European supervisory authorities in 2021. Of the 47 draft decisions circulated in 2021, only 12 were sent to all supervisory authorities, including four that were circulated by Ireland. Further information on these draft decisions can be found in the chapter on Inquiries. The DPC lodged no objections against any of the draft decisions it received. Data-Breach ComplaintsThe DPC handled 187 complaints relating to both	notified	and	non-notified	data	breaches	in	2021. The majority of these complaints arose from a breach being communicated to the affected	individual	by	the	organisation.	Where	a	breach	has	been	notified	to	the	individual	by	the	data controller but not to the DPC, the DPC will ensure the breach is retrospectively reported and formally	recorded,	accompanied	by	a	clarification	from the data controller/processor as to why the DPC	was	not	notified	in	the	first	instance.	When assessing the necessity of notifying breaches, the DPC advises data controllers that particular focus is given to the impact of a data breach	on	the	rights	and	freedoms	of	an	affected	individual.Most data breach complaints concerned the personal data of an individual inadvertently being issued to another third party in error. The DPC has found that when informing an individual that their personal information has been breached, the explanation provided by the data controller is	often	not	sufficient	to	put	the	mind	of	the	impacted	individual(s)	at	ease.	The	DPC	has	found	that organisations who take the time to properly update	affected	individuals	ultimately	resolve	the	matter sooner, sometimes negating the need for the DPC to become involved at all. DPC CompetencyNo of complaints% DPC as Lead Supervisory Authority 1969 84%DPC as Concerned Supervisory Authority 2181 16%Total 1,150 100%1	–	Complaints	lodged	by	individuals	with	other	EU	data	protection	authorities	and	passed	to	the	DPC	under	the OSS, and complaints lodged directly with the DPC. 2	–	Complaints	lodged	with	the	DPC	and	transferred	to	another	EU	data	protection	authority	as	the	LSA	for	the	organisations concerned. 27Annual Report 2021Law Enforcement Directive ComplaintsThe	Law	Enforcement	Directive	(EU	2016/680)	(‘LED’)	as	transposed	into	Irish	law	on	25	May	2018	in the Data Protection Act 2018 applies where the processing of personal data is carried out for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection	or	prosecution	of	criminal	offences,	or the execution of criminal penalties. In order for the ‘LED’ to be applicable, the data controller must also be a “competent authority” as set out in Section	69	of	the	Data	Protection	Act	2018.	In 2021, the DPC handled 49 LED complaints, the majority of which entailed An Garda Síochána as the data controller but also included organisations such as the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Irish Prison Service, the Garda Síochána Ombudsman Commission, the Department of Justice	and	the	Department	of	Foreign	Affairs	and	Trade.A data controller may restrict data subject rights for one or more of the purposes set out in Section 94 of the Act. In some cases handled the DPC will approach the data controller in relation to the restrictions cited and, as a result of its intervention, the individual will be provided with additional personal data by the data controller. In many other cases, the DPC will agree with the restrictions imposed, following an examination of the legal basis for withholding the data in question.Rapid Direct InterventionIssues of concern from a data protection perspective may come to the attention of the DPC and give rise to rapid direct intervention by the DPC rather than the setting up of an inquiry targeted at enforcement action. This approach is taken to ensure a timely response in the interest of	affected	data	subjects.	Matters examined by the DPC in 2021 included: CCTV in school toilets. CCTV in gyms.	Security	of	files.	 Publication of photographs of minors on website. Auctioneers collecting excessive personal data from people wishing to view properties (see below). Hospitality sector- collection of personal data for Covid purposes on display in a public area.Of particular concern to the DPC during 2021 were media reports regarding Savills Ireland and practices concerning the seeking of excessive personal data from persons wishing to view properties at a new housing development in Dublin. In order to view a property, Savills Ireland were requesting that prospective buyers submit their full proof of funds for the full purchase price for the property, including evidence of mortgage approval, bank statements, evidence of savings or gifts. In response to concerns raised regarding this practice, Savills informed the DPC that the reasoning behind seeking such information was in the context of Covid-19 restrictions, whereby property viewings could only take place by appointment. According to Savills Ireland, the information requested was intended to help ‘triage’ applicants prior to scheduling sales appointments and ensure that prospective viewers attending the appointments could be	designated	as	‘qualified	buyers’	who	could realistically purchase a property in the development. Savills highlighted that such practices were introduced as a result of pandemic-related restrictions and that previously, open viewings would take place with no personal data required in advance of a viewing. Savills referred the DPC to guidance issued to property services providers jointly by the Property Services Regulatory Authority (PSRA), the Society of Chartered Surveyors Ireland (SCSI) and the Institute of Auctioneers and Valuers (IPAV) with regard to viewings when Covid-19 restrictions were in force. Having reviewed matters overall, the DPC did not consider	there	to	be	any	justification	(Covid-19	related	restrictions	included)	for	the	extensive	collection	of	personal	data	such	as	financial	statements or proof of funds from prospective buyers at the initial stages of advertising or hosting viewings of a property. Following the intervention of the DPC, Savills immediately deactivated the online questionnaire.28In view of Savills Ireland response and the potential of other estate agents seeking similar and additional information such as utility bills and PPS numbers, the DPC published sectoral guidance.Complaints under the Data Protection Acts 1988 & 2003The DPC continues to receive and examine complaints that fall under the remit of the Data Protection	Acts	1988	&	2003.	The	DPC	received	30 cases in 2021 which were deemed to fall under	the	remit	of	the	1988	&	2003	Acts.	Under	both	the	2018	Act	and	the	1988	&	2003	Acts,	it	is the statutory obligation of the DPC to strive to amicably resolve complaints that are received from members of the public. Throughout the last year, the vast majority of complaints falling under	the	1988	&	2003	Acts	were	concluded	amicably between the parties to the complaint without the necessity for issuing a formal decision under	Section	10	of	the	1988	&	2003	Acts.	The	Commissioner has issued 31 formal decisions under	the	Data	Protection	Acts	1988	&	2003	since January 2021 of which 16 fully upheld the complaint and 9 rejected the complaint. 29Annual Report 2021Case Studies Content absent from an access request (Amicable Resolution)The DPC received a complaint from an individual regarding a subject access request made by them to a data controller for a copy of all information relating to them. The data controller was involved in car park management and a dispute had arisen following the clamping of the individual’s vehicle. The clamping incident was the subject of an appeal to the National Transport Authority. The individual did not receive any response from the data controller.The individual was subsequently provided with their personal data but did not consider that the data provided to them was complete. Following the intervention of the DPC, further searches were undertaken and the data controller	identified	additional	data	which	was	released to the individual.The	individual	remained	unsatisfied	as	they had not been provided with a copy of a particular email which they had sent to the data controller. They stated that it was important for their appeal that they were able to prove that the data controller had received the email in question. The data controller	subsequently	provided	this	office	with a report from the company which hosts its email services showing that the email in question was received but was quarantined as suspected spam and did not reach any of the intended mailboxes nor was it opened by any persons within the organisation. This email was then automatically deleted from their servers after 14 days. The data controller also provided screenshots from searches conducted of each of the intended mailboxes, which did not return the email in question.Article	12(3)	of	the	GDPR	states	that	“the	controller shall provide information on action taken on a request under Articles 15 to 22 to the data subject without undue delay and in any event within one month of receipt of the  request..” Having examined the matter thoroughly, it was apparent to the DPC that the data controller did not comply with its obligations under	article	12(3)	of	the	GDPR	as	it	had	an obligation to provide a response to the individual’s subject access request within the statutory timeframe, and the data provided to the individual in this case was provided outside of this timeframe. Regarding the email which was quarantined by the data controller’s system, it was clear that this email was not in existence at the time the access request was made. When making decisions around the quarantine of emails, the controller must have due regard to security obligations in line with Article 32 but also ensure that it does not infringe on the rights of individuals. In this case, there was no apparent right interfered with through the initial quarantine and deletion of the email  in question.Case Study 130Annual Report 2021Case Study 2Requests for identification when responding to access requests (Amicable Resolution)A complaint was received from an individual who had submitted an access request to a hotel (the data controller) for a copy of all information relating to them. The hotel asked the requester to provide a copy of a utility bill and a copy of photo ID verified by An Garda Síochána. The DPC asked the data controller to set out the particular concerns it had regarding the identity of the requester in circumstances where the postal address and email address being used by the requester were the same as those provided by them during the booking and check-in process at the hotel. The data was subsequently released to the requester.In relation to the general approach to requesting ID where data subjects seek to exercise their rights, controllers should only request the minimum amount of further information necessary and proportionate in order to prove the requester’s identity. Seeking proof of identity would be less likely to be appropriate where there was no real doubt about identity; but where there are doubts, or the information sought is of a particularly sensitive nature, then it may be appropriate to request proof. Bearing in mind the general principle of data minimisation, seeking more information than that already held as a means of proving identity is likely to be disproportionate.	A	request	for	official	ID is only likely to be proportionate to validate	identification	where	the	category	of information relating to that individual is sensitive in nature and where the information	on	the	official	ID	can	be	corroborated with the personal data already held by the data controller such as a photo, address or date of birth.  The categories of personal data held and the likelihood of the risks associated with its release should be considered on a case-by-case basis to determine the minimum level of information required. Where no special category personal data is held, confirmation	of	address	may	be	sufficient.	In cases where there is in fact special category personal, additional information may be proportionate but only that which would	be	sufficient	to	confirm	identity,	having regard to the data already being processed. 31Annual Report 2021Case Study 3Processing of footage of funeral service by parish church(Applicable Law – GDPR & Data Protection Act 2018)An individual made a complaint against a parish church regarding the processing of the individual’s personal data arising from the live streaming and recording of a family member’s funeral service that the individual had attended. The individual also complained about a lack of transparency that the recording was taking place.The individual complained to the DPC about the parish church’s response to their concern around the use of live streaming and recording for funeral services. In our examination of the complaint, the DPC engaged with the parish church to ascertain their lawful basis for processing and for clarification	on	their	response	to	the	data	complaint. The parish church informed the DPC that live streaming of funeral services was used during Covid-19 restrictions and that they record funeral services when requested to do so by family members, which did happen in this complaint, usually when one cannot attend the funeral. The parish church informed the DPC they use one	camera	in	a	fixed	location	to	make	these recordings and for live streaming. The parish church removes the recordings from their website at the end of 30 days. The parish church apologised to the individual for any distress caused and particularly for not informing the individual of the 30 days only retention period. The parish church informs attendees at the beginning of services that they will be live streamed and have signs with this information at their entrance doors. The parish church implemented changes because of this complaint, including informing attendees during a service that it is being live streamed, including information on their live streaming and recording in parish newsletters and on their website, only responding to written requests for recordings and password protecting the recordings in future. The DPC wrote to the individual and advised them	under	section	109(5)(c)	of	the	2018	Act that the parish church and those unable to attend a funeral service had a legitimate interest to view the service by live stream or recording. The DPC noted the 30-day retention	period	of	the	footage,	the	fixed	restricted view of the camera and the changes the parish church had made arising from this complaint, including requiring a request for recording to be made in writing and password protecting these recordings. The DPC advised the individual that the response of the parish church was reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and noted that the recording was requested by another family member of the deceased. Nevertheless, the DPC recommended	under	section	109(5)(f)	of	the	2018 Act that the parish church update the privacy policy available on its website with more information on the live streaming and recording of funeral services.32Annual Report 2021Case Study 4Use of location data to verify expense claimsThe complainant in this case study was a former employee of a statutory service provider, whose work involved driving to locations assigned by his employer. Where this gave rise to claims for overtime or subsistence, the complainant would complete forms provided by the employer, detailing items such as relevant dates and places, dispatch reference numbers, and the amounts claimed. The employer made use of a dispatch system intended	to	ensure	the	most	efficient	use	of drivers and vehicles, particularly as they provided response in emergency situations. This system logged the performance and completion of service calls, when vehicles were out on calls or back at base, and when drivers were	on	or	off	duty.The complainant had made a claim for overtime and subsistence. The employer rejected this because of inconsistencies between the details on the complainant’s claim form and those recorded on the employer’s dispatch system. The complainant objected to the use of data from the dispatch system for this purpose and complained to the DPC.The DPC considered whether the use of data from the dispatch system to verify overtime and subsistence claims was in line with fair processing requirements. The fairness of the processing was to be assessed by reference to whether the complainant and fellow employees had been made aware of the employer’s use of the data for that purpose, whether that processing was compatible with the purpose for which the data was collected, and whether the employer had a legal basis for that processing.The employer did not have a written policy on the use of the dispatch system. Instead, it relied on the “general awareness” of employees that the system was used for that purpose. The employer pointed out that such use had been noted in an arrangement with its employees’ trade unions some years previously. The DPC noted that overtime and subsistence claims required employees to include relevant dispatch reference numbers from the dispatch system. The DPC took the view that the inclusion of relevant dispatch system reference numbers in overtime and subsistence claims indicated that employees were aware that the data was used not just for logistical processing but also to verify their claims. Even if the major purpose of the dispatch system was to aid logistics, its use to verify overtime claims was not incompatible with that purpose, as that data was the only means available to the employer to verify claims. The	DPC	noted	that	applicable	financial	regulations required the employer to verify overtime and subsistence claims. The processing to verify overtime and subsistence claims was necessary not just to comply with that legal obligation, but to perform the complainant’s employment contract and for reasons of legitimate interests of the employers. This case is an example of when data collected for	one	legitimate	purpose	–	in	this	case,	logistical	control	–	may	be	appropriately	processed for another, in this case verifying overtime claims. However, controllers should bear in mind the overarching requirement to process personal data fairly and must ensure that data subjects are made aware of what data is collected, and the nature and purpose of the processing. Equally important is that the processing have a legal basis, which in most cases will require that the processing is necessary for the stated purpose.33Annual Report 2021Case Study 5Unauthorised disclosure in a workplace setting (1)The complainant alleged that insecure processing by his former employer had made his personal data accessible to unauthorised persons, including former colleagues and external third parties. The complainant was in legal dispute with the company arising from his dismissal. In connection with that dispute, the company had prepared documents including an internal investigation report and a legal submission to the	Workplace	Relation	Commission	(WRC).	While the WRC submission did not contain a great deal of the complainant’s personal data, the internal investigation report did.Approximately one month before the complainant	first	contacted	the	DPC,	the	company	had	notified	the	DPC	of	a	data	breach.	The	notification	stated	that	the	WRC	submission had been inadvertently stored on a folder accessible by all employees, rather than on one that was accessible only	by	authorised	HR	staff.	The	error	was noticed and corrected two days later, and	the	company	notified	the	DPC	shortly	thereafter. The company’s systems did not record whether, when or by whom the WRC submission might have been accessed, or whether it had been copied or printed.In the complaint, the complainant alleged that	the	breach	affected	not	just	the	WRC	submission but also the internal investigation report, and that these had been accessible from all parts of the company’s intranet, including on a device that could be used by both employees and visitors to the company’s premises. The complainant submitted statements from former colleagues who described having access to documents relating to “the internal investigation.” The company denied that the internal investigation report had ever been accessible by unauthorised persons. It also maintained that, while the WRC submission had been inappropriately available for a short time on the company’s intranet, it was not on a part of it accessible to non-employees. The DPC addressed two main issues: what had been the content and extent of the breach, and whether the company’s security measures had met the standard required by applicable data protection legislation.The complainant’s former colleagues had said that documents concerning “the internal investigation” had been accessible by them. However, these statements had not described in any detail the nature or contents of the documents, did not say when or by whom they had been seen, and did not say that the documents were accessible by non-employees. Against that, the company had consistently maintained that the WRC submission, but not the internal investigation report, had been inappropriately accessible to employees for a number of days.	Significantly,	the	company	had	notified	the DPC of that approximately one month before	the	complainant	had	first	lodged	his	complaint. The DPC took the view that there was	insufficient	evidence	to	support	the	claim	that the internal investigation report had been disclosed, or that the complainant’s personal data had been accessible by non-employees as well as unauthorised employees.Concerning the company’s security measures, the DPC noted that the applicable standard had	to	reflect	and	mitigate	the	harm	that	could be caused by relevant risks including, as in this case, disclosure to unauthorised persons. The company was clearly aware of the risk of disclosure, as it had arranged for confidential	documents	to	be	stored	in	a	way	that	gave	access	only	to	authorised	HR	staff.	Continued overleaf  34Annual Report 2021Case Study 6Lack of appropriate security measures unauthorised disclosure  in a workplace setting (2)The DPC received a complaint against an employer, a manufacturing company, asserting that their private information including attendances with the company doctor, details of a personal injury claim being pursued against the company and details of a disciplinary procedure taken against the complainant had been placed on the company’s shared ‘C-Drive’, available to be viewed by anyone within the company, and that a copy of the data on a CD-ROM was also left on the complainant’s desk.  It became apparent during the examination of the complaint that a number of workplace computers had been used to access the data on the shared drive, which the company stated was downloaded, copied or sent to an external email address. The organisation advised that it had carried out an investigation of the incident resulting in two employees, identified	as	having	a	significant	role	in	the	incident, having their employment terminated and	that	An	Garda	Síochána	had	been	notified	about	the	incident.	The	company	notified	the DPC of the breach incident outlining that certain data was accessed and viewed by at least two of its employees.It was stated that the data was being transferred internally from its Human Resources	(HR)	department	to	its	Legal	department due to the imminent departure of one of its HR employees. During the transfer a large	volume	of	electronic	files	relating	to	legal	cases involving a large number of individuals had the potential to be accessed and viewed by employees who would not ordinarily have access to these. The implementation of measures to protect and secure personal data are foundational principles of data protection law particularly in terms of ensuring there is no unauthorised access to or destruction of personal data. With	regard	to	this	specific	complaint,	the	DPC	observed	firstly	that	the	information	in	respect	of the complainant which was disclosed as part of the data breach included very sensitive information, and which constituted “special category data”, in circumstances where special category data includes information about “data concerning health or data concerning a natural person’s sex life”. However, the company had failed to properly anticipate and mitigate the risk of human error in storing such documents, as had happened to the WRC submission. The DPC also reminded the company of the need to ensure that relevant personnel are aware of the need to handle personal data in accordance with applicable security measures, and to respond to breaches accordingly.This case illustrates how data controllers must consider all risks that can arise when they process personal data, including the risk of human error. The measures that they adopt to	address	those	risks	must	reflect	not	just	the	possible causes of loss or harm, but also the consequences of a breach, and the ways in which those consequences can be minimised or remedied.Continued overleaf  35Annual Report 2021The information (examples of which were provided	to	this	office)	included	details	of attendances with the company doctor which revealed very personal and sensitive information about the complainant’s physical health, mental health and their personal circumstances. It was noted that this information was being maintained by the company in the context of legal proceedings/claims being taken by the individual. Given the nature of the information, there was a particularly strong onus on the company to ensure that only those who needed access to such information were granted and so could access and process same. The issue regarding this complaint was the placing	of	files	to	include	the	complainant’s	personal information on a shared drive accessible to all employees. The DPC considered that due regard was not given to the sensitivity of the information contained in	the	files	and	the	risks	entailed	with	making	them available to any employee of the company, even if this was only for a very short period of time. It would seem that the decision	to	transfer	the	files	to	the	shared	drive was taken for pragmatic reasons, i.e. the	company	confirmed	it	was	executed	in	this	manner	as	the	files	were	too	large	to	be	sent by email. However, this did not justify the placing of the	files	somewhere	where	any	employee	of the company would be able to access them, particularly given the risk of harm to the data subject if colleagues of theirs were able	to	find	out	very	personal	and	sensitive	information which the complainant may, quite legitimately, not have expected or wanted other employees to know, save to the extent that it was strictly necessary for limited employees to know in relation to legal proceedings/claims between the data subject and their employer. Moreover, there were a number of alternative options in transferring	the	files	to	the	Legal	department	which would not have presented the same risk to the security of the personal data, including	placing	the	files	on	a	folder,	whether on the shared drive or otherwise, where access was restricted to limited individuals. That such alternative options might have been more time-consuming or difficult	to	implement	were	no	justification	for	the	placing	of	the	files	on	the	shared	drive with unrestricted access to other employees. The fall-out of the failure to protect personal data in this case was considerable giving rise to legal proceedings against the company by the	affected	individual,	the	loss	of	two	long-term employees who were dismissed not to mention the impact on the individual whose data was disclosed.36Annual Report 2021Case Study 7Delisting request made to internet search engine(Applicable Law – GDPR & Data Protection  Act 2018)A data subject made a complaint against an internet search engine regarding the search engine’s response to their delisting request. The complaint concerned two URLs that appeared as results to searches of the individual’s name on the search engine. During the handling of this complaint, the individual included one further URL that they sought the search engine to delist.The criteria to be applied by search engines is that delisting must occur if the results are irrelevant, inadequate or excessive. A case-by-base balancing exercise must be conducted by the search engine that balances rights of access	and	rights	of	those	individuals	affected	by search results. The individual had originally personally engaged with the search engine seeking delisting of the URLs because the individual argued the URLs contained defamatory content, making it unlawful to process them, and that the URLs were impacting on the individual’s private and professional life given their content. The search engine operator refused to delist the URLs because they related to information about the individual’s professional life and there was a public interest in accessing this information.The DPC engaged with the search engine operator regarding their refusal to delist. The search engine operator relied on the legitimate interest of third parties to access the information in the URLs. No defamation proceedings had been pursued by the individual against the original publishers of the relevant content and so it was not possible to	definitively	decide	the	question	of	whether	content in the URLs was defamatory or not. That being said, during the course of the handling of this complaint by the DPC, the search engine operator delisted the URLs in Ireland alone based on the defamation arguments of the individual. The individual continued with their DPC complaint seeking delisting across Europe and not just Ireland. Further, the webpages underlying all of the three URLs were deactivated by the webmaster during the handling of this complaint. Article	17(3)(a)	of	the	GDPR	states	the	right	to be forgotten will not apply where the processing of personal data is necessary “for exercising the right of freedom of expression and information”. In examining this complaint, the DPC noted the information contained in the webpages - the subject of the individual’s complaint - relates to previous business conduct by them relevant to their professional life. The individual continues to engage in the same professional sphere and activities. The individual accepted this by arguing the content was impacting their professional life. The individual argued the content was inaccurate because it was defamatory. The DPC	noted	that	a	significant	majority	of	the	content the individual said was inaccurate was a blog post and comments of third parties and related to their professional activities; appearing to be the opinions of third-party commentators. The DPC concluded if a third party were to consider the webpages the subject of this complaint it would be clear that the comments were made as user-generated content and represent third party opinions	rather	than	appearing	as	verified	fact. The role of the search engine in listing is not to challenge or censor the opinions of third parties unless to list results gives rise to personal data processing on the part of the search engine that is irrelevant, inadequate or excessive. Continued overleaf  37Annual Report 2021Case Study 8Department of Employment Affairs and Social Protection – Independence of the DPO (Applicable Law – GDPR & Data Protection Act 2018)The DPC commenced this Inquiry after receiving a complaint from Digital Rights Ireland alleging interference with the independence	of	the	Data	Protection	Officer	(DPO)	in	the	Department	of	Employment	Affairs	and	Social	Protection	(DEASP)	(now	the	Department	of	Social	Protection	–	D/SP)	in	the	context	of	the	D/SP’s	amendment	to	its	Privacy	Statement	on	6	July	2018,	in	which it removed the only reference to its processing of biometric data from the Statement. The decision considered whether the Department’s DPO was involved in the issue of amending the Privacy Statement in a proper and timely manner in accordance with	Article	38(1)	of	the	GDPR;	and	whether	the DPO received instructions regarding the exercise of his tasks contrary to the requirements	of	Article	38(3)	of	the	GDPR.	The scope of the inquiry did not concern whether the Department’s amendment complied with its transparency obligations under the GDPR. Having regard to all of the relevant information, the DPC found that the Department involved their DPO, properly and in a timely manner, in the Department’s amendment to its Privacy Statement as implemented	on	6	July	2018.	Therefore,	the	Department	did	not	infringe	Article	38(1)	of the GDPR in the circumstances. The decision also found that the Department did not provide any instructions to the DPO regarding the exercise of the tasks referred to in Article 39 of the GDPR in respect of the Department’s amendment to its	Privacy	Statement	as	implemented	on	6	July 2018. Therefore, the Department did not	infringe	Article	38(3)	of	the	GDPR	in	the	circumstances.The DPC concluded that given the individual’s business role and role in public life arising from their professional life, there is a public interest in accessing information regarding their professional life within the European Union. The DPC wrote to the individual and under section	109(5)(b)	of	the	2018	Act	dismissed	the individual’s complaint based on the above considerations.38Annual Report 2021Case Study 9Case Study 10Case Study 11Data restrictions – absence of consent from all parties  (Law Enforcement Directive)In one case examined by the DPC, a parent applied to An Garda Síochána for copies of the personal data of his young children. An Garda Síochána refused to supply the data. The DPC advised the parent that it agreed with the restriction imposed, as the controller in this case had particular knowledge of all of the circumstances pertaining to a shared guardianship arrangement in place and considered that consent of all legal guardians would be required in order to release the data in this case. Data restrictions – third-party data; opinion given in confidence (Law Enforcement Directive)The DPC examined a case where restrictions were imposed by An Garda Síochána to access on the basis of Sections 91(7) and (8) of the Data Protection Act 2018.  The matter related to an individual seeking copies of allegations of abuse made against him with regard to the welfare of his parents. Having examined this matter, it was clear to the DPC that releasing the information would entail the release of third-party data and would reveal the identity of the person making the allegations. The	DPC	was	satisfied	on	review	that	the	information sought was provided in the strictest of	confidence	and	considered	the	provisions	of	Section	91(9)(a)	also	applied.Data restrictions – prosecutions pending (Law Enforcement Directive)The DPC frequently examines complaints in relation to restrictions imposed by An Garda Síochána and the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) due to criminal prosecutions pending. Complaints range from assault cases where documentation such as PULSE records, photographs and An Garda Síochána reports of the incidents are sought, to requests for CCTV footage from within An Garda Síochána stations themselves.  In some cases, An Garda Síochána may supply an individual with a copy of their statement provided by the individuals but will withhold other	data	on	the	basis	of	Section	94(3)(a)	of	the Act whereby a data controller may restrict access, wholly or partly, for the purposes of “the prevention, detection or investigation of offences,	the	apprehension	or	prosecution	of	offenders	or	the	effectiveness	of	lawful	methods, systems, plans or procedures employed for the purposes of the matters aforesaid.”Upon	confirmation	by	a	data	controller	that	criminal prosecutions are pending, the DPC will advise an individual that once legal matters in relation to those cases are concluded, the individuals may re-apply for a copy of their data as set out in Section 91 of the Data Protection Act 2018. 39Annual Report 2021Case Study 12Access restrictions (Law Enforcement Directive)The DPC received a complaint from an individual who alleged they were a victim of a crime. The individual requested to have their sensitive personal data processed by An Garda Síochána (AGS) according to their specific terms, namely they requested to have a full copy of the medical results of forensic tests undertaken by Forensic Science Ireland (FSI) made available to them immediately upon receipt of the results by AGS. The individual then sought to have the sample kit split, with this request subsequently amended to seeking the analysis of specific sample vials. The DPC noted that the entire process of seeking the analysis of forensic samples, following the alleged crime, was initiated by the individual data subject. In order to proceed with the forensic tests, the individual was required to complete a form entitled ‘Consent for Release of Stored Forensic and a Legal Report to the Custody of An Garda Síochána’. The DPC determined that any personal data processed by AGS in the context outlined would fall under the	Law	Enforcement	Directive	(EU)	2016/680	as transposed in the Data Protection Act. AGS advised the DPC that in cases where an individual submits their personal data to AGS and FSI for further testing, any related further processing by AGS and FSI is carried out for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection	or	prosecution	of	criminal	offences,	or the execution of criminal penalties. Thus, a report issued by Forensic Science Ireland to AGS, is governed by the provisions of Section 94 of the Act, which sets out restrictions on access that may be imposed by a data controller, including a restriction to avoid prejudicing an investigation. Having examined the matters raised, the DPC advised the individual that the Law Enforcement Directive (EU)	2016/680	as	transposed	in	Parts	5	and	6	of	the	Act	does	not	provide	for	individuals	to stipulate the conditions under which data subjects consent to have their personal data processed by a law enforcement authority. In relation to the processing of forensic samples in a law enforcement context, the DPC	was	satisfied	the	processing	of	sensitive	data was in compliance with sections 71 and	73(1)(b)(i)	of	the	Act.	The	DPC	noted	the	‘Consent for Release of Stored Forensic and a Legal Report to the Custody of An Garda Síochána’ form	specified	all	the	intended	recipients	of	the	data,	as	well	as	the	fact	that	the	findings	of the laboratory tests and the legal report could also be released to the courts for use in evidence. The DPC recommended the addition of a Data Protection Notice to the form, to allow data subjects obtain detailed information on the legislative framework and procedures governing the conditions of processing in relation to forensic samples and AGS investigations.40Annual Report 2021Case Study 13Prosecution of Three Ireland (Hutchison) Limited (ePrivacy)In February 2021, the DPC received one complaint from an individual concerning unsolicited marketing electronic mail they had received from the telecommunications company Three Ireland (Hutchison) Limited. The complainant opted out of receiving marketing emails in mid-February 2021. In response to the DPC’s investigation, Three Ireland (Hutchison) Limited explained that when it attempted to execute the opt-out request an issue arose from a scenario of two records getting sent simultaneously and losing sequence, resulting in its system not being updated correctly. As a result, three further marketing emails were sent to the complainant in the following weeks. Three Ireland (Hutchison) Limited stated that it remedied the matter by implementing a script to resolve differences between permissions data. It also set up an email alert to monitor the script and raise an alert should the script stop working. The DPC had previously prosecuted Three Ireland	(Hutchison)	Limited	in	2020	and	2012 for breaching Regulation 13 of the ePrivacy Regulations in relation to previous complaints. Accordingly, the DPC decided to proceed to another prosecution arising from this complaint case. At	Dublin	Metropolitan	District	Court	on	6	September	2021,	Three	Ireland	(Hutchison)	Limited pleaded guilty to two charges under Regulation	13(1)	of	the	ePrivacy	Regulations.	The District Court applied the Probation of	Offenders	Act	1907,	on	the	basis	of	a	charitable	donation	of	€3,000	to	Little	Flower	Penny	Dinners.	Three	Ireland	(Hutchison)	Limited agreed to discharge the DPC’s legal costs. 41Annual Report 2021Case Study 14Prosecution of Vodafone Ireland Limited (ePrivacy)In August 2019, March and September 2020, the DPC received three complaints from individuals regarding unsolicited marketing telephone calls, text messages and emails they had received from Vodafone Ireland Limited. In response to the DPC’s investigation of the first complaint, Vodafone Ireland Limited explained that the former customer had called Vodafone Ireland Limited on seven separate occasions to try to opt-out of receiving marketing phone calls to their mobile phone. On each occasion the agent they spoke to did not follow proper procedures and this resulted in the former customer not being opted out of marketing and receiving further marketing calls. The complainant closed his account with Vodafone Ireland Limited and switched to another operator due to the marketing phone calls he received. In the other two cases, the complainants are existing customers of Vodafone Ireland Limited. In one case the customer received a marketing call to their mobile phone number in February 2019 and during that call the customer told the caller that they did not want to receive further marketing calls. Despite this request, Vodafone Ireland Limited subsequently made a further twelve marketing phone calls to the complainant’s mobile phone as its agent did not take any action to change the complainant’s marketing preferences. In the other case, the complainant completed a transfer of ownership form on which they clearly set out their marketing preferences not to receive any marketing communications from Vodafone Ireland Limited. The agent handling the transaction failed to follow a process to input the customer’s marketing preferences. As a result, the customer subsequently received a further fourteen unsolicited	marketing	messages	–	seven	emails and seven text messages. The DPC had previously prosecuted Vodafone Ireland Limited in 2019, 2018, 2013 and 2011 for breaching Regulation 13 of the ePrivacy Regulations in relation to previous complaints. Accordingly, the DPC decided to proceed to another prosecution arising from these complaint cases. At	Dublin	Metropolitan	District	Court	on	6	September 2021, Vodafone Ireland Limited pleaded guilty to seven charges under Regulation	13(1)	and	13(6)(a)	of	the	ePrivacy	Regulations. The District Court convicted Vodafone Ireland Limited on seven charges and	imposed	fines	totalling	€1,400.	Vodafone	Ireland Limited agreed to discharge the DPC’s legal costs.42Annual Report 2021Case Study 15Request for footage from online meeting (Access Complaints)An individual participated in a Zoom meeting that was recorded by the data controller. This was the sporting club’s AGM. The individual made an access request for a copy of this recording. The data controller refused the request stating that it didn’t fall within the remit of GDPR. The individual believed the data contained in the recording was their personal data. The data controller stated the video recordings of the AGM were no longer accessible due to corruption while saving and the inexperience of the data controller in employing this remote video hosting software. However they stated the minutes of the meeting would be available for viewing within a space of weeks.  At this time, the DPC proposed the conclusion of this case in light of the apparent inaccessibility of videos sought by the individual, but the individual did not agree with this approach, stating that video conferencing used during the AGM had been common practice for the data controller for some time and so it seemed unlikely to the individual	that	the	difficulties	described	by	the data controller would have occurred. Upon further questioning by the DPC, the data	controller	confirmed	that	video	footage	was in fact available, but advanced Article 15(4)	of	GDPR	as	a	reason	for	its	restriction.	The data controller was now stating that the video footage of third parties visible in the recording could be considered third-party data and the individual was not entitled to this. However, they were willing to provide written transcripts of the footage to the individual. The DPC contested this, coming to the opinion that, in light of the public nature of the original recordings, as they were part of an AGM, they were made with the participant’s understanding that they could be considered accessible at a later date. Further issues arose when the individual received written transcripts of the video. The individual claimed that the transcripts were inaccurate	and	did	not	reflect	the	contents	of	the original video. In light of this, the DPC contacted the data controller once again, both highlighting the DPC’s opinion regarding the advancement of Article	15(4)	and	seeking	sight	of	the	video	from which the transcript had been made. The data controller provided the audio of the video only. Upon assessment, it was clear that the transcript was an accurate reflection	of	the	video’s	audio	content.	The	DPC recommended that in order to facilitate an amicable resolution at this stage the data controller should release the same audio content, previously provided to the DPC, to the individual. The data controller complied, but	the	individual	was	still	not	satisfied,	once	again restating their request for sight of the video content. Upon further request by the DPC to state the exemption it relied on to restrict access to the video content, it was decided by the data controller to release the full video content to the individual. The DPC did not receive copy of the full video content, and so was unable to directly assess whether there was any disparity between it and the audio	provided.	However,	upon	confirmation	of its receipt, the individual stated they were satisfied	with	its	content	and	thus	this	matter	was concluded amicably. The above case involved extensive communication between the DPC, the data controller and the individual. This matter could have been resolved by the data controller if they had released the requested video footage on receipt of the access request. If the data controller was aware of its obligations	under	GDPR	in	the	first	instance	then this case would not have been lodged with the DPC.43Annual Report 2021Case Study 16Exemptions applied to CCTV footage (Access Complaints)The DPC received a complaint from an individual regarding an access request made to the data controller, a retailer. The solicitors acting for the individual in relation to a personal injury claim had submitted the access request relating to a two-week period when the alleged incident had taken place. They were seeking records of the incident to include CCTV footage. Data was released but the individual identified that the CCTV footage, the accident report form and witness statements had not been released. In responding to the individual’s query in relation to these items, the data controller advised they were restricting access to the items as it was necessary to avoid any obstruction or impairment of the legal proceedings and/or operation of legal privilege. This	complaint	was	identified	as	potentially	being capable of amicable resolution under Section 109 of the Data Protection Act 2018, with both the complainant and data controller agreeing to work with the DPC to try to amicably resolve the matter.The DPC advised the data controller to prepare a list which would document any items which the organisation was applying an exemption to, while also documenting the exemption on which they were relying. On receipt of the list, the DPC probed the exemptions being used and looked for the organisation to demonstrate how they had ensured the restriction was necessary and proportionate. The DPC also looked for samples of the documents to be released so we could examine how the exemptions were being applied.  Upon	investigation	the	DPC	identified	that	the documents did contain some personal data of the individual and requested the data controller to release them with relevant redactions. In relation to the CCTV footage, the DPC stated that the primary reason for capturing the data was for security purposes and not for the defence of litigation claim and therefore requested the footage be released to the individual with relevant redactions. The DPC accepted the remaining exemptions were being validly applied as provided by the legislation.Case Study 1744Annual Report 2021Amicable resolution in cross-border complaints:  access request to AirbnbThe DPC received a complaint in September 2020 relating to a request for access (under Article 15 of the GDPR), that the complainant had made to Airbnb Ireland UC (“Airbnb”). The complaint was made directly to the DPC, from an individual based in Malta. Upon assessment by the DPC, the complaint was deemed to be a cross border one because it related to Airbnb’s general operational policies and, as Airbnb is available throughout the EU, the processing complained of was therefore deemed to be of a kind “….which substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect data subjects in more than one Member State” (as per the definition of cross-border processing under Article 4(23) of the GDPR).  The complainant submitted an access request to Airbnb. Airbnb facilitated this access request by providing the complainant with	a	link	to	an	access	file	containing	his personal data. However, when the complainant tried to use the link, it was not operational. In addition, the complainant was	frustrated	with	the	difficulty	they	faced	in contacting Airbnb in relation to this matter. The complainant submitted their complaint to the DPC on this basis. The DPC contacted Airbnb and asked that it facilitate the complainant’s request. The DPC	specified	that	Airbnb	should	ensure	any links it sends to complainants are fully tested and operational. In reply, Airbnb explained that once it was informed that the initial link it sent to the complainant was not operational, it sent a renewed link to the complainant and was unaware that the complainant had had any	difficulty	in	accessing	this	second	link.	Nonetheless, in the interests of amicably resolving the complaint, Airbnb agreed to provide	an	additional	link	to	an	access	file	to	the	complainant	and	for	an	encrypted	file	to	be sent to the complainant via secure email. As a result, the matter was amicably resolved	pursuant	to	section	109(3)	of	the	Data	Protection	Act	2018	(“the	Act”),	and	under	section	109(3)	of	the	Act	the	complaint was deemed to have been withdrawn. This case study demonstrates the	benefits	—	to	individual	complainants	— of the DPC’s intervention by way of the amicable resolution process. In this case, the DPC’s involvement led to the complainant being able to access his data. This case study illustrates how often simple matters - such as links which do not operate properly - can become data protection complaints if the matter is not managed appropriately at the front end of data controllers’ customer service and data protection teams. Case Study 1845Annual Report 2021Amicable resolution in cross-border complaints: Google (YouTube)The DPC received a complaint in September 2020, via its complaint webform, against Google Ireland Limited (YouTube). The complaint was made by a parent acting on behalf of their child and concerned a YouTube channel/account. The YouTube channel/account had been set up when the child was ten years old and at a time when they did not appreciate the consequences of posting videos online. Although the complaint was made directly to the DPC by an Irish resident, upon assessment it was deemed to constitute a cross-border complaint because it related to YouTube’s general operational policies and, as YouTube is available throughout the EU, the processing complained of was therefore deemed to be of a kind “which substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect data subjects in more than one Member State” (as per	the	definition	of	cross-border	processing	under	Article	4(23)	of	the	GDPR).According to the complainant, the child no longer had control over the account as they had lost their passwords and the account was no longer in use. However, classmates of the child had discovered the videos, previously posted by the child which were now the subject of embarrassment to the child. The parent of the child had engaged in extensive correspondence with Google, seeking inter alia the erasure of the account from the YouTube platform. The parent had	provided	the	URL	for	a	specific	video	on the account and for the account itself. The parent was informed by Google, on a number of occasions, that it had taken action and removed the content from the platform. However, the parent repeatedly followed up to note that the content had not in fact been removed and was still available online. As she considered that the complaint had not been appropriately addressed she thus raised the matter with the DPC. This	complaint	was	identified	as	potentially	being capable of amicable resolution under Section 109 of the Data Protection Act 2018, with both the individual and Data Controller agreeing to work with the DPC to try to amicably resolve the matter. The DPC investigated the background to the complaint and noted that it appeared that Google had removed	a	specific	video	from	the	account,	for which the URL had been provided, but it had not removed the account in its entirety, with the result that further videos remained online. The DPC communicated with Google on the matter and informed Google of the particular background of the complaint. Google immediately took action and removed the YouTube account in its entirety. Google confirmed	that	a	misunderstanding	had	arisen as its support team had incorrectly assessed	the	URL	for	a	specific	video	provided by the complainant, rather than the entire account.The DPC informed the parent of the outcome and it proposed an amicable resolution to the complaint. The parent thereafter informed the DPC that she had recently become aware of another YouTube channel that her child had created, which again was no longer in use, and the child wanted deleted. The DPC thus corresponded further with Google and Google	confirmed	it	had	taken	immediate	action to remove the account and informed the parent of the actions it had taken.This case highlights that the DPC can assist data subjects during the amicable resolution process in explaining their particular requests to a data controller, often at the appropriate level, when an individual has previously been unsuccessful in initial engagement with the data controller. This further allows the DPC to monitor the compliance of data controllers by taking note of any issues that may be repeated across other complaints. 46Annual Report 2021Case Study 19Amicable resolution in cross-border complaints:  Yahoo EMEA LimitedThe DPC received a complaint in March 2021 from the Bavarian data protection authority on behalf of a Bavarian complainant against Yahoo EMEA Limited. Under the One-Stop-Shop (OSS) mechanism created by the GDPR, the location of a company’s main EU establishment dictates which EU authority will act as the lead supervisory authority (LSA) in relation to any complaints received. Once the lead authority is established, the authority that received the complaint acts as a concerned supervisory authority (CSA). The CSA is the intermediary between the LSA and the individual. In this case, the DPC is the LSA, as the company complained of has its main establishment in Ireland.  The complainant in this matter had lost access to his email account following an update on his computer. The complainant noted that he had engaged with Yahoo in order to regain access and was asked for information relating to the account in order to authenticate his ownership of it. The complainant asserted that he had provided this information. However, Yahoo informed the complainant that it could not verify his identity with the use of the information that it had been provided. The complainant was unclear which information he had provided was not correct and thus continued to give the same answers to the security questions. As Yahoo could not authenticate the complainant’s ownership of the account, it recommended that he create a new email account. The	complainant	was	not	satisfied	with	this	solution and thus made a complaint to his local supervisory authority, who referred the complaint on the DPC in its role as Lead Supervisory Authority for Yahoo.This	complaint	was	identified	as	potentially	being capable of amicable resolution under Section 109 of the Data Protection Act 2018, with both the individual and Data Controller agreeing to work with the DPC to try to amicably resolve the matter. The DPC contacted Yahoo on the matter, and Yahoo took a proactive approach and immediately noted its desire to reach out to the complainant directly to seek to resolve the issue as soon as possible. Yahoo	thereafter	quickly	confirmed	to	the	DPC that its member services team made contact with the complainant, who provided alternative information that enabled Yahoo to successfully validate identity of the requester and subsequently restore their account access.This case highlights that further direct engagement between the parties during the amicable resolution process can often achieve a swift resolution for data subjects. It further highlights that a proactive approach on the part of data controllers in the early stages of a complaint can often resolve matters and avoid the need to engage in a lengthy complaint handling process. 47Annual Report 2021DPC Policy update: Courts and Decision Making BodiesUnder	Article	55(3)	of	the	GDPR,	the	DPC	is	precluded	from	supervising	the	data	processing	operations of the Court when it is acting in a judicial capacity. Section 157 of the Data Protection Act,	2018	provides	for	the	assignment	of	a	specific	judge	to	act	as	the	data	protection	supervisor	in relation to the processing of personal data, which occurs when the Court is acting in their judicial capacity. Therefore, any data protection concerns that arise under such circumstances must be addressed to the Court.Statutory bodies also engage in various forms of complaint handing, investigative and decision-making functions, such as the Workplace Relations Commission or the Residential Tenancies Board. Ultimately, the DPC remains the supervisory authority for such bodies. An individual who is concerned about the processing of their personal data by a statutory body should raise those data	protection	concerns	with	that	statutory	body	in	the	first	instance	with	recourse	to	the	DPC	thereafter,	should	the	complainant	remain	dissatisfied.	The	DPC’s	general	policy	approach	to	cases such as these, is that it will not examine data protection issues relating to material that is before a statutory body while there is ongoing complaint handling, investigative and/or decision-making process. Such complaints may be handled by the DPC once the statutory process has concluded.	Even	if	the	DPC	makes	a	finding	of	an	infringement	of	the	GDPR,	it	does	not	have	jurisdiction	to	interfere	with	the	ultimate	findings	of	statutory	bodies.This	policy	approach	is	grounded	in	the	DPC’s	Regulatory	Strategy	2022	-2027	and	reflects	the	DPC’s assessment of the most appropriate way to handle complaints of this nature having regard to the risks posed to data subjects by the processing of their personal data by such statutory bodies, weighed against the public interest in ensuring the independence and proper functioning of such statutory bodies and the integrity of their processes. 48DPC Policy update: The DPC’s approach to Domestic CCTVThe	DPC	receives	a	large	volume	of	complaints	each	year	and	a	significant	proportion	of	these	are	from individuals in relation to their neighbours’ domestic CCTV systems.During the course of the examination it generally transpires that there are no data protection concerns, for the most part operators of Domestic CCTV are operating them in accordance with Article	2(2)(c)	of	the	GDPR,	as	they	are	only	being	used	to	monitor	the	operator’s	property	within	their property perimeter, accordingly, they are being used for a purely personal or household activity	(the	personal/household	exemption).	In	the	remainder	of	cases,	the	DPC	works	with	the	operator to try to bring about a position where the CCTV operator comes within the personal/household exemption.What	the	DPC	has	identified	is	that	in	the	vast	majority	of	Domestic	CCTV	complaints	there	is	an	ongoing dispute between both parties such as Right of Way access, alleged harassment, anti-social behaviour or criminal damage, which would be better addressed through mediation or the Courts. Although, the DPC recognises how stressful it is for individuals to live in an environment where there are ongoing issues with their neighbours, these are not issues that the DPC can examine or comment on. The DPC can only examine any alleged infringements of a natural person’s data protection rights.The DPC is obliged to operate a risk-based approach to complaints in accordance with the GDPR	and	in	line	with	the	DPC’s	Regulatory	Strategy	2022	–	2027,	to	use	its	limited	resources	appropriately having regard to the needs of all complainants. The DPC’s general approach to these complaints is: To assess the complaint to determine if there is evidence of the processing of personal data: where	there	is	no	such	evidence	or	where	the	operator	satisfies	the	DPC	that	the	camera	in	question is either not operating or is operating within the personal or household exemption, GDPR does not apply and no further steps are required.	Where	the	case	involves	disputed	rights	of	way	or	land	boundaries,	the	DPC	cannot	make	finding	of facts in relation to such matters so it is not possible to determine if the personal or household exemption applies. In those cases, no further action will be taken by the DPC until the legal dispute is determined by the appropriate authority and if processing continues after that point. Where there is evidence of personal data processing, the DPC will engage with the parties to try to resolve the matter by advising the operator to bring their devices into line with the domestic exemption. Where this is not successful and the circumstances of the case indicate a camera operating that is bound up in other issues between private individuals such as use and access to shared entrances and common areas, anti-social behaviour, allegations of harassment, nuisance, assault, threatened assault or damage to property, the DPC will usually attempt to identify the relevant	data	protection	issue(s)	for	the	parties	and	provide	appropriate	advice. It will be open to an individual to rely on this advice in the context of how they deal with the wider issues in dispute.This is a general approach of the DPC and will be determined on the facts of any given case. However,	since	the	introduction	of	this	approach,	the	DPC	anticipates	a	significant	reduction	in	the	number of repeat complaints from the same individuals, and a reduction in the resources utilised in examining these complaints, thus freeing up the DPC’s resources to focus on complaints about more systemic data protection infringements.7  6,549 valid data breaches were recorded49Annual Report 2021Breaches In 2021, the DPC received 6,616 personal data breach	notifications	under	Article	33	of	the	GDPR. A total of 6,549 valid data breaches were recorded, representing a 2%	decrease	(114)	on	the	numbers reported in 2020. In line with what was reported in previous years since the introduction of GDPR, the highest category of data breaches notified	in	2021	was	in	relation	to	unauthorised	disclosures, accounting for 71% of the total notifications.Of	the	total	6,616	breach	notifications	that	the	DPC received in 2021, in terms of breakdown, 3,677	related	to	the	private	sector,	2,707	to	the	public sector and the remaining 232 came from the voluntary and charity sector.It is noted that a disproportionately large chunk of	breach	notifications	(2,707)	originate	in	public sector organisations in Ireland. The ten organisations with the highest number of breach notifications	recorded	against	them	are	public	sector bodies and banks, with insurance and telecom companies falling among the top twenty.Regarding the number relating to unauthorised disclosures, this is mostly due to poor operational practices and human error, such as inserting the wrong document in an envelope addressed to an unrelated third party, or sending email correspondence to multiple recipients using the ‘To’	or	‘Cc’	fields	instead	of	the	Bcc	field.	The	DPC	has also seen a vast increase in the number of breaches caused by email correspondence issuing to an incorrect recipient due to the message service employed which predicts the recipient’s email	address	based	on	the	first	characters	entered. As regards hard copy correspondence issuing to the wrong party, we are seeing this occurring	particularly	in	the	financial	institutions	and fundamentally it is down to a failure to update data in a timely fashion and customers’ failure to	notify	the	financial	institution	of	a	change	of	address. Annual Report 20217 50Notifications2021 saw the introduction of a revised breach webform which was developed in light of feedback received from data controllers who have had a requirement to engage with the form process. Amongst other things, the form guides users through a number of questions in order to determine whether the breach relates to cross-border processing, as it is clear to the DPC that there is some confusion as to when an organisation meets the criteria to avail itself of the ‘One-Stop-Shop’	(OSS)	mechanism.	For	clarification,	in	order	to	avail	of	the	one-stop-shop mechanism, a multinational organisation must have as a starting point its European headquarters established in one of the EU member states. Where this criteria is met, the organisation may be able to avail of the OSS and elect to deal directly with the supervisory authority of the country where its headquarters are based. This applies even in instances where a breach or complaint	originates	in	a	different	member	state.	Data Breach Notification  by CategoryCharityPrivatePublicVoluntaryTotalDisclosure (unauthorised)32256020121244728Unauthorised access - paper files/documents/records21701388318Processing error - (PD disclosed)2140967245Paper lost or stolen35215113219Online publication - Unintentional 166286200Hacking - Other1107184130Paper lost/stolen - Official documentation 71081116Integrity - unintentional alteration (No PD disclosed) 965 101Unauthorised access - Electronic Devices/Assets23636680Social engineering - Phishing 5611471Hacking - Ransomware15411167Unauthorised access - Online Account 32914251Annual Report 2021The DPC has noted that organisations do not always understand when and how the OSS mechanism applies, resulting in organisations either incorrectly notifying personal data breaches to the DPC, or failing to separately notify breaches to another authority. In order to mitigate this, the new DPC form asks a number of questions aimed at identifying whether the breach relates to cross-border processing of personal data and, if so, whether the DPC is the appropriate supervisory authority to which the organisation must make the	breach	notification.A noteworthy change is the requirement for the controller to outline what technical and/or organisational measures were in place before the breach occurred and what action was taken after the breach occurred in order to mitigate against any risk being realised. This information is vital to allow the DPC to undertake an immediate analysis on the breach which may direct what further mitigation steps, if any, are required to be taken. There is also the opportunity for the controller to upload any supporting documents that it may wish to bring to the attention of the DPC regarding the breach. New strategic approachSince the introduction of the GDPR, the DPC has taken a very hands-on approach to handling every single	breach	notified.	The	DPC	would	conduct	its own risk and impact assessment and engage with the controller on mitigation actions and matters	relating	to	notification	of	data	subjects	in high-risk cases. That practice will cease from the end of 2021. From January 2022, the DPC, regarding	the	notifications	that	data	controllers	are legally obliged to submit, will only provide an acknowledgement of receipt of the submission and will not be issuing recommendations or requesting further information in most cases. It should be noted that the absence of further immediate engagement by the DPC will not indicate	satisfaction	with	the	notification	itself,	nor the assessment contained therein. The DPC	will	continue	to	assess	all	notifications	individually and, in cases where the DPC receives complaints or deems the issues to warrant further information or a formal statutory inquiry, the DPC will proceed in that way. The	DPC	will	no	longer	offer	guidance	to	a	controller when a breach arises, in recognition of the extensive guidance already in existence and the assistance already provided by the DPC to controllers in acclimatising to their breach	notification	responsibilities	over	the	last	three years. The focus will be on prioritising enforcement cases instead.ePrivacy BreachesThe DPC received a total of 38 valid data-breach notifications	under	the	ePrivacy	Regulations	(S.I.	No.	336	of	2011),	which	accounted	for	just	under 1%	of	total	valid	cases	notified	for	the	year.	The	DPC	expects	the	number	of	breaches	notified	under this regime to increase due to changes in ePrivacy legislation. Much of the existing Irish telecoms legal framework adopted in 2011, which supplemented the underlying Communications Regulation Acts 2002 to 2017, is due to be replaced upon Ireland’s implementation of the new EU Electronic Communications Code (the Code).	A	significant	change	in	relation	to	the	Directive	(EU)	2018/1972	(the	“Recast	European	Electronic	Communications	Code”)	amended	a	number	of	definitions	including	the	definition	of	“electronic communications service”, such that certain services such as “over-the top” services are now	brought	within	the	scope	of	that	definition	–	this	will	include	services	such	as	messaging	services. As a result, providers of a wider range of services that were required to notify personal data breaches to the DPC under Article 33 of the GDPR will have to notify the DPC of such breaches under the	ePrivacy	regime	–	i.e.	SI	336	of	2011.Law Enforcement Directive BreachesThe DPC also received 51	breach	notifications	in	relation	to	the	LED,	(Directive	(EU)	2016/680),	which has been transposed into Irish law, by certain parts of the Data Protection Act 2018.Case Study 2052Annual Report 2021Case Studies Repeated similar breachesOver a period of 12 months, the DPC received notifications of a series of similar breaches from a data controller involved in financial matters. The controller sold services through a nationwide retail network owned and operated by a third party, which acted as its processor. The breaches occurred when existing customers of the controller made purchases at the processor’s outlets, but used an address different from the address they had previously registered with the controller. Recent changes to the controller’s customer database systems had not been fully coordinated with those for sales, resulting in sales documents containing personal data being sent to customers’ old addresses rather than their new ones. The controller had instructed the processor not to accept purchase requests until changes of address had been registered, but some counter staff did not consistently follow the correct procedures.When	the	DPC	flagged	the	pattern	of	breaches, the controller agreed that there was a systemic problem that required attention by its senior management. While a technical solution was being designed and tested, the controller and processor adopted interim measures including	re-training	of	staff,	increased	supervision, and a notice that appeared on	screens	used	by	processor	staff	when	effecting	sales,	prompting	them	to	confirm	that the customer’s current registered address was correct. The controller implemented the changes in its IT systems to prevent sales documents being sent to incorrect customer addresses, and the recurring breaches ceased.This case demonstrates how the DPC monitors	breaches	notified	under	Article	33	of the GDPR to identify systemic problems, whether in individual controllers, industry types or economic sectors. It also shows how changes intended to improve information systems	can	have	unforeseen	side-effects	that	adversely	affect	data	subjects	and	the	controller. Lastly, it highlights that controllers must monitor the performance of processing agreements to ensure that processors clearly understand and follow procedures for processing personal data.Case Study 2153Annual Report 2021Unauthorised disclosure arising from video conferencingAn educational institute utilised a video conferencing application to allow students to deliver presentations to lecturers while pandemic restrictions prevented in-person meetings. To enable sharing with external examiners, which is a requirement, the presentations were recorded. All participants were aware of this arrangement, though it was not intended that students would have access to recordings of their presentations.Two groups of students made presentations to lecturers in separate sessions. After each session, the lecturers discussed the students’ work among themselves. These discussions were also recorded, though the intention was to edit them out before sharing the recordings with external examiners. It was wrongly believed that saved recordings were accessible only to the lecturers. In fact, all invited participants, including the students who presented, had access to recordings of their sessions and were automatically emailed a	link	to	the	relevant	file	on	the	institution’s	server. As a result, students gained access to lecturers’ discussion of other students’ work, which included personal remarks about some of the students. These were accessed by several students. In the following days, excerpts were circulated on messaging applications and social media. The organisation reported the breach to the DPC,	which	confirmed	that	the	recordings	accessible to students had been deleted, and clarified	the	steps	taken	by	the	organisation	to have the excerpts removed from the social media to which they had been posted. The DPC concluded its assessment of the breach with comprehensive recommendations on the use of IT equipment including video conferencing, and on measures to ensure that staff	and	students	understood	and	complied	with relevant data protection policies.This case highlights the potential risks posed by the use of video conferencing and similar technologies. Data controllers should ensure that persons who operate these applications are familiar with how they work and ensure that they do so in compliance with data protection law. Controllers should ensure that data protection policies and procedures fully reflect	the	practices	and	technologies	that	they use when processing personal data.Case Study 2254Annual Report 2021Disclosure due to misdirected emailA notification was received from a statutory body whose functions include the investigation of complaints concerning experts’ professional conduct, training or competence. The personal data breach occurred when a letter concerning a complaint against a specialist was attached to an email and sent to an incorrect address. The attachment contained personal data of several persons, including health data, and was encrypted. However, the password for the encrypted letter was issued in a separate email to the same incorrect address.   The nature of the personal data and the context all indicated a high risk to data subjects.	The	DPC	accordingly	confirmed	that	all	affected	persons	had	been	notified	of the breach, the risks and measures being taken in response to them, as required by Article 34 of the GDPR. The DPC reminded the organisation of its continuing obligation to secure personal data that was accidentally disclosed, and of the importance of ensuring security when emailing personal data. The statutory body has undertaken a review of all its data protection processes, policies and procedures. Misaddressed emails are one of the most common causes of breaches reported to the DPC. Encryption is a valuable tool that can help to protect against accidental disclosures. However, it is advisable to use a	separate	medium	–	such	as	a	telephone	call	or	SMS	message	–	to	send	the	password, as a single mistake in an email address	can	negate	the	benefits.Case Study 2355Annual Report 2021Inappropriate disposal of materials by an educational institutionA health science focused university notified the DPC of a breach arising from inappropriate disposal of materials containing personal data. Due to pandemic restrictions, an employee worked from home on a recruitment project. The employee worked on printed copies of a number of job applications and accompanying CVs. The organisation had instructed employees working from home to minimise printing and to destroy documents before disposal. However, the employee placed the recruitment documents intact into a domestic recycling bin. High winds caused contents of the bin, including the recruitment documents, to be dispersed.In concluding its examination of the breach, the DPC made a number of recommendations. These focused not just on the work practices of employees, but most importantly on the technical and organisational measures of the controller. While	it	is	important	for	staff	to	understand	and implement good data protection practices, it is the responsibility of the controller to ensure that they do so and have the	means	–	including,	where	appropriate,	devices such as shredders - of delivering the required standard of protection.This case also illustrates how working from home can change people’s work environment or habits in ways that can pose risks to personal	data.	Office	facilities,	such	as	confidential	shredding,	secure	printing	or	even	private	rooms	for	discussions	–	are	not always available or feasible at home. As the number of people working remotely increases, controllers must review and adapt their resources, policies and procedures to ensure that they are adequate for the risks posed and the environment in which they occur.Case Study 24Case Study 2556Annual Report 2021Email addresses disclosed via group mailThe DPC received a breach notification from a charity that supports people with intellectual disabilities. The breach occurred when an email newsletter was addressed to recipients using the CC field rather than the BCC field. The result was that the email addresses of all recipients were disclosed to those who read the email. This is a common type of personal data breach that is often the result of simple human error and that usually poses low risks. While the risks posed in this instance may not have been significant, further inquiries and an analysis of previous submissions to the DPC indicated poor awareness of data protection issues and responsibilities among the charity’s staff and volunteers.   Following engagement with the DPC, the organisation introduced training on data protection	for	staff	and	volunteers,	and	moved to create a new management role with responsibility for data protection compliance across the organisation.Charities frequently process personal data of vulnerable persons, often including special category data such as information concerning health. Data protection is a fundamental right in the European Union and protecting the rights of vulnerable persons requires care, planning and careful organisational measures. The	hard	work	and	goodwill	of	staff	and	volunteers must be matched by appropriate management and compliance resources to ensure the protection of personal data rights.Social Engineering attackA medium-sized law firm reported that it was the victim of a social engineering attack. A staff member opened an email from a malicious third party that secretly installed malware on their computer. The malware enabled monitoring email communications and permitted the bad actor to defraud a client of a sum of money. The firm reported the breach to the DPC.   Through	its	DPC	engagement	with	the	firm,	the	DPC	established	that	the	firm	used	a	widely used cloud email service which was managed by a contractor. Basic security settings such as strong passwords were not properly enforced and multi-factor authentication was not implemented. Upon becoming	aware	of	the	incident,	the	firm	immediately commissioned a full investigation to establish the root cause and the extent of the breach. Based	on	the	findings	of	the	investigation,	the	firm	responded	promptly	and	implemented	further technical security measures as well as additional cyber security and data protection training	to	all	staff.	The	DPC	requested	that	updates be provided on the implementation of appropriate organisational and technical security measures to prevent a reoccurrence of a similar breach.This case demonstrates in stark terms that an organisation cannot assume that it has adequate measures in place simply because it uses an established service provider for functions such as email, or engages a third party to manage applications. Controllers and processors must still ensure that they have security measures that are appropriate to any risk that may be posed to the personal data for which they are responsible.8 57Annual Report 2021Inquiries Statutory Inquiries by the DPCUnder the Data Protection Act 2018, the DPC may conduct	two	different	types	of	statutory	inquiry	under Section 110 in order to establish whether an infringement of the GDPR or the 2018 Act has occurred: a complaint-based inquiry; or an inquiry of the DPC’s “own volition”. The objective of any inquiry is to: establish the facts as they apply to the matters under investigation; apply the facts as found to the provisions of the GDPR and/or 2018 Act as applicable in order to analyse whether an infringement of the	GDPR	and/or	2018	Act	has	been	identified; make a formal decision of the DPC in relation to whether or not there is an infringement; and	where	an	infringement	has	been	identified,	make a formal decision on whether or not to exercise a corrective power, and if so, which corrective power7.On 31 December 2021, the DPC had 81 statutory inquiries on hand, including 30 cross-border inquiries. 7	Corrective	powers	include	imposing	an	administrative	fine	(not	applicable	for	infringements	of	the	LED),	issuing	a	warning,	a	reprimand,	a	temporary	or	definitive	ban	on	processing	or	a	suspension	of	international	data	transfers	or	a	direction	to	bring processing into compliance, amongst others.Annual Report 20218 58Inquiries where a significant sanction or corrective measure was applied in 2021Irish Credit Bureau (March 2021): This decision concerned a personal data breach that occurred when the Irish Credit Bureau implemented a code change to its database which contained a technical error, resulting in the ICB database inaccurately updating the records of 15,120 closed accounts. The decision found that the ICB infringed Article 25(1)	of	the	GDPR	by	failing	to	implement	appropriate technical and organisational measures designed to implement the principle of accuracy	in	an	effective	manner	and	to	integrate	the necessary safeguards into the processing in order to meet the requirements of the GDPR and protect the rights of data subjects. The decision also	found	that	the	ICB	infringed	Article	5(2)	and	24(1)	of	the	GDPR	by	failing	to	demonstrate	compliance with its obligation, pursuant to Article 25(1)	of	the	GDPR,	to	undertake	appropriate	testing of proposed changes to its database. The	decision	imposed	an	administrative	fine	on	the	ICB	in	the	amount	of	€90,000	in	respect	of the infringements and issued the ICB with a reprimand in respect of the infringements.MOVE Ireland (August 2021): In August 2021, the DPC issued a decision to MOVE Ireland (MOVE)	regarding	a	personal	data	breach	that	MOVE	notified	to	the	DPC,	which	concerned	the loss of eighteen SD Cards that may have contained recordings of group sessions of MOVE’s programme where participants discuss their behaviour and attitudes with regard to domestic violence with a facilitator. The decision found that	MOVE	infringed	Articles	5(1)(f)	and	32(1)	of	the GDPR by failing to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk presented by its processing by means of recording group sessions on SD Cards containing participants’ and facilitators’ personal data and imposed an administrative	fine	on	MOVE	in	the	amount	of	€1,500	in	respect	of	the	infringements.Limerick City and County Council (December 2021): The DPC issued a decision to Limerick City and County Council considering a broad range of issues pertaining to surveillance technologies deployed by the Council. The decision made findings	on	over	40	issues,	including	that	certain	CCTV systems operated by Limerick City and County Council were unlawful and that the Council infringed Article 15 of the GDPR by rejecting subject access requests in respect of CCTV cameras	used	for	traffic	management	purposes.	The decision imposed a temporary ban on the Council’s processing of personal data in respect of certain CCTV cameras. The decision also ordered the Council to bring its processing into compliance by	taking	specified	action	and	reprimanded	the	Council in respect of the infringements, and imposed	an	administrative	fine	in	the	amount	of	€110,000.The Teaching Council (December 2021): The DPC issued a decision to the Teaching Council (the Council)	regarding	a	personal	data	breach	notified	by the Council to the DPC on 9 March 2020. The personal data breach occurred when a phishing email	was	accessed	by	two	staff	members	of	the Council, allowing then for the creation of an auto-forward rule from their email accounts to a malicious email account. The decision found that the	Council	infringed	Article	5(1)	and	Article	32(1)	of the GDPR by failing to process personal data in a manner that ensured the appropriate security of the personal data using appropriate technical and organisational measures. The decision also found	that	the	Council	infringed	Article	33(1)	of the GDPR by failing to notify the DPC of the personal data breach when it ought to have been aware of them. The decision imposed an administrative	fine	on	the	Council	in	the	amount	of	€60,000,	reprimanded	the	Council	and	ordered	the Council to bring its processing operations into	compliance	with	Articles	5(1)(f)	and	32(1)	of	the GDPR by implementing appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk.Domestic Inquiries 2021 59Annual Report 2021Inquires that have gone to  draft decision in 2021The Department of Health: The DPC commenced this Inquiry following RTE’s Prime Time programme in March 2021 regarding the processing by the Department of Health of the personal data of children with autism who were involved in legal actions against the State. The DPC issued its Draft Decision in December 2021.The Personal Injuries Assessment Board: This Inquiry examines the Personal Injuries Assessment Board’s compliance with GDPR obligations in relation to a personal data breach notified	which	occurred	through	the	loss	of	a	USB	storage device. This Inquiry is related to the below Inquiry concerning BEO Solutions. The DPC issued its Draft Decision in November 2021.BEO Solutions: This Inquiry examines BEO Solution’s compliance with GDPR obligations in relation	to	a	personal	data	breach	notified	which	occurred through the loss of a USB storage device. The DPC issued its Draft Decision in November 2021.Bank of Ireland: This Inquiry commenced in response to the large number of data breaches notified	to	the	DPC	during	the	period	since	25	May	2018 regarding information provided by Bank of Ireland to the Central Credit Register. The DPC issued its Draft Decision in January 2022.Slane Credit Union: This Inquiry commenced in	response	to	a	breach	notified	to	the	DPC	in	relation to an unauthorised disclosure. The DPC issued its Draft Decision in December 2021.Inquiries where submission on a statement of issues or inquiry report were invited from the relevant parties during 2021Kildare County Council: This Inquiry considers a broad range of issues pertaining to surveillance technologies deployed the Council.Bank of Ireland 365: This Inquiry examines a potential unauthorised disclosure of personal data	in	how	BOI	provisioned	certain	Banking	365	customers regarding potential incidents involving the	bank	misconfiguring	a	new	customer’s	365	profile	such	that	a	customer	could	inadvertently	access the personal data and current account of a different	customer.Allianz: The DPC commenced this Inquiry following	49	personal	data	breaches	notified	by	Allianz between 25 June 2020 and 31 December 2020. This Inquiry examines the appropriateness of Allianz’s technical and organisational measures to ensure the security and accuracy of its personal data processing.Centric Health: The DPC commenced this Inquiry following a ransomware attack potentially affecting	patient	data	held	on	Centric’s	patient	appointment system.Virtue Eldercare: The DPC commenced this Inquiry following a personal data breach whereby an unknown actor potentially gained access to an email account and set up mail forwarding rules to an external account.60Inquiries where a Final  Decision issued in 2021WhatsApp Ireland Limited (WhatsApp): Transparency for users and non-usersThis inquiry concerned WhatsApp’s compliance with its transparency obligations in respect of both	users	and	non-users.	In	its	final	decision	of	20	August	2021,	the	DPC	imposed	a	fine	of	€225	million.	In	addition,	the	DPC	also	imposed	a reprimand along with an order directing WhatsApp to bring its processing into compliance by	taking	a	range	of	specified	remedial	actions.	This	final	decision	is	now	subject	to	litigation	and a more detailed update in respect of these proceedings can be found at the end of the chapter	on	Significant	Sanctions	and	Corrective	Measures.Inquiries where the co-decision making procedure under Article 60 GDPR commenced and remained ongoing in 2021Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited):  12 data breachesThis inquiry concerns an examination of the extent to which Facebook complied with its obligations	under	Articles	5(1)(f),	5(2),	24	and	32	GDPR in the context of a series of 12 personal data	breaches	that	it	notified	to	the	DPC	on	dates	between 7 June 2018 and 4 December 2018. The DPC circulated its draft decision in the matter to the other EU supervisory authorities concerned on 18 August 2021, for the purpose of the co-decision-making	process	outlined	in	Article	60	GDPR. In response, the supervisory authorities of Poland and Hamburg raised objections. As of the end of 2021, the DPC was engaging with those supervisory authorities in an endeavour to reach consensus on the issues arising in the context of their objections.Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited): processing of children’s data via the Instagram service operated by FacebookThis inquiry concerns the processing of certain personal data of children by Facebook in the context of the Instagram social networking service, in particular relating to the operation by children of “business accounts” and also certain default settings which were applied to children’s accounts. A draft decision in this Inquiry was sent to other concerned supervisory authorities on 3 December 2021 for the purpose of the co-decision-making process	outlined	in	Article	60	GDPR.	As	of	the	end of 2021 the DPC was awaiting receipt of any comments or objections from other supervisory authorities (which are required to be raised within 1	month)	in	relation	to	the	draft	decision.Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited): complaint received from NOYB concerning the Facebook serviceThis complaint based inquiry concerns the legal basis on which Facebook relies to process the personal data of users of its platform and certain issues related to transparency information provided by Facebook to its users. A draft decision in this Inquiry was sent to other concerned supervisory	authorities	on	6	October	2021	for	the purpose of the co-decision-making process outlined	in	Article	60	GDPR.	As	of	the	end	of	2021,	the	Article	60	process	was	underway	at	EDPB	level,	with a number of sets of objections having been received from other supervisory authorities. Cross-Border Inquiries 2021 61Annual Report 2021Inquiries where submissions on a preliminary draft decision were invited from the relevant parties during 2021Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited): complaint received from NOYB concerning the Instagram service operated by Facebook This complaint based inquiry concerns the legal basis on which Facebook relies to process the personal data of users of its Instagram platform and certain issues related to transparency information which is provided to Instagram users. A	final	inquiry	report	was	provided	to	the	parties	by the DPC investigator on 18 January 2021. Thereafter, the decision maker in the DPC issued a preliminary draft decision to the parties for their submissions on it in December 2021.WhatsApp Ireland Limited (WhatsApp): complaint received from NOYBThis complaint based inquiry concerns the legal basis on which WhatsApp relies to process the personal data of users and certain issues related to transparency information which is provided to	WhatsApp	users.	A	final	inquiry	report	was	provided to the parties by the DPC investigator on 18 January 2021. Thereafter, the decision maker in the DPC issued a preliminary draft decision in December 2021 to the parties for their submissions.Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited): own volition inquiry and complaint based inquiry (complainant: Max Schrems) concerning the lawfulness of Facebook’s data transfers to the United States These inquiries are concerned with examining the lawfulness of data transfers from the EU to the US carried out by Facebook. The own volition inquiry relates to such data transfers generally as they apply to the personal data of Facebook users while the complaint based inquiry is concerned with a complaint made by Mr Max Schrems against Facebook. A preliminary draft decision was issued to Facebook in August 2020 by way of the commencement of the own volition inquiry. A stay	(suspension)	was	placed	on	that	inquiry	in	September 2020 in the context of separate judicial review proceedings taken by each of Facebook and Mr Schrems against the DPC. Following the conclusion of both judicial review actions, the own volition inquiry resumed in May 2021 and a separate complaint-based inquiry concerning Mr Schrems’ complaint was also commenced. The inquiries are proceeding in tandem with each other with voluminous submissions having been received in respect of each inquiry during the course of 2021.(See also ‘Judgments delivered in 2021’ in the Litigation chapter for a summary of the two sets of proceedings and their outcomes; see also the detailed summary of the High Court judgment delivered in May 2021 in the judicial review action taken against the DPC by Facebook in Appendix 3 at	the	back	of	this	report).Google Ireland Limited (Google): Location data inquiryThe DPC received a number of complaints from various Consumer Organisations across the EU, in which concerns were raised with regard to Google’s processing of location data. The issues raised within the concerns related to the legality of Google’s processing of location data and the transparency surrounding that processing. As such the DPC commenced an own-volition Statutory Inquiry, with respect to Google Ireland Limited, pursuant to Section 110 of the Data Protection 2018 and in accordance with the co-operation	mechanism	outlined	under	Article	60	of	the GDPR. The Inquiry set out to establish whether Google has a valid legal basis for processing the location data of its users and whether it meets its obligations as a data controller with regard to transparency. The DPC’s preliminary draft decision was provided to Google in December 2021 for its submissions.62Inquiries where submission on a statement of issues or inquiry report were invited from the relevant parties during 2021Google Ireland Limited (Google): real time bidding (adtech) systemThis inquiry concerns processing carried out by Google in the context of the operation of its proprietary “Authorised Buyers” real time bidding advertising technology system. It is examining Google’s compliance with its obligations as a controller including in relation to the legal basis relied on by Google for the processing undertaken by it, its collection and retention of personal data as well as transparency information provided to data subjects. A Statement of Issues setting out the relevant factual matters and issues for determination was provided to Google for its submissions in December 2021. Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited): data scraping In April 2021, multiple media reports highlighted that a collated dataset of Facebook user personal data had been made available online pertaining to the personal data of approximately 533 million Facebook users worldwide. On foot of this, an inquiry was commenced in April 2021 and is currently ongoing. A Statement of Issues was provided to Facebook in December 2021 for its submissions.Quantcast Ireland Limited (Quantcast):  adtech servicesThis inquiry concerns the processing of personal data by Quantcast in the context of services provided by it to advertising clients to enable the delivery of targeted advertising. The inquiry is examining the legal bases relied on by Quantcast for its processing of personal data for the purposes	of	profiling	and	targeted	advertising	activities, whether its retention of personal data complies with data minimisation and storage limitation obligations and whether it complies its transparency obligations towards data subjects. A Statement of Issues setting out the relevant factual matters and issues for determination was issued to Quantcast in December 2021 for its submissions.LinkedIn Ireland Unlimited Company (LinkedIn): complaint by La Quadrature du Net This inquiry concerns a complaint made by La Quadrature du Net in relation to the lawfulness of the processing of personal data of users of the LinkedIn service carried out by LinkedIn for targeted advertising and/or behavioural analysis. A Statement of Issues setting out the relevant factual matters and issues for determination was provided to LinkedIn in July 2021 and submissions on that document were subsequently received. As of the end of 2021, preparation of the preliminary draft decision was underway.Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited): complaint by La Quadrature du Net This inquiry concerns a complaint made by La Quadrature du Net in relation to the lawfulness of the processing of personal data of users of the Facebook service for targeted advertising and/or behavioural analysis. A draft inquiry report was provided to Facebook in August 2021 and submissions were subsequently received on that document. As of the end of 2021, the preparation of	the	finalised	inquiry	report	was	underway.	Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited): breach notification issuesThis inquiry concerns Facebook’s compliance with	the	breach	notification	obligations	arising	under Article 33 of the GDPR in connection with the	notification	to	the	DPC	of	a	data	breach	which	occurred	in	September	2018	and	affected	Facebook user tokens. A draft inquiry report was provided to Facebook in May 2021 and submissions were subsequently received on that document. As of the end of 2021, the preparation of	the	finalised	inquiry	report	was	underway.	Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited): passwords stored in plain textThis inquiry concerns whether Facebook complied with its obligations under the GDPR, in particular in relation to security of processing, in connection with a security incident which occurred in early 2019 where user passwords were inadvertently stored in plaintext on Facebook’s internal systems. 63Annual Report 2021A draft inquiry report was provided to Facebook in June 2021 and submissions were subsequently received on that document. As of the end of 2021, the	preparation	of	the	finalised	inquiry	report	was	underway.Apple Distribution International (Apple): complaint by La Quadrature du NetThis inquiry concerns a complaint made by La Quadrature du Net in relation to the lawfulness of the processing of personal data of users of the Apple service for targeted advertising in connection	with	the	unique	Apple	“Identifier	for	Advertising”. A draft inquiry report was provided to Apple for its submissions in August 2021 and submissions were subsequently received on that document.	Thereafter	a	final	inquiry	report	was	completed and provided to Apple and to the DPC decision maker in December 2021. As of the end of 2021, the inquiry has progressed to the decision-making stage.Twitter International Limited (Twitter): 5 breachesThis inquiry concerns an examination of the extent to which Twitter complied with its obligations under the GDPR with respect to a number	of	personal	data	breaches	it	notified	to	the DPC between August and October 2018. This inquiry is examining Twitter’s compliance with Articles 5, 2 4, 25, 32, and 33 in the context of the occurrence of those breaches. The Inquiry Report was completed and forwarded to the DPC decision maker in November 2021. As of the end of 2021, the inquiry has progressed to the decision-making stage.Yahoo (formerly Oath EMEA Ltd/Verizon Media EMEA Ltd) (Yahoo): TransparencyThis inquiry is concerned with examining Yahoo’s compliance with the requirements to provide transparent information to data subjects under the provisions of Articles 12-14 GDPR. The inquiry has involved extensive examination of the user-facing information provided on Yahoo’s online properties, and analysis of all the privacy disclosures, to establish whether there has been any infringement of those important transparency requirements. A Statement of Issues setting out the relevant factual matters and issues for determination was provided to Yahoo for its submissions in September 2021 and submissions were subsequently received on that document. As of the end of 2021, the preparation of a preliminary draft decision was underway. MTCH Technology Services Limited (MTCH): Tinder platformThe DPC commenced an own-volition inquiry, with respect to MTCH, following the receipt of a number of similar complaints from individuals both in Ireland and across the EU. The issues identified	in	the	complaints	related	to	MTCH’s	processing of users’ personal data in connection with the Tinder platform, transparency information relating to that processing, and the company’s compliance with its obligations arising from the exercise of data subject rights. The inquiry is examining whether MTCH has a legal basis for the ongoing processing of its users’ personal data and whether it meets its obligations as a data controller with regard to transparency information and in responding to data subject rights requests. A Statement of Issues setting out the relevant factual matters and issues for determination was provided to MTCH for its submissions in October 2021 and submissions were subsequently received on that document. As of the end of 2021, a  preliminary draft decision was under preparation. Facebook Ireland Limited (Facebook) (now known as Meta Platforms Ireland Limited): Personal Data Breaches affecting Facebook User TokensThis Inquiry concerns an examination of whether Facebook has discharged its GDPR obligations to implement organisational and technical measures and data protection by design and default obligations to secure and safeguard the personal data of its users in connection with a data breach which	occurred	in	September	2018	and	affected	Facebook user tokens. An Inquiry report issued to the controller in November 2021 for submissions. 64Inquiries commenced/at investigative stage during 2021Tiktok Technology Limited (Tiktok):  measures in relation to users under age 18This inquiry concerns TikTok’s compliance with the GDPR’s data protection by design and default requirements as they relate to the processing of personal data in the context of platform settings for	users	under	age	18	and	age	verification	measures for persons under 13. This inquiry is also examining whether TikTok has complied with the GDPR’s transparency obligations in the context of the processing of personal data of users under age 18. The inquiry was commenced in September 2021 and as of the end of 2021 the investigative stage of the inquiry was ongoing.Tiktok Technology Limited (Tiktok):  data transfers from the EU to China This inquiry concerns transfers by Tiktok of the personal data of users of its platform from the EU to China and whether Tiktok is complying with requirements under Part V of the GDPR in relation to international transfers of personal data to third countries. The inquiry is also examining whether Tiktok is complying with its transparency obligations to users insofar as such data transfers are concerned. The inquiry was commenced in September 2021 and as of the end of 2021 the investigative stage of the inquiry was ongoing.Decisions that have consequences for all European Supervisory AuthoritiesEDPB guidance on the one-stop-shop mechanism (OSS)	is	that	only	EU-based	controllers	may	avail of it. A USA-based controller, for example, targeting services at all EU users may not avail of the OSS unless one of its establishments in the EU itself meets the criteria for main establishment; the USA-based entity cannot itself qualify as the main establishment. Such a controller must deal directly with the individual supervisory authorities for each of the EEA countries where the	organisation	offers	its	services.	Very	many	large multi-nationals do not avail of the One-Stop-Shop and so decisions relating to their processing operations made by a supervisory authority are not subject to the cooperation and consistency mechanism of the GDPR. Where the OSS is in operation, the draft decision of	a	Lead	Supervisory	Authority	(LSA)	must	be	shared with all other Concerned Supervisory Authorities	(CSAs)	where	the	subject	of	the	draft	decision	operates,	via	the	Article	60	process.	In	2021, 11 draft decisions were shared where all 31 EU Supervisory Authorities were considered by the drafting LSA to meet the criteria of Concerned Supervisory Authority. In addition, in 2021, the DPC also shared the finalised WhatsApp decision with all EU Member States as CSAs. The DPC has not raised objections in respect of any of the 7 draft decisions sent to it as CSA in 2021. The graph below illustrates how the draft decisions break down.65Annual Report 2021DPC Ireland Draft Decisions  at Article 60In 2021 the DPC sent forward 4 large-scale draft decisions	–	relating	to	multinational	organisations	with	operations	in	all	EU	member	states	–	where	all 31 European Supervisory Authorities met the threshold to constitute a Concerned Supervisory Authority. In addition, the DPC also shared the finalised WhatsApp decision with all member-states as CSAs.As	part	of	the	Article	60	process,	CSAs	are	afforded	the	opportunity	to	lodge	relevant	and	reasoned objections against a draft decision. The LSA must then acquiesce to an objection or refuse to incorporate it on the basis that it is legally unworkable or runs contrary to an objection lodged by another CSA. Where the LSA is unable to	incorporate	an	objection	for	these	reasons	–	and the relevant CSA is not disposed to withdraw their	objection	–	the	draft	decision	must	then	be	sent	forward	to	Article	65	(Dispute	Resolution).42131Ireland  4 Draft Decisions sent to all CSAsInstagram; Facebook; Facebook (NOYB); Facebook (12 Breaches) WhatsApp** Czech Republic  2 Draft Decisions sent to all CSAsAvast Software; Skoda MotorsPoland  1 Draft Decision sent to all CSAsData Controller 1*The Netherlands  3 Draft Decisions sent to all CSAsData Controller 1*; Data Controller 2*; Data Controller 3*Luxembourg  1 Draft Decision sent to all CSAsAmazon* The National Laws in these member states may prohibit the naming of the data controllers involved. ** The DPC shared the finalised WhatsApp decision in 2021.25 May 2018 – 31 December 2021Of the 8 EU-wide cross-border draft decisions sent forward by the DPC since May 2018 up to year-end 2021: 	two	were	resolved	and	concluded	at	Article	60	stage; 	two	went	forward	to	Article	65	Dispute	Resolution; and  the four remaining have had objections lodged against them The DPC is presently assessing whether in the latter four cases these objections can be incorporated into the draft decision. Where the DPC	is	unable	to	incorporate	an	objection–	and	the relevant CSA is not disposed to withdraw their objection	–	the	remaining	draft	decisions	must	also	be	sent	forward	to	Article	65.	The	table	below	illustrates where objections were lodged in each case:Article 60 Draft Decisions circulated by EU DPAs in 2021 where all DPAs were considered CSAsDPC Decisions as LSATwitterWhatsAppInstagramFacebookFacebook (NOYB)Facebook (12 Breaches)RyanairGroupon AustriaBelgiumBulgariaCroatiaCyprusCzech RepublicDenmarkEDPSEstoniaFinlandFranceGermany*GreeceHungaryIcelandIrelandItalyLatviaLichtensteinLithuaniaLuxembourgMaltaNetherlandsNorwayPolandPortugalRomaniaSlovakiaSloveniaSpainSweden*Germany in this instance denotes the federal DPA and all Lander DPAs.66ObjectedAgreed 9 67Annual Report 2021Significant Sanctions  and Corrective Measures Decisions under the Data Protection Act 2018The DPC decides, on foot of statutory inquiries, whether infringements of data protection legislation have occurred. These statutory inquiries include own volition inquiries and inquiries on foot of complaints. Where infringements are found, the decision-maker also makes a decision as to whether a corrective power should be exercised, and, if so, the corrective power(s)	that	are	to	be	exercised.Where the DPC decides to impose an administrative	fine,	and	if	there	is	no	appeal	against that decision, the DPC must make an application in a summary manner to the Circuit Court	for	confirmation	of	the	decision	to	impose	an	administrative	fine	pursuant	to	Section	143(1)	of	the	Data	Protection	Act	2018.	Section	143(2)	provides	that	the	Circuit	Court	shall	confirm	the	decision unless it sees good reason not to. All	DPC	fines	are	remitted	to	the	Exchequer	on	receipt	in	accordance	with	Section	141(7)	of	the	Data Protection Act 2018.The	DPC	imposed	sanctions	of	fines	and	corrective	measures in the following cases in 2021 OrganisationsDecision IssuedIrish Credit Bureau DAC 23-Mar-21WhatsApp Ireland Ltd28-Jul-21MOVE Ireland 20-Aug-21The Teaching Council  of Ireland02-Dec-21Limerick City  and County Council09-Dec-21Annual Report 20219 68Sanctions imposed by the DPC  in 2021Irish Credit Bureau – March 2021In March 2021, the DPC issued a decision in respect	of	the	Irish	Credit	Bureau	(ICB)	regarding	a personal data breach that the Irish Credit Bureau	had	notified	to	the	DPC.	The	ICB	is	a	credit	reference agency that maintains a database on the performance of credit agreements between financial	institutions	and	borrowers.	The	personal	data breach in question occurred when the ICB implemented a code change to its database that contained a technical error. As a result, between 28 June 2018 and 30 August 2018, the ICB database inaccurately updated the records of 15,120 closed accounts. The ICB subsequently disclosed	1,062	inaccurate	account	records	to	financial	institutions	or	data	subjects	before	rectifying the issue. All of the inaccurate account records	disclosed	to	the	financial	institutions	stated that the accounts had been closed more recently than they actually had been, but none misstated that a balance was outstanding on the relevant account.The DPC found in its decision that the ICB had	infringed	Article	25(1)	of	the	GDPR	by	failing to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures designed to implement the	principle	of	accuracy	in	an	effective	manner	and to integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing in order to meet the requirements of the GDPR and protect the rights of data subjects. The DPC also found that the ICB infringed	Article	5(2)	and	24(1)	of	the	GDPR	by failing to demonstrate compliance with its obligation,	pursuant	to	Article	25(1)	of	the	GDPR,	to undertake appropriate testing of proposed changes to its database.In its decision, the DPC imposed an administrative fine	on	the	ICB	in	the	amount	of	€90,000	in	respect of the infringements and also issued the ICB with a reprimand in respect of the infringements.WhatsApp – August 2021In	August	2021,	the	DPC	imposed	a	fine	of	€225	million on WhatsApp, arising out of an Inquiry into WhatsApp’s provision of information, and the transparency of that information, to both users and non-users of WhatsApp’s service.In addition to the imposition of an administrative fine,	the	DPC	also	imposed	a	reprimand	along	with an order for WhatsApp to bring its processing into	compliance	by	taking	a	range	of	specified	remedial actions.A more extensive update on the DPC’s September 2021 decision in respect of WhatsApp can be found at the end of this chapter.MOVE Ireland – August 2021In August 2021, the DPC issued a decision in respect	of	MOVE	Ireland	(MOVE)	regarding	a	personal	data	breach	that	MOVE	had	notified	to the DPC. MOVE is a registered charity, which works in the area of domestic violence, with a primary aim of supporting the safety and wellbeing of women and their children who are experiencing, or have experienced violence/abuse in an intimate relationship. MOVE does this by facilitating male participants in weekly group sessions with a facilitator encouraging them to take responsibility for their violence and to change their attitude and behaviour. The personal data breach in question concerned the loss of eighteen SD Cards that may have contained recordings of group sessions of MOVE’s programme where participants discuss their behaviour and attitudes with regard to domestic violence with a facilitator. Whilst the recording of group sessions focused on the delivery of sessions by the facilitators, and it	could	not	be	established	definitively	by	MOVE,	some of the participants may have been seen and heard in the recordings; furthermore the personal data on the SD Cards may have included participants’ disclosure of behaviours, feelings and attitudes towards current or ex partners, other family members and friends, who may have been named by the participants. MOVE informed the DPC	that	80	to	120	men	may	have	been	affected	by this personal data breach and, at least, one facilitator per each recorded session.69Annual Report 2021In its decision, the DPC found that MOVE had infringed	Articles	5(1)(f)	and	32(1)	of	the	GDPR	by failing to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk presented by its processing by means of recording group sessions on SD Cards containing participants’ and facilitators’ personal data. The DPC imposed an administrative	fine	on	MOVE	in	the	amount	of	€1,500	in	respect	of	the	infringements.Limerick City and County Council  - December 2021In December 2021, the DPC issued a decision in respect of Limerick City and County Council (the	Council)	in	one	of	a	number	of	own-volition	inquiries it has undertaken concerning local authorities. These inquiries consider a broad range of issues pertaining to surveillance technologies deployed by State authorities. The inquiry in this case was conducted initially by means	of	an	audit	under	Section	136	of	the	Data	Protection Act 2018.In its decision, the DPC found that certain CCTV systems operated by Limerick City and County Council were unlawful. In reaching this conclusion, the DPC carried out a detailed analysis of the legal bases put forward by the Council for personal data processing involving its use of CCTV	cameras	for	traffic	management	purposes.	The DPC found that these legal bases failed to meet the requirements of clarity, precision and foreseeability and that other certain CCTV systems for the purpose of the deterrence, prevention, detection	and	prosecution	of	offences	were	unlawful in the absence of authorisation from the Garda Commissioner under Section 38 of An Garda Síochána Act 2005.In	its	decision,	the	DPC	also	made	specific	findings	on	over	40	issues,	which	included	findings	of	infringement	of	the	GDPR	in	relation	to the Council’s use of automatic number plate recognition technology and drones in public places which were used for the purposes of prosecuting crime or other purposes. In addition, the DPC found that the Council had infringed Article 15 of the GDPR by rejecting subject access requests in respect of CCTV cameras used for traffic	management	purposes,	that	it	did	not	fulfil	its	transparency	obligations	under	Article	13	by failing to erect signage in respect of its CCTV processing operations, and that it had infringed Article 12 of the GDPR by failing to make its CCTV Policy more easily accessible and transparent.The DPC in its decision imposed a temporary ban on the Council’s processing of personal data in respect of certain CCTV cameras and ordered the Council to bring its processing into compliance by	taking	specified	actions.	The	Council	was	also reprimanded by the DPC in respect of the infringements,	and	an	administrative	fine	in	the	amount	of	€110,000	was	imposed.The Teaching Council - December 2021In December 2021, the DPC issued a decision in	respect	of	the	Teaching	Council	(the	Council)	regarding a personal data breach which had been notified	by	the	Council	to	the	DPC	on	9	March	2020. The personal data breach in question had occurred when a phishing email was accessed by two	staff	members	of	the	Council,	which	enabled	the creation of an auto-forward rule from their email accounts to a malicious email account. As a	result,	between	17	February	2020	and	6	March	2020 when the auto-forward rule was discovered, 323 emails were forwarded to the unauthorised external email address. The emails contained the personal data of 9,735 data subjects and the sensitive personal data of one data subject.In its decision, the DPC found that the Council had infringed	Article	5(1)	and	Article	32(1)	of	the	GDPR	between 25 May 2018, when the GDPR came into application, and the dates of the personal data breaches, by failing to process personal data in a manner that ensured the appropriate security of the personal data in question, using appropriate technical and organisational measures. The DPC also found that the Council had infringed Article 33(1)	of	the	GDPR	by	failing	to	notify	the	DPC	of	the personal data breach when it ought to have been aware of it.The DPC in its decision imposed an administrative fine	on	the	Council	in	the	amount	of	€60,000,	reprimanded the Council and ordered the Council to bring its processing operations into compliance	with	Articles	5(1)(f)	and	32(1)	of	the	GDPR by implementing appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk.70The confirmation and collection of administrative fines under the Data Protection Act 2018The DPC decides, on foot of statutory inquiries conducted under the Data Protection Act 2018, whether or not infringements of the GDPR and/or the Data Protection Act 2018 have occurred. These statutory inquiries include own volition inquiries and inquiries in respect of complaints. Where infringements are found, the decision-maker also makes a decision as to whether a corrective power	should	be	exercised,	and,	if	so,	the	specific	corrective	power(s)	that	are	to	be	exercised.	Where the DPC decides to impose an administrative	fine,	and	if	there	is	no	appeal	against that decision, the DPC must make an application in a summary manner to the Circuit Court	for	confirmation	of	its	decision	to	impose	an	administrative	fine,	pursuant	to	Section	143(1)	of	the	Data	Protection	Act	2018.	Section	143(2)	provides	that	the	Circuit	Court	shall	confirm	the	DPC’s decision unless it sees good reason not to. In circumstances where the Circuit Court has confirmed	the	DPC’s	decision,	the	DPC	then	issues the controller or processor concerned with a formal notice requiring payment pursuant to Section	141(5)	of	the	Data	Protection	Act	2018.	The controller or processor then has 28 days to make	the	payment.	All	DPC	fines	are	required	to be remitted to the Exchequer on receipt in accordance	with	Section	141(7)	of	the	Data	Protection Act 2018. Therefore, upon receipt of the	monies	in	respect	of	a	fine,	the	DPC	remits	the	full	amount	to	the	Exchequer	and	notifies	the	Department of Public Expenditure and Reform.In 2021, applications made by the DPC to confirm	seven	administrative	fines	imposed	on	organisations pursuant to DPC decisions were heard before the Circuit Court. In each case, the Court	made	an	order	confirming	the	decision	to	impose	the	fine.	The	DPC	has	collected	each	of	those	fines	and	has	remitted	them	to	the	Exchequer.	This	total	figure	for	2021	was	€800,000.	The	details	of	those	confirmation	applications are set out below.Date of application to Court for confirmation of fineControllerDate of DPC decision imposing fineAmount of the fine23 April 2021Tusla Child and Family Agency12 August 2020€50,00023 April 2021Tusla Child and Family Agency12 August 2020€35,00026 April 2021Tusla Child and Family Agency21 May 2020€40,00026 April 2021The Health Service Executive18 August 2020€65,00018 October 2021University College Dublin17 December 2020€70,00018 October 2021Twitter International Company9 December 2020€450,0005 November 2021The Irish Credit Bureau DAC23 March 2021€90,00071Annual Report 2021Litigation arising from the DPC’s investigation into the processing of personal data in connection with the Public Services CardDecember 2021 saw the resolution of legal proceedings commenced in December 2019 by the (now)	Department	of	Social	Protection	(previously	the	Department	of	Employment	Affairs	and	Social	Protection,	referred	to	here	as	the	D/SP)	in	which the D/SP appealed against an Enforcement Notice issued by the DPC in relation to the D/SP’s processing of personal data in connection with the	issuing	of	Public	Services	Cards	(PSCs).	The	background	to	the	litigation,	including	the	findings	of the DPC arising from its investigation into processing of personal data in connection with the PSC, and the details of the resolution of the litigation are detailed below.The DPC’s reportOn 15 August 2019, the DPC delivered its report in	relation	to	the	first	part	of	its	investigation	into	the processing of personal data carried out by the D/SP in connection with the PSC, to include the D/SP’s “SAFE 2” registration (for identity authentication)	process.	The	D/SP	published	the	DPC’s report on its website8 on 17 September 2019, along with its own response.9 This	first	part	of	the	DPC’s	investigation	focused	on	a	defined	and	limited	number	of	specific	issues. In particular, it examined the legal basis on which personal data is processed by the D/SP in connection with the PSC, and whether the information provided to data subjects in relation to the processing of their personal data in that context	satisfied	applicable	legal	requirements	in	terms of transparency. (The DPC’s investigation into certain other aspects of processing by D/SP in connection with the PSC is ongoing, as detailed below).Legal framework for the DPC’s investigationBecause the PSC scheme (and the DPC’s investigation)	pre-dated	the	coming	into	effect	of the GDPR (the investigation was commenced in	October	2017),	the	DPC’s	findings	were	made	by reference to particular obligations imposed on controllers under the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003 rather than the GDPR. (This is	specifically	mandated	by	Section	8	of	the	Data	Protection	Act	2018).	For	completeness,	it should be noted that the DPC’s report also included	some	(non-binding)	material	addressing	applicable provisions of the GDPR. FindingsA total of eight	findings	were	made	in	the	DPC’s	report. Three of those related to the legal basis issue; the remaining five related to issues around transparency.Seven of the eight	findings	were	adverse	to	positions advanced by the D/SP insofar as the DPC found that there is, or has been, non-compliance with applicable provisions of data protection law.In summary terms, the DPC found that: The processing of certain personal data by the D/SP in connection with the issuing of PSCs for the purpose of validating the identity of a person claiming, receiving or presenting for payment	of	a	benefit,	has	a	legal basis under applicable data protection law. The processing of personal data by the D/SP in connection with the issuing of PSCs for the purposes of transactions between individuals and	other	specified	public	bodies	(i.e.	bodies	other	than	the	D/SP	itself)	does	not have a legal basis under applicable data protection laws; specifically,	such	processing	contravenes	Section	2A of the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003.8 Available at http://m.welfare.ie/en/pressoffice/Pages/pr170919.aspx 9 Under applicable legislation, it was not open to the DPC to publish the report itself. A statement was issued by the DPC on	its	own	website	at	the	time,	outlining	the	scope	of	the	investigation	and	summarising	the	report’s	findings.	However,	as described further below, following the resolution of the litigation taken by the D/SP in December 2021, the DPC has published its report on its website alongside the details of the terms upon which the litigation taken by the D/SP against the DPC was resolved.72 The D/SP’s retention of underlying documents and information provided by persons applying for	a	PSC	on	a	blanket	and	indefinite	basis	contravenes	Section	2(1)(c)(iv)	of	the	Data	Protection Acts, 1988 and 2003 because such data is being retained for periods longer than is necessary for the purposes for which it was collected. In terms of transparency, the scheme does not comply with Section 2D of the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003, in that the information provided by the D/SP to the public about the processing of their personal data in connection with the issuing of PSCs was not adequate.(As	per	the	DPC’s	statement	of	16	August	2019	(referenced	above),	the	DPC	also	determined	that	PSCs already issued by D/SP would not be treated as invalid and likewise, individuals who access benefits	-	including	free	travel	-	using	their	PSC	remained	free	to	do	so.)	Requirements to address contraventions identified in the reportWhen	delivering	its	report,	the	DPC	notified	the	D/SP that enforcement action would be deferred to	afford	the	D/SP	an	opportunity	to	identify	the	measures it would need to implement to bring the PSC scheme into compliance with data protection legislation and to remedy the contraventions identified	in	the	report.	The	DPC	called	on	the	D/SP to develop and submit its implementation plan	within	a	period	of	6	weeks,	and	to	ensure	that the measures necessary to bring the scheme into compliance would be in place no later than 31 December 2019. Separately, however, the DPC called	on	the	D/SP	to	take	two	specific	steps	within	a period of 21 days: (1)	Cease	all	processing	of	personal	data	carried	out in connection with the issuing of PSCs, where a PSC is issued solely for the purpose of a transaction between a member of the public and	a	specified	public	body	(i.e.	a	public	body	other	than	the	D/SP	itself).	(2)	Notify	all	public	bodies	who	require	production	of a PSC as a pre-condition to entering into a transaction with (or providing a public service to)	a	member	of	the	public	that,	going	forward,	the D/SP would not be in a position to issue PSCs to such persons. The D/SP’s response to the DPC’s findingsThe D/SP wrote to the DPC on 3 September 2019, noting that, having carefully considered the contents of the report, along with advices received	from	the	Attorney	General’s	office,	the	Minister	for	Employment	Affairs	and	Social	Protection	was	satisfied	that,	contrary	to	the	position of the DPC, the processing of personal data in connection with the PSC had a strong legal basis. The letter also noted the Ministers’ position that the information provided to users of	the	PSC	scheme	satisfied	applicable	statutory	requirements relating to transparency. Against that backdrop, the letter noted that the Minister considered that it would be inappropriate and potentially unlawful to take the measures required by the DPC. Accordingly, the letter indicated that the Minister had determined that the D/SP would continue to operate the PSC scheme and the SAFE 2	registration	process,	without	modification.	Notwithstanding its rejection of the report, and its refusal to formulate and implement measures to bring the scheme into compliance, the letter of 3 September 2019 proposed that the D/SP and the DPC should nonetheless meet to explore whether measures could be agreed that would obviate the requirement for enforcement proceedings. A statement was issued by the Minister (along with the	Minister	for	Public	Expenditure	and	Reform)	on	the	same	date,	in	terms	that	reflected	the	contents of the letter of 3 September 2019.The DPC replied to the D/SP by letter dated 5 September 2019, explaining the reasons why the DPC considered that, in light of the rejection of the	report’s	findings,	and	the	Minister’s	stated	determination to continue to operate the PSC scheme,	without	modification,	there	could	be	no	basis for engagement between the parties in the manner	–	or	for	the	purpose	-	suggested.	The	letter concluded by noting that, since the D/SP was	refusing	to	accept	the	report’s	findings,	and	where it was clear that no implementation plan would be formulated or implemented by the D/SP to	address	the	points	of	non-compliance	identified	within	those	findings,	the	basis	on	which	the	DPC had deferred enforcement action no longer applied. Accordingly, the letter indicated that the DPC would now proceed to enforcement. 73Annual Report 2021Following a further exchange of correspondence between the parties in the intervening period, the D/SP published its response to the DPC’s report on its website on 17 September 2019 together with a statement by the Minister. As well as restating that the Minister and the D/SP did not accept	the	findings	contained	in	the	DPC’s	report,	the response and statement reiterated the stated views	of	the	Minister	and	the	D/SP	to	the	effect	that the PSC had a robust legal basis and that the D/SP would continue to issue PSCs for use by a number of public bodies across the public sector. The D/SP’s response to the report also criticised various aspects of the report, the investigation process which had been followed by the DPC, as well as the process the DPC had called on the D/SP to engage with to identify measures to remedy the contraventions	of	data	protection	law	identified	in	the report. The D/SP also reiterated, in categoric terms, its position that it would continue to operate the PSC and SAFE registration process as it had done to that point. Enforcement action by the DPC and appeal taken by the D/SPUltimately an enforcement notice was issued under Section 10 of the Data Protection Acts 1988 and	2003	on	6	December	2019.	That	notice,	which	was addressed to the Minister (acting through the	D/SP),	directed	the	taking	of	a	range	of	steps	in	order	to	remedy	the	contraventions	identified	in the DPC’s report. The enforcement notice was appealed by the Minister to the Circuit Court in late December 2019. Resolution of the appeal proceedingsThe hearing of the appeal proceedings taken by the D/SP against the DPC’s enforcement notice was due to take place before the Dublin Circuit Court in early December 2021. However a resolution of the litigation was reached between the DPC and the D/SP with the result that the hearing did not go ahead and the proceedings were struck out on 10 December 2021. The details of the resolution of the litigation reached between the DPC and the D/SP were published on the websites of both the DPC and the D/SP10. The DPC also published the report on its own website, following agreement by the D/SP.As part of the resolution of the litigation: it was agreed that further revisions would be made to the D/SP’s updated Privacy Statement (which had previously been updated by the D/SP in order to seek to address the DPC’s	findings	in	its	report	concerning	the	inadequacy of information provided to the public about the processing of their personal data	in	connection	with	the	issuing	of	PSCs).The revisions to be made to the Privacy Statement will include information to address: the circumstances in which personal data is shared with the D/SP by other public sector bodies and used to update a person’s public service	identity	(as	defined	under	the	Social	Welfare	Consolidation	Act,	2005);	and	the	retention of personal data by the D/SP in connection with the issuing of PSCs; the D/SP acknowledged that, in the absence of legislation	making	specific	provision	for	this,	other public sector bodies cannot compel any individual to acquire a PSC as a precondition to the provision of access to public services. To that end, it was acknowledged by the D/SP that at least one other option must now be provided in any case where an individual is required to verify their identity before accessing other public services;	significant	adjustments	will	be	made	to	the	D/SP’s approach to the retention of personal data submitted by individuals in connection with applications for PSCs, with the D/SP agreeing that, upon completion of a range of changes to be made to its data retention practices, it will not retain personal data submitted by an applicant	for	a	PSC	for	more	than	6	months,	save to the extent that such information is held as part of a person’s public service identity (as defined	under	the	Social	Welfare	Consolidation	Act,	2005);	and10 The DPC’s report and a notice outlining the terms of the resolution of the litigation are available on the DPC’s website at: https://www.dataprotection.ie/en/news-media/latest-news/dpc-welcomes-resolution-proceedings-relating-public-services-card 74 The D/SP is to engage with the DPC in relation to the development and implementation of new	systems	which	will	give	effect	to	certain	terms of the resolution - namely concerning the retention of personal data of applicants for PSCs - including a project involving the deletion and redaction of certain personal data already collected in connection with identity authentication and the issuing of PSCs and currently held by the D/SP.Continuation of investigation into other aspects of processing by the D/SP concerning the PSCThe	DPC	is	continuing	its	ongoing	(and	separate)	investigation into the D/SP’s use of biometric facial templates in the application of its facial matching software which is used for the purposes of the SAFE 2 registration process when a person applies for a PSC.75Annual Report 2021Summary of DPC Decision in WhatsApp Transparency InquiryOn 20 August 2021, the DPC adopted its decision in the WhatsApp Transparency Inquiry. The decision represented the conclusion of an inquiry that commenced on 10 December 2018, the purpose of which was to examine the extent to which	WhatsApp	Ireland	Limited	(“WhatsApp”)	achieved compliance with its transparency obligations to both users and non-users of its consumer internet-based messaging and calling service.BackgroundFollowing the entry into force of the GDPR on 25 May 2018, the DPC received a number of complaints from individual data subjects concerning the data processing activities of WhatsApp. These complaints were received from both users and non-users of WhatsApp’s service. In addition to this, the DPC also received a mutual assistance request, pursuant to Article 61	of	the	GDPR,	from	Der	Bundesbeauftragte	für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit (the German	Federal	Data	Protection	Authority).	That request touched upon the transparency obligations that are placed on data controllers by the GDPR in the context of the possible sharing of personal data between WhatsApp and a variety of Meta	(formerly	Facebook)	companies.	Following a preliminary examination of the complaints, the DPC observed that, while the precise	details	of	the	complaints	differed,	concerns about transparency featured as a common theme throughout. Having considered the issues arising, the DPC decided to commence an own-volition inquiry pursuant to Section 110 of the Data Protection Act 2018 (“the 2018 Act”)	for	the	purpose	of	assessing	the	extent	to	which WhatsApp complies with its transparency obligations pursuant to Articles 12, 13 and 14 of the GDPR.It is important to note that, while the decision to commence an own-volition inquiry was prompted by the common theme running across the various complaints and the above-referenced mutual assistance request, the inquiry did not concern any	specific	or	individual	complaint.	The	DPC	has handled, and will continue to handle, any such individual complaints or concerns by way of separate processes under the 2018 Act, as might be required. Article 60 and the Co-Decision-Making ProcessGiven that WhatsApp provides its service to individuals throughout Europe, the processing under	examination	was	captured	by	the	definition	of “cross-border processing” set out in Article 4(23)	GDPR.	In	the	circumstances,	Article	60	GDPR envisages a co-decision-making process whereby a draft decision is prepared by the lead supervisory authority for the purpose of enabling the other supervisory authorities concerned to express their views on same and, thereby, input into the decision-making process. WhatsApp’s single establishment in Europe is based in Dublin and, accordingly, the DPC was competent to act as lead supervisory authority for the purpose of the co-decision-making process. The extent of availability of WhatsApp’s service in Europe was such that all of the other data protection supervisory authorities were engaged as concerned supervisory authorities for the purpose of the co-decision-making process.The InquiryThe DPC’s inquiry examined the issues arising under three core headings, as follows:1. Transparency in the context of non-users: this aspect of the inquiry examined the extent to which WhatsApp processes personal data in relation to non-users of its service and whether any such processing gives rise to a requirement for it to comply with the obligations set out in Articles	14	and	12(1)	of	the	GDPR.2. Transparency in the context of users: this aspect examined the extent to which WhatsApp complies with its obligations under	Articles	13	and	12(1)	of	the	GDPR,	in	the context of its processing of personal data relating to users of the service.3. Transparency in the context of any sharing of personal data between WhatsApp and the Meta	(formerly	Facebook)	group	of	companies:	this aspect examined the extent to which WhatsApp complied with its obligations under	Articles	13	and	12(1)	of	the	GDPR,	in	the context of any sharing of personal data between	it	and	the	Meta	(formerly	Facebook)	group of companies.76In the context of non-users, WhatsApp’s position was that it did not, as a data controller, process personal data relating to non-users of the service. It stated that, while it processes the telephone numbers of non-users, it did so as a processor, acting on behalf of users who had activated the contact upload feature. The contact upload feature is a popular voluntary feature of the service that, when activated, allows WhatsApp to upload, to its servers, the mobile phone numbers that are stored in the address book on the user’s device for the purpose of determining which of the user’s contacts are already using the service. This enables WhatsApp to populate the user’s contacts on the service, thereby enabling the user to easily communicate with fellow user contacts. In the case of a non-user, WhatsApp subjects the mobile phone number to a cryptographic hashing process that generates a hash value, following which the mobile phone number is deleted. The hash value is retained and stored by WhatsApp on its servers, in conjunction with details of the derivative user. According to WhatsApp, this enables	it	to	efficiently	connect	new	users	with	their existing user contacts in the event that they decide to sign up to the service in the future. In order to determine whether or not the processing that takes place as a result of the activation of the contact upload feature involves the processing of non-user personal data, the DPC	firstly	examined	the	nature	of	a	mobile	phone	number.	Having	considered	the	definition	of	“personal	data”	set	out	in	Article	4(1)	and	the	provisions	of	Recital	26	GDPR,	the	DPC	concluded	that a mobile phone number, in and of itself, constitutes personal data. The DPC reached this conclusion in light of the unique nature of a phone number, which provides a possible conduit to a particular individual; in other words, while an individual	data	subject	is	not	necessarily	identified	by a phone number, he/she can be said to be identifiable. The DPC further concluded that, when processing the mobile phone numbers of non-users, WhatsApp did so as a data controller and not a data processor acting on behalf of individual users.	This	conclusion	reflected	the	factual	reality whereby it was WhatsApp, rather than an individual user, that was in a position to exercise control and make decisions concerning the means and purposes of the processing of the non-user data. Following a consequent assessment of the information that WhatsApp provides to non-users, the DPC reached the view that WhatsApp to have infringed	Articles	14	and	12(1).The DPC then carried out an extensive assessment of the information that WhatsApp provided to users.	This	assessment	identified	a	significant	information	deficit,	in	terms	of	the	information	that is required to be provided pursuant to Articles 12(1)	and	13	GDPR.	The	issues	identified	by	the	DPC, in this regard, included concerns regarding the manner in which certain information had been presented which, in the view of the DPC, rendered it	difficult	for	the	users	concerned	to	receive	the information that WhatsApp was required to provide.The DecisionArticle	60	GDPR	envisages	a	process	whereby	decisions are made by consensus; while the lead supervisory authority is responsible for the preparation of a draft decision, it must take due account of any views that might be expressed by any of the other supervisory authorities concerned. If a concerned supervisory authority decides to express a view by way of a formal objection, the lead supervisory authority is required	to	take	account	(or	“follow”)	that	objection, failing which, it must submit the matter to the European Data Protection Board (“the EDPB”)	for	determination	through	the	dispute	resolution	process	under	Article	65	GDPR.Accordingly, having concluded its inquiry, the DPC prepared and circulated a draft decision to the concerned supervisory authorities on 24 December 2020. That draft decision proposed findings	of	infringement	of	Articles	12,	13	and	14. It further proposed the exercise of corrective powers, as follows:1. A reprimand, to formally identify and recognise the fact of infringement; 2.	An	administrative	fine	of	an	amount	between	€30	million	and	€50	million;	and3. An order to bring processing into compliance, requiring WhatsApp to take a range of specified	remedial	actions	to	address	the	issues	identified	in	the	draft	decision.77Annual Report 2021While there was a substantial level of agreement amongst the concerned supervisory authorities in relation to the DPC’s analysis and proposed findings,	a	total	of	eight	objections	were	raised	by certain concerned supervisory authorities in response to the DPC’s draft decision. Seven comments were also exchanged. The views underlying the comments and objections concerned a range of matters, including suggestions	as	to	additional	findings	of	infringement that might be added to the draft decision	as	well	as	the	administrative	fine	that	was proposed to be imposed in response to any concluded	findings	of	infringement.	Having considered the matters raised, the DPC prepared and circulated a memorandum to the concerned supervisory authorities on 1 April 2021, addressing the concerns raised and setting out the compromise positions that it proposed to take, in order to try and reach consensus with the supervisory authorities concerned. Ultimately, consensus was not possible and, in the circumstances,	the	DPC	formally	confirmed	that	it	was not in a position to follow the objections, as raised. Consequently, the DPC referred the matter to the EDPB on 3 June 2021 for determination pursuant	to	the	Article	65	GDPR	dispute	resolution	mechanism.The	EDPB	adopted	its	Article	65	decision	on	28	July	2021	and	notified	it	to	the	DPC	and	the	supervisory authorities concerned on 30 July 2021. The EDPB required the DPC to follow certain of the objections that had been raised, including those that proposed the amendment of the draft	decision	to	include	an	additional	finding	of	infringement	of	Article	5(1)(a)	and	the	upward	re-assessment of the proposed administrative fine.	The	EDPB	further	reached	a	determination	of the divergent positions that had been taken by the DPC and concerned supervisory authorities in relation to the interpretation and application of Article	83(3)	GDPR,	which	concerns	the	calculation	of	administrative	fines	in	cases	involving	multiple	infringements that arise from the same or linked processing operations. The determination of this particular issue had a	very	significant	impact	on	the	fine	that	had	previously been proposed by the DPC’s draft decision in circumstances where the EDPB’s decision required the DPC to take account of each infringement that was found to have occurred when	calculating	an	administrative	fine	(as	opposed to taking account of only the gravest of the infringements that were found to have occurred, as had previously been proposed by the DPC).The DPC duly amended its decision to take account	of	the	EDPB’s	decision	and	the	final	decision was adopted by the DPC on 20 August 2021. Subsequent EventsWhatsApp has since exercised its statutory right of appeal against the DPC’s decision. WhatsApp has additionally commenced judicial review proceedings concerning both the procedures followed by the DPC as well as the constitutionality of certain aspects of the 2018 Act such that both the DPC and the State are respondents to that action. Both sets of proceedings are currently pending before the Irish High Court. Separately, WhatsApp has also sought to challenge the EDPB’s Article	65	decision	by	way	of	an	annulment	action	before the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Matters are at a very early stage and it will likely be a number of years before these legal challenges have concluded.In the interim, WhatsApp has amended its transparency information for users and non-users in pursuit of compliance with the terms of the order made by the DPC to bring processing into compliance. The order required remedial action to be taken by WhatsApp, to ensure that both users and non-users of WhatsApp’s service receive the transparency information that they are entitled to receive	pursuant	to	Articles	12	–	14	GDPR.78Judgments Delivered and Final Orders made in 2021No. Record No. TitleType of action and venueDate of Judgment/OrderOutcome Current Status of  Case12020/617	JR(2020/126	COM)Facebook Ireland Limited v. Data Protection Commission [Notice party: Maximilian Schrems]The High CourtJudicial Review proceedings14 May 2021(Written Judgment of Barniville	J.)These proceedings are related to the proceedings outlined at no. 2 below. Following the decision of the CJEU in Schrems II (C-311/18 Data Protection Commissioner v. Facebook Ireland Limited and Maximilian Schrems)	the	DPC	commenced an own volition inquiry pursuant to Section 110 of the Data Protection Act, 2018. (That inquiry is examining the lawfulness of data transfers by Facebook Ireland Limited to its US-based parent company, Facebook Inc. via SCCs. The data transfers in question concern personal data of individuals based in the European Union/ European Economic Area. The inquiry is also examining whether and/or which corrective power should be exercised by the	DPC	pursuant	to	Article	58(2)	of	the	GDPR,	in the event that Facebook Ireland Limited is found to have acted unlawfully and in breach of	Article	46	of	the	GDPR.)In order to commence the inquiry, the DPC issued a Preliminary Draft Decision (“PDD”)	to	Facebook Ireland Limited on 28 August 2020. The PDD was stated to have two purposes. The first	was	to	notify	Facebook	Ireland	Limited	of	the commencement of the inquiry. The second was to set out the background/ basis of the inquiry, to set out the DPC’s preliminary view on the issues raised and to invite submissions from Facebook Ireland Limited. In correspondence with Facebook Ireland Limited,	the	DPC	noted	that	no	final	decision	had been reached and that Facebook Ireland Limited could make submissions in relation to the PDD within 21 days. Proceedings concludedLitigation 10 Annual Report 202179Annual Report 2021Judgments Delivered and Final Orders made in 2021No. Record No. TitleType of action and venueDate of Judgment/OrderOutcome Current Status of  CaseFacebook Ireland Limited took issue with the DPC’s decision to commence the inquiry in the manner it did. As a result, it issued judicial review proceedings against the DPC, which Mr Schrems joined as a notice party. Facebook Ireland Limited maintained that the DPC was not entitled to commence the inquiry by way of	the	PDD	and	that	the	PDD	was	in	effect	a	premature judgment of the DPC. Facebook Ireland Limited also maintained that the DPC was not entitled to adopt the procedures it adopted, for various reasons. Ultimately, Mr Justice Barniville refused the application by Facebook Ireland Limited for judicial review and held that Facebook Ireland Limited had failed to identify any unfairness in the procedure adopted by the DPC in the PDD. He therefore held that the DPC was entitled to issue the PDD. In respect of costs, the Court ordered Facebook Ireland Limited to pay 90% of the DPC’s costs and the costs of Mr Schrems, both to be adjudicated upon in default of agreement. A more extensive update on the DPC’s September 2021 decision in respect of WhatsApp can be found in the chapter on Significant	Sanctions	and	Corrective	Measures.80Judgments Delivered and Final Orders made in 2021No. Record No. TitleType of action and venueDate of Judgment/OrderOutcome Current Status of  Case22020/707 JR(2020/146	COM)Maximilian Schrems v. Data Protection Commission[Notice Party: Facebook Ireland Limited]The High CourtJudicial Review proceedings13 January 2021These proceedings also relate to the PDD (referred	to	in	no.	1	above)	issued	by	the	DPC	to Facebook Ireland Limited in the context of the DPC’s own volition inquiry which is examining the lawfulness of data transfers by Facebook Ireland Limited to its US-based parent company, Facebook Inc., via SCCs. Mr Schrems issued Judicial Review proceedings in which he adopted the position that the DPC was bound to address issues relating to the lawfulness of Facebook Ireland Limited’s transfers solely by means of the DPC’s pre-existing investigation of a complaint previously lodged by Mr Schrems with the DPC. Mr Schrems also contended that the own-volition inquiry amounted to an attempt to exclude Mr Schrems from the procedure in which the substance of his complaint would be considered, in breach of Mr Schrems’ right to fair procedures. The proceedings were settled on terms agreed between the parties, pursuant to which the own volition inquiry and complaint-based procedures are being pursued in tandem. Issues relating to costs have not yet been decided by the Court. Proceedings discontinued32021/67MCA	Fingal County Council v Data Protection CommissionHigh Court proceedings 1 November 2021 (Final Order)	On consent of the parties, an order was made by the High Court striking out the proceedings, with no order as to costs.Proceedings discontinued 81Annual Report 2021Judgments Delivered and Final Orders made in 2021No. Record No. TitleType of action and venueDate of Judgment/OrderOutcome Current Status of  Case42019/5964Nowak v. Data Protection Commissioner and the Courts Service and PricewaterhousecoopersStatutory AppealDublin Circuit Court23 November 2021(Ex tempore Judgment)By ex tempore Judgment pronounced on 23 November 2021, the Circuit Court refused an appeal	brought	by	Mr	Nowak	under	section	26	of the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003. Mr Nowak had sought inter alia an Order setting aside the DPC’s decision dated 5 September 2019 in relation to a complaint made by Mr Nowak against the Courts Service.Subsequent to the conclusion of High Court litigation between Mr Nowak and Pricewaterhousecoopers, in which Mr Nowak was unsuccessful, Mr Nowak complained to the DPC alleging that the Courts Service had contravened the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003 in its handling of his personal data in the course of legal proceedings between Pricewaterhousecoopers and Mr Nowak. Mr Nowak’s complaint was not upheld by the DPC.The Circuit Court, in the appeal taken by Mr Nowak against the DPC’s decision, held that Mr Nowak was attempting to circumvent the decision of the High Court and re-litigate the Pricewaterhousecoopers proceedings by complaining to the DPC. The Circuit Court held that the DPC had issued its decision after due consideration and further held that there was no basis upon which to substantiate any of Mr Nowak’s grounds of appeal against that decision.In dismissing the appeal, the Circuit Court made an Order for costs in favour of the DPC, the Courts Service and Pricewaterhousecoopers. However, the Circuit Court put a stay of eight weeks on the Order. Mr Nowak has lodged an appeal with the High Court Central office.	82Judgments Delivered and Final Orders made in 2021No. Record No. TitleType of action and venueDate of Judgment/OrderOutcome Current Status of  Case52019/6940Nowak v. Data Protection Commissioner and the Irish Auditing and Accounting Supervisory AuthorityStatutory AppealDublin Circuit Court23 November 2021(Ex tempore Judgment)By ex tempore Judgment pronounced on 23 November 2021, the Circuit Court refused an appeal brought by Mr Nowak under section	26	of	the	Data	Protection	Acts	1988	and 2003. Mr Nowak sought inter alia an Order setting aside the DPC’s decision dated 14 October 2019 in relation to a complaint made by Mr Nowak to the DPC against the Irish Auditing and Accounting Supervisory Authority	(IAASA).Subsequent to the conclusion of High Court litigation between Mr Nowak and IAASA in which Mr Nowak was unsuccessful, Mr Nowak’s complained to the DPC alleging inter alia that a complaint he had made to IAASA was processed unlawfully and seeking various declarations that the manner in which IAASA had dealt with Mr Nowak’s complaint was unlawful. Mr Nowak’s complaint was not upheld by the DPC.Having considered the submissions of the parties, the Circuit Court held that Mr Nowak was using the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003 in order to try to re-litigate a matter which had already been dealt with by the High Court. Accordingly, the Circuit Court refused Mr Nowak’s appeal.In upholding the DPC’s decision the Circuit Court held that the DPC had acted completely fairly and within her remit in coming to her decision. The Court made an Order for costs in favour of both the DPC and IAASA but stayed the Order for 8 weeks. Mr Nowak has lodged an appeal with the High Court83Annual Report 2021Judgments Delivered and Final Orders made in 2021No. Record No. TitleType of action and venueDate of Judgment/OrderOutcome Current Status of  Case62019/8026Nowak v. Data Protection Commissioner and the Residential Tenancies Board and the Minister for Housing, Planning and Local GovernmentStatutory AppealDublin Circuit Court23 November 2021(Ex tempore Judgment)By ex tempore Judgment pronounced on 23 November 2021, the Circuit Court refused an appeal brought by Mr Nowak under section	26	of	the	Data	Protection	Acts	1988	and 2003. Mr Nowak had sought inter alia an Order setting aside the DPC’s decision dated 3 December 2019 in relation to a complaint made by Mr Nowak to the DPC against the Residential	Tenancies	Board	(RTB).Following the conclusion of various High Court litigation between Mr Nowak and the RTB, in which Mr Nowak was unsuccessful in each instance, Mr Nowak complained to the DPC alleging inter alia that his various complaints to the RTB were processed unlawfully. He also sought various declarations that the manner in which the RTB had dealt with his complaints was unlawful. Mr Nowak’s complaint was not upheld by the DPC.In refusing Mr Nowak’s appeal, the Circuit Court	was	satisfied	that	Mr	Nowak	was	seeking to re-litigate issues in relation to tenancy disputes which had already been decided and determined by the Courts. The Court held that the DPC had given fair and due consideration to the various issues involved in the complaint and held that none	of	the	issues	identified	by	Mr	Nowak	disclosed any valid ground of appeal. Mr Nowak has lodged an appeal with the High Court84Judgments Delivered and Final Orders made in 2021No. Record No. TitleType of action and venueDate of Judgment/OrderOutcome Current Status of  Case72020/00712Nowak v. Data Protection Commissioner and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland, the Irish Auditing and Accounting Supervisory Authority, the Minister for Justice and Equality, the Minister for Business, Enterprise	&	Innovation,	the Commissioner of An Garda Síochána, the Director of Corporate Enforcement, the Attorney General and Ireland.Statutory AppealDublin Circuit Court23 November 2021(Ex tempore Judgment)By ex tempore Judgment pronounced on 23 November 2021, the Circuit Court refused an appeal	brought	by	Mr	Nowak	under	section	26	of the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003. Mr had Nowak sought inter alia an Order setting aside the DPC’s decision dated 3 December 2019 in relation to a complaint made by Mr Nowak to the DPC against the Institute of Chartered	Accountants	in	Ireland	(ICAI).Subsequent to the conclusion of High Court litigation between Mr Nowak and the ICAI, in which Mr Nowak was unsuccessful, Mr Nowak complained to the DPC alleging inter alia that he had not consented to his personal data being processed by the ICAI and seeking various declarations including that his personal data was unlawfully processed and that the ICAI had operated unlawfully until 2012 and therefore could not be regarded as a legitimate data controller. In refusing Mr Nowak’s appeal, the Circuit Court noted that Mr Nowak was again seeking to re-litigate a matter that had happened 8 years previously and that he was trying to use the Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003 to circumvent the previous court decisions. The Court held that there was no evidence to justify the merits of Mr Nowak’s appeal. The Court	further	confirmed	that	there	was	no	lack	of investigation by the DPC as alleged by Mr Nowak	and	that	the	Court	was	fully	satisfied	with the DPC’s decision in this case. The Court dismissed the appeal and awarded costs to the DPC and ICAI, but placed a stay of eight weeks on the Order.Mr Nowak has lodged an appeal with the High Court82019/8593Department of Employment	Affairs	and	Social Protection v. Data Protection CommissionStatutory AppealDublin Circuit Court10 December 2021On consent, an appeal brought by the Department	of	Employment	Affairs	and	Social	Protection	(as	it	was	then	known)	against	an	Enforcement	Notice	issued	by	the	DPC	on	6	December 2019, in respect of the processing and retention of personal data relating to the Public	Services	Card	(PSC),	was	struck	out.	An extensive update on the Public Service’s Card appeal can be found in the chapter on Significant	Sanctions	and	Corrective	Measures.85Annual Report 2021Proceedings discontinuedNo. Record No. TitleType of action and venueDate of Judgment/OrderOutcome Current  Status of  Case92019/7318 PGerardine Scanlan v. Paul Gilligan and OrsPlenary proceedings21 December 2021 (Written judgment)By written judgment of 21 December 2021, the High Court struck out the proceedings against the nine remaining defendants including the DPC. By way of hearing on 13 and 14 May 2021, the various defendants sought to strike out the proceedings on the basis that they constituted an abuse of process. The Court agreed with the various defendants that the proceedings constituted an abuse of process and accordingly the proceedings were struck out pursuant to the inherent jurisdiction of the court. Further, the Court granted an Isaac Wunder	preventing	the	plaintiff	from	issuing any further proceedings against the fourth to the seventh named defendants	without	first	seeking	the	leave of the Court. The matter of costs has not yet been dealt with. Proceedings concluded save for the issue of costs.86Supervision Supervision Engagement with public and private sector organisations, policy makers and legislators enables the DPC to understand the ways in which personal data are being processed by data controllers and processors, and enables the DPC to proactively identify, at a high level, data protection concerns and, in the case of new products or services to ensure that organisations are aware of their compliance obligations and potential problems in advance of the commencement of the processing of personal data. The	aim	of	supervision	engagement	is	to	offer	guidance to stakeholders and to connect proactively as a regulator with a visible presence, ensuring the data protection rights of service users are upheld. In this context, the DPC promotes and aims to maintain open and regular communication with such stakeholders which includes organisations. In this way, the DPC advocates for the rights of individuals by mitigating against potential infringements before they occur. The Supervision function also facilitates prompt reaction by the DPC, where appropriate, to data protection concerns as they emerge.The Supervision function is an important part of the regulatory framework, as ensuring best practice is applied at project planning stages results in better outcomes for data subjects and less need for resource-intensive ex-post activity for the DPC. However, if during engagement with the Supervision function it appears necessary for the DPC to take enforcement action against a particular organisation, the DPC is not precluded from taking relevant action in such circumstances. The DPC received 1,013 consultation requests during 2021. The sectoral breakdown is as follows:11 Annual Report 202187Annual Report 2021Legislative Consultation The DPC provided guidance and observations on over 40 proposed legislative measures in 2021. In so doing, the DPC seeks to promote data protection by design and the upholding of data protection rights within legislation where the processing of personal data may result.In 2021, some of the legislative measures that the DPC engaged in consultation on were: Birth Information and Tracing Bill Building Control (Construction Industry Register	Ireland)	Bill	2021 Circular Economy Bill European Union (Interoperability of electronic road	toll	systems)	Regulations Garda Síochána (Functions and Operational Areas)	Bill	Garda	Síochána	(Powers)	Bill	Garda	Síochána	(Digital	Recording)	Bill Health Amendment Act 2021 and secondary legislation relating to implementation of Covid-19 public health measures Judicial Appointments Commission Bill Maritime Area Planning Bill	Official	Languages	(Amendment)	Bill Policing and Community Safety Bill 	Protected	Disclosures	(Amendment)	BillSector#%Private Sector52252Public Sector25525Multinational Tech Sector10510Health Sector919Voluntary/Charity Sector252Law Enforcement Sector152Total1,013 Road Safety Authority (Commercial Vehicle Roadworthiness)	Act	2012	(Use	of	Information)	Regulations	Sea	Fisheries	(Amendment)	Bill	Sex	Offenders	(Amendment)	Bill Teaching Council (Information to be furnished by	employer	in	case	of	dismissal	or	resignation)	Regulations 2021	Workplace	Relations	(Miscellaneous	Provisions)	Bill Inspection of Places of Detention BillThe DPC also contributed at seven Oireachtas Joint Committee sessions in relation to Bills undergoing pre-legislative scrutiny by the Committees. Appearances before Oireachtas Joint Committees in 2021 have included: Birth Information and Tracing Bill Electoral Reform Bill	Garda	Síochána	(Digital	Recording)	Bill	Garda	Síochána	(Powers)	Bill Online Safety and Media Regulation BillThroughout 2021, the DPC continued its engagement with DPOs, stakeholders, government departments, state agencies and advocacy groups across all sectors on a wide range of issues including:88Health sector 2021 continued to be a busy year for the DPC in light of the ongoing pandemic. From January the DPC continued to oversee healthcare organisations and departments to ensure data controllers understand the data protection consequences of the processing required to minimise the spread of the Covid virus. The DPC also continued to produce and update guidance on a range of Covid related data protection issues including the Processing Covid-19 vaccination data in the context of employment, data protection implications of the Return to Work Safely Protocol, and	the	Vaccine	Certificate	check	guidance.	Building on the work carried out in the previous year, the DPC continued to engage with Government Departments to ensure that data protection was given appropriate consideration in the development of public policy and legislation in the context of the pandemic. The DPC began its engagement with and oversight of the health sector on the Vaccine Information database before a single dose had arrived in Ireland and was pleased with the early involvement in the project, as the DPC’s previous experience has demonstrated the positive outcomes associated with DPC involvement during project planning stages. A comprehensive Data Processing Impact Assessment	(DPIA)	on	the	project	was	reviewed	and DPC feedback was integrated into the project on an ongoing basis, illustrating the value of DPIAs for this type of large scale processing for both citizens as data subjects and data controllers. The DPC also engaged with the Department of Health in relation to legislation to implement various Covid public health measures, such as passenger locator forms for international travel and vaccination certs for access to hospitality services, to ensure that the principles of data protection were given due consideration in all cases.2021 saw the signing into law of the Health Research Regulation Amendments. This important piece of legislation sought to improve patient outcomes through the use of health data whilst ensuring the rights of data subjects in terms of their health data are preserved through a range of	measures,	including	clarification	of	standards	required for retrospective chart reviews, pre-screening for the purpose of assessing eligibility/suitability for inclusion in health research, and data subjects’ capacity to consent.Anti-Money Laundering There are substantive changes in the pipeline from the EU Commission regarding a new Regulation on the prevention of the use of the financial	system	for	the	purposes	of	money	laundering	or	terrorist	financing	(AML).	Through	the Financial Matters Subgroup of the EDPB, we have discussed these proposals with the EU Commission. These new changes to AML requirements and procedures will need to be proportionate and balanced with the GDPR. In that regard, substantive guidance will be needed for all obliged entities / data controllers who will have to comply with both the new AML rules and the GDPR. During 2021 the DPC raised these issues with the Department of Finance, the Central Bank of Ireland and the Revenue Commissioners, and has been involved in various working groups such	as	the	Beneficial	Ownership	Working	Group	of the European Business Register Association (EBRA)	organised	by	the	Companies	Registration	Office,	and	the	Financial	Action	Task	Force	(FATF)	Project for Data Pooling and Data Protection for AML purposes. The work will continue in this area in 2022 to ensure that there is a balanced approach for the operation of AML in conjunction with the GDPR requirements.89Annual Report 2021Smart meteringEngagement with the Commission for Regulation	of	Utilities	(CRU),	ESB	Networks	and the Department of Environment, Climate and Communications continued in 2021 on the National Smart Meter Programme with a particular focus on the retention of smart meter data	and	the	justification	for	the	periods	proposed	took place. The DPC continues to engage with certain NGOs concerned on this point. The DPC also provided input to the development of the Smart	Data	Access	Code	which	will	define	the	rules for access to smart meter data, including the safeguards and procedures necessary to ensure the data is used in a data protection compliant manner. Insurance During 2021 the DPC provided detailed observations on Insurance Ireland’s draft “Guidance on Data Protection Requirement for Insurers When Handling Personal Data”. The guidance is intended to replace the outdated 2013 industry Code of Practice, providing a GDPR compliant document to guide the insurance sector’s processing of personal data. Case Study 2690Annual Report 202190Annual Report 2021Covid – 19 Vaccination Status and SchoolsDuring 2021, a number of teachers contacted the DPC to raise concerns about, what they believed, was the processing of staff member’s vaccination data by the Department of Education. Schools across the country have required staff	members	to	complete	‘Self	Declaration	Forms,’ if they have been advised to restrict their movements, and provide HSE/medical confirmation	of	this.	One	of	the	listed	reasons	a person could select to explain why they could not come into work was ‘I am a close contact of	a	confirmed	Covid	–	19	case’.	At	the	time	the concern was raised with the DPC, public health advice indicated that if you were fully vaccinated and had no symptoms, you did not need to self-isolate if you were a close contact. The concern raised with the DPC was that the Department of Education was seeking vaccination status by proxy. On foot of the concerns raised, the DPC engaged with the Department of Education on the Self-Declaration Form, the reasons for collecting personal data and the legal basis the Department was relying on to carry out the processing. We were informed by the Department that the Self-Declaration Form was required to determine the absence duration of a	staff	member	and	the	length	of	contracts	to	be	offered	to	a	substitute	teacher.	The Department also cited the lawful basis for the processing and that there was no intention, implied or otherwise, to collect information on the	vaccination	status	of	school	staff.Based on the wording of the form and its stated purpose, the DPC concluded that the requirement for employees to complete a Self-Declaration Form did not constitute the processing	of	special	category	(health)	data	by the Department of Education. The DPC’s reason for coming to this conclusion was threefold:1)	The	personal	data	recorded	on	the	form	did	not constitute special category data.2)	The	controllers	(schools	and	Department	of	Education)	were	not	systematically	collecting or processing special category data	for	an	identified	purpose.	3)	The	controllers	were	not	further	processing	the data collected in a manner that revealed or drew inferences about the health status of an individual (such as combining the data with	other	personal	data).	Case Study 2791Annual Report 202191Annual Report 2021TikTok and cooperation with other EU data protection authoritiesDuring 2021, GDPR Article 61 mutual assistance requests were received by the DPC from the Dutch and the French data protection authorities. Each of these requests sought the DPC to further investigate a number of concerns relating to TikTok’s processing of its users’ personal data, particularly child users.   The authorities concerned had been investigating TikTok prior to the company locating its main establishment (EU headquarters)	in	Ireland	in	July	2020,	following	which in December 2020 the DPC assumed the role of TikTok’s lead supervisory authority once other EU supervisory authorities had satisfied	themselves	TikTok	was	main-established in Ireland. As a result, the Dutch and French authorities concluded that they no longer had competence to investigate TikTok and accordingly transferred their investigation files,	requesting	the	DPC	to	investigate	further.	These investigations coupled with the DPC’s own	identification	of	key	concerns	through	active engagement with TikTok in 2021 led the DPC to commence two own-volition inquiries pursuant to Section 110 of the Data Protection Act 2018 in relation to TikTok compliance with requirements of the GDPR. Case Study 28Case Study 2992Annual Report 202192Annual Report 2021Facebook View (Ray-Ban stories)During 2021, Facebook, in association with Ray-Ban, launched smart glasses known as ‘Ray-Ban stories’. The glasses allow the wearer to take photos and videos of what they see, activated by a touch or voice command.    The images can then be relayed via a Facebook companion app for storage or sharing on social media. While it is acknowledged that many devices including smart phones can record third-party individuals, it is generally the case that the camera or the phone is visible as the device by which recording is happening, thereby putting those captured in the recordings on notice. Ray-Ban stories operate using a small indicator light which activates ‘on’ when taking a photo or recording. The DPC engaged with Facebook, highlighting issues around the visibility and duration of this	light,	requesting	that	Facebook	confirm	and demonstrate that the LED indicator light	is	effective	for	its	purpose.	In	response,	Facebook has made software changes which increase the brightness of the external LED. Facebook also responded to the call from the DPC and the Italian Garante for Facebook to run an information campaign to alert the public as to how this new consumer product may give rise to less obvious recording of their images. Engagement with Facebook will continue into 2022. The DPC also continues to liaise with the Italian Garante in respect of any processing of personal data by Luxottica (the	manufacturer	of	the	glasses)	whom	the	Garante is competent to supervise. Facebook Election Day Information featureAs reported in the DPC’s Annual Report for 2020, Facebook suspended its Election Day Reminder feature following the DPC’s request that Facebook implement a mechanism to ensure that information on how personal data is used be made available to users in an easily accessible form before a user decides whether or not to interact/engage with the feature. Of particular concern to the DPC was the lack of clarity from Facebook on whether any data generated by a user interacting with the feature would be used for targeted advertising and newsfeed personalisation. In 2021, Facebook outlined to the DPC a number of changes made to the feature, renamed Election Day Information, to take account of the DPCs recommendations. The changes included the prominent positioning of	the	‘Learn	More’	link	to	the	feature	specific	Help Centre article; and enhanced in-product transparency clarifying that Facebook does not use personal data collected through interactions with EDI for advertising purposes and that Facebook does not share such data with third parties. Case Study 30Case Study 3193Annual Report 202193Annual Report 2021Instagram user self-compromiseIn May 2021, the DPC was made aware of incidents whereby users of Instagram were misled into providing their Instagram credentials to third-party apps leading to their accounts being compromised.    Although	no	EEA	users	were	affected	by	this	particular incident, in order to reduce the likelihood of users being misled in the EEA and similar incidents occurring, the DPC recommended that the data controller should supplement information to users with clear warnings as to the risks posed by these apps. The controller subsequently updated the Instagram Help Centre articles to provide additional clarity to users about the consequences of allowing such apps to access their accounts and has consolidated all Help Centre articles into a single, dedicated Help Centre page. Facebook ViewpointsDuring the course of 2021, the DPC engaged with Facebook on the planned launch of Viewpoints in the EU.    Facebook states that Viewpoints is a new market research platform that rewards users for participating in research programmes, the results of which Facebook uses to build and/or improve their products and evaluate new market opportunities. As part of the ongoing cooperation between the DPC and the other EU/EEA Supervisory Authorities, including the French, Italian, Hamburg, Norwegian and Dutch authorities, the DPC communicated to Facebook a number of concerns about the GDPR and ePrivacy compliance of the Viewpoints product. In December 2021, the DPC accordingly requested Facebook to review the schedule for further rollout in the EU/EEA of the Viewpoint app and the associated programs/surveys so that the DPC and other data protection authorities could further assess and engage with Facebook on the concerns raised. Facebook in response has agreed to pause the EU/EEA rollout of the programme. Children’s Data Protection Rights Public outreach work Following the publication of extensive draft guidance on children’s data protection issues at the end of 2020 (entitled “Children Front and Centre: Fundamentals for a Child-Oriented Approach to Data Processing”, referred to as the “Fundamentals”	for	short)	and	the	subsequent	launch	in	December	2020	of	a	final	round	of	public consultation on this draft guidance which ran	for	the	first	quarter	of	2021,	the	DPC	spent	the early months of 2021 meeting and engaging with representatives from industry as well as key stakeholders in the areas of children’s rights and child online safety to discuss initial feedback in relation to various issues addressed in the draft guidance, as well as analysing and synthesising all written submissions received in the course of the public consultation.Speaking engagementsIn tandem, in order to keep industry and the wider public	abreast	of	the	DPC’s	activities	in	the	field	of	children’s	policy,	staff	from	the	DPC	also	spoke	at numerous external events over the course of 2021, such as the TTC Youth Summit’s panel discussion on translating the best interests of the child into product design, a webinar hosted by law	firm	Lewis	Silken	entitled	“Children’s	Data	–	A	Global Perspective”, and a conference hosted by the euCONSENT consortium entitled “Online Child’s	Rights,	Age	Verification	and	Parental	Consent: Finding the Balance”. The DPC also recorded a podcast interview for the Association of	Compliance	Officers	of	Ireland’s	Compliance	Files series, and for Newstalk’s Tech Talk series, in which the DPC’s Fundamentals and key children’s data protection issues and challenges were discussed at length. 12 Annual Report 202195Annual Report 2021The DPC also recorded a series of videos on children’s data protection issues for the ISPCC’s new Digital Hub, covering topics such as Protecting Your Children’s Data Online, Data Protection and Social Media Platforms, Children’s Rights and the Age of Digital Consent, and Targeted	Advertising	and	Profiling.Participation in external committeesFollowing an invitation, the DPC became a member of the Advisory Board of a new European Commission-funded project called euCONSENT, which aims to develop a European-wide infrastructure to facilitate interoperable age verification	and	parental	consent	mechanisms.	The DPC also continued its participation as a member of the National Advisory Council for Online Safety, which this year published an extensive report on its National Survey of Children, their Parents and Adults regarding Online Safety.Participation in external consultationsIn early 2021, the DPC made a submission to the National Council for Curriculum and Assessment’s public consultation on the Draft Primary Curriculum Framework, in which the DPC strongly advocated for the creation and inclusion of a free-standing and comprehensive programme for digital citizenship on the national primary school curriculum, a core part of which should be dedicated to educating children specifically	about	data	protection	issues.	The	DPC also submitted written comments to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s	(OECD)	stakeholder	consultation	on its draft recommendation on children in the digital environment and draft guidelines for digital service providers. Closer to home, the DPC also made	detailed	submissions,	at	the	specific	request	of the Joint Committee on Media, Tourism, Arts, Culture, Sport and the Gaeltacht, on the General Scheme of the Online Safety and Media Regulation Bill. The DPC subsequently appeared as a witness during that Committee’s pre-legislative scrutiny of the Bill in May 2021 to provide further testimony in relation to its submission. Engagement with statutory bodiesThroughout the course of 2021, the DPC met with several statutory bodies to discuss developments in the area of children’s data protection issues, including the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland (which is intended to become the new Media Commission (encompassing a dedicated Online Safety	Commissioner)	upon	entry	into	force	of	the	Online	Safety	and	Media	Regulation	Bill),	OfCom	in the UK and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)	in	the	United	States.	The	DPC	also	met	with	its French and UK counterparts, the CNIL and the ICO, on a number of occasions throughout 2021 to exchange views and discuss the latest developments in both DPA’s work on children’s data protection rights.Report on public consultation on the draft “Fundamentals”In November 2021, following careful analysis and consideration of issues raised in responses to the DPC’s consultation on the draft Fundamentals, the DPC published a detailed report on the submissions received. The report focuses on the themes and sections of the draft guidance that attracted the most feedback and commentary, namely the scope of the Fundamentals, the “best interests of the child” principle, the exercise of children’s	rights,	age	verification,	and	profiling	for	targeted advertising purposes, and sets out the DPC’s responses in relation to this feedback.Publication of final “Fundamentals”In	December	2021,	the	DPC	published	the	final	version of the Fundamentals. This was the culmination of the DPC’s intensive work in this area over three years involving three separate stakeholder consultation processes (including a direct	consultation	with	children),	engagement	with experts in the area of children’s rights, expansive research and a two-stage drafting process.	The	final	version	of	the	Fundamentals	rests	heavily	on	significant	consultations	and	expert input and is an important step in terms of achieving the higher standards of protection for children’s personal data required under the GDPR. 96The DPC is determined to drive a transformation in how the personal data of children is handled and the Fundamentals represent an important stepping-stone in this evolution.The Fundamentals have immediate application and	operational	effect,	now	forming	the	basis	for	the DPC’s approach to supervision, regulation and enforcement in the area of processing of children’s personal data.European Data Protection Board (EDPB) Guidance on Children’s Data Protection IssuesIn late 2021, the DPC took on a lead role in the preparation at EDPB level of guidance on children’s data protection issues alongside a team of co-rapporteurs from Germany, France, Greece and Denmark. The DPC is pleased to be involved in such an important piece of work that seeks to harmonise the approach at an EU level, to be taken to the critical area of the processing of children’s data.1397Data Protection  Officers The DPC continued its compliance work concerning obligations data controllers have regarding	the	designation	and	notification	of	a	Data	Protection	Officer	(DPO).	In	particular,	the	DPC successfully completed the most recent stage in its DPO enforcement programme, aimed at improving compliance with Article 37 of the GDPR.The project, which was initiated in 2020, assessed the compliance of public bodies with their obligations under Article 37.7 of the GDPR, which mandates that public bodies are among the specific	categories	of	data	controller	required	to	appoint a DPO and notify the DPO’s details to the relevant Supervisory Authority.This	initial	phase	identified	over	77	potentially	non-compliant public bodies from a total of almost 250. Following the intervention of the DPC, over 70 organisations brought themselves into compliance, raising the sector’s compliance rate from	69%	to	near	100%.In 2021, the DPC expanded the project to include the private sector, acknowledging that there is no automatic requirement for non-public sector organisations to appoint a DPO. The appointment of DPOs in private sector organisations is determined by the scale and nature of the processing activities involved. With this in mind, the	DPC	identified	several	sectors	likely	to	meet	the threshold to appoint a DPO. These sectors included Private Hospitals and Out-of-Hours GP Services, Banking Entities, and Credit Unions. A summary	of	the	findings	is	as	follows:1398Private Hospitals and Out-of-Hours GP Services 24 Private Hospitals and out-of-hours GP services	were	identified	during	the	compliance	review.	Of	these,	42%	of	identified	services	had	appointed	a	DPO	and	notified	the	DPC	in	accordance	with	Article	37(7)	GDPR.	Following	DPC	intervention,	100%	of	identified	services have brought themselves into compliance with the requirements.Banking Entities	34	Banking	entities	were	identified	during	the	compliance review.	On	initial	inspection,	74%	of	identified	entities	were compliant.	Following	engagement,	80%	of	identified	entities are in compliance, three entities have given reasons for not appointing a DPO and the remainder are subject to ongoing engagement with the DPC. The DPC will be reviewing the reasons given for not appointing a DPO to ensure the correct application	of	Article	37(1)(b)	and	(c).Credit UnionsCredit Unions were contacted separately to the other banking entities due to the number of credit unions in the country. 242	credit	unions	were	identified	during	the	review. On initial inspection, 29% of credit unions were in	compliance	with	Article	37(7)	and	3% were in partial compliance.	Following	first	stage	engagement,	the	rate	of compliance has risen to 64%, with 10% in partial compliance. 13%	of	credit	unions	identified	have	chosen	not to designate a DPO. The credit unions engagement remains ongoing and the DPC will be reviewing the reasons given for not appointing a DPO to ensure	the	correct	application	of	Article	37(1)(b)	and	(c).In total, to date more than 170 additional organisations	now	comply	with	Article	37(7)	as	a result of the DPC’s intervention, making DPOs more accessible to individuals seeking to exercise their data protection rights.In	cases	of	where	the	DPC	identifies	persistent	non-compliance, further enforcement measures will be taken as proportionate and necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of the GDPR.Before extending compliance checks to other sectors, the DPC will consider whether further guidance is necessary to address any issues of concern.DPO NetworkThe DPC remains committed to supporting DPOs and their teams; a commitment that has been reiterated among the priorities for the DPC’s newly published Regulatory Strategy 2022-2027. This is in recognition of the key role played by DPOs in ensuring that GDPR programmes translate into lasting organisational culture and compliance. As	part	of	the	DPC’s	efforts	to	empower	DPOs	in	the conduct of their duties, the DPC established a DPO Network in late 2019. The purpose of the Network is to foster peer-to-peer engagement and knowledge sharing between DPOs and data protection professionals.DPC	staff	spoke	at	many	virtual	events	for	DPOs	during the year, including engagements with sectoral DPO Networks. In recognition of the growing numbers of people who are acting in a data protection advisory capacity for organisations that don’t meet the threshold to formally appoint a DPO, the DPC’s DPO Network has expanded its scope to include non-designated DPOs. In Quarter 1, 2022, the DPC will commence a series of online webinars aimed at supporting SMEs	in	their	compliance	efforts.	Registrations	are now open for those who wish to take part. To inquire about the DPC’s DPO Network, or to register interest in the SME workshops, please email DPONetwork@dataprotection.ie.  14International Activities European Data Protection Supervisory BodiesDuring 2021, the DPC continued to participate in the work programmes of the European supervisory bodies for large-scale EU IT systems such as Schengen, Europol, Eurodac, Eurojust, the Customs	Information	System	(CIS)	and	the	Internal	Market	Information	(IMI)	system.	Ireland connected to the Schengen Information System (SIS II) on 15 March 2021 The	Schengen	Information	System	(SIS)	is	the	most widely used and largest information sharing system for security and border management in Europe. SIS provides Garda Members and Garda Staff	who	use	PULSE	with	access	to	real	time	data	on	specific	alerts;	for	example	persons	wanted	for	criminal purposes, missing persons and objects which have been stolen or are wanted as evidence for a judicial purpose.In June 2021, a team of experts led by the European Commission carried out an on-site evaluation concerning the implementation of the Schengen Information System in Ireland. In advance of this evaluation, the DPC was required to complete a detailed questionnaire focusing on the DPC’s supervision of SIS II and engagement with	An	Garda	Síochána	(AGS).	As	a	consequence	of Ireland’s connection to SIS II, the DPC moved from its longstanding role as ‘observer’ to become a fully participating member of the data protection supervisory body of the Schengen Information Systems	(SIS	II).	As	part	of	its	supervisory	duties,	the DPC engaged with AGS throughout 2021 on SIS II related matters including data subject information	and	access	rights,	Article	36	alerts	and	SIS II training. 14Annual Report 2021100International Transfers - Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs)A key focus in the area of international transfers for the Data Protection Commission is the assessment and approval of Binding Corporate Rules applications from multi-national companies Binding Corporate RulesBinding	Corporate	Rules	(BCR)	were	introduced	in response to the need of organisations to have a global approach to data protection where many organisations consisted of several subsidiaries located around the globe, transferring data on a large scale. The inclusion of BCR in the GDPR further	solidifies	their	use	as	an	appropriate	safeguard to legitimise transfers to Third Countries. During 2021, the DPC continued to act or commenced acting as lead reviewer in relation to 33 BCR applications	from	19	different	companies. The DPC also assisted other European Data	Protection	Agencies	(DPAs)	by	acting	as	co-reviewer	or	on	drafting	teams	for	Article	64	Opinions on 13 BCRs in this period.Furthermore, once the BCR is approved, the DPC continues to have an oversight role receiving annual updates on all BCRs. In 2021 the DPC led on 23 BCRs	for	16	different	companies	which	are	already approved.The	EDPB	issued	Article	64	opinions	on	18	BCR	applications in 2021 and the DPC checked and offered	feedback	on	these	BCR	applications.Other International Transfer IssuesStaff	from	the	DPC	attended	11	meetings	of	the	EDPB International Transfers expert sub-group (ITES)	in	2021.	This	sub-group	of	the	EDPB	meets	to consider, advise and prepare documentation on matters concerning International Transfers. In	addition,	staff	from	the	DPC	attended	15	other	meetings with ITES colleagues for dedicated meetings on matters such as updating BCR documentation, BCR procedures and UK Adequacy.The EDPB issued Opinions, Guidelines and Recommendations on many Transfers related issues throughout 2021. This included guidelines on the Interplay between Chapter V and Article 3 GDPR and Use of Codes of Conduct as tools for Transfers; recommendations on measures that supplement transfer tools; opinions on the European Commission’s decisions on Adequacy of UK and South Korea and on the New EU Commission	Standard	Contractual	Clauses.	Staff	from the DPC were involved at all stages of these various EDPB publications, participating in drafting teams, providing comments and feedback at the many meetings held to discuss them and actively contributing	to	the	final	discussions	at	Plenary	level.EU Cooperation Despite ongoing travel restrictions preventing in-person meetings of the European Data Protection Board	(EDPB)	in	2021,	the	DPC	continued	to	attend and actively participate at all virtual monthly plenary meetings, in addition to over 200 expert subgroup meetings. The EDPB successfully	convened	in	November	2021	the	first	in-person plenary meeting since the beginning of the pandemic. This provided a valuable opportunity for the DPC to engage directly with EU data protection authority colleagues and plan future bi-lateral meetings and possible collaborations.Cooperation with other EDPB supervisory authorities 2021The DPC continued to invest considerable resources in the day-to-day operation of the OSS at various levels in the performance of its role as a Lead Supervisory Authority, including seeking the assistance of other authorities on a broad range of matters as well as keeping them informed of pertinent issues and developments. Voluntary Mutual Assistance requests are used to communicate details of OSS complaints and follow up communications and actions on complaints, as	well	as	notification	to	SAs	of	updates	on	supervision cases and inquiries and sharing of documents. 101Annual Report 2021	Article	61	Voluntary	Mutual	Assistance	Notifications	sent	to	Ireland	–	576	Article	61	Voluntary	Mutual	Assistance	Notifications	sent	by	Ireland	–	828Formal Mutual Assistance requests are used to formally request information from another SA or to request that an SA take certain actions. 	Article	61	Mutual	Assistance	requests	sent	to	Ireland	–	26	Article	61	Mutual	Assistance	requests	sent	by	Ireland	–	94International Activities  18-21 October Global Privacy Assembly In October 2021 the DPC participated in the Global Privacy	Assembly	(GPA);	the	annual	conference	attended by over 130 international data protection and privacy authorities. The 2021 event took place fully online and was hosted by the Mexican supervisory authority. Mexico has also now taken over from the United Kingdom as the Chair of the GPA.ARC ProjectThe DPC continued to contribute to the deliverables set out by the EU as part of its role within the ARC Awareness Raising Campaign aimed at SMEs, in conjunction with the Croatian Data Protection Agency AZOP, and Vrije University Brussels. Educational materials were drafted and uploaded to the ARC website, a survey was conducted engaging with 300 SMEs, and prep work for a number of workshops and a conference was conducted. Unfortunately, due to increasing restrictions towards the end of the year, both the conference and the workshops have been postponed until 2022.102Communications Media EngagementThe DPC published a total of 14 press releases over	the	course	of	2021,	leading	to	significant	coverage on international and national level media.	Specific	announcements	included	the launch of an inquiry into processing of personal data by the Department of Health, the achievements of the DPO enforcement programme	–	with	an	additional	170	organisations	brought	into	compliance,	and	the	confirmation	of	the	€450,000	fine	imposed	on	Twitter.Direct EngagementDespite the ongoing restrictions in place, direct engagement with stakeholders remained a high priority throughout 2021. The DPC continued to engage with a variety of both Irish and international stakeholders. The Commissioner and members	of	staff	contributed	to	over	90	events	in	2021. The majority of these events were virtual, but some were in-person events, in line with official	health	guidance	in	place	at	the	relevant	time.Guidance and Educational Material As part of the ongoing educational remit of the DPC, wide-ranging guidance on a variety of topics for both individuals and organisations was drafted and distributed throughout the year. Almost 10 items of guidance were produced in 2021, covering a wide range of issues ranging from the collection of personal data prior to viewing	a	property	to	vaccine	certificate	checks.	Of	particular	note	was	the	publication	of	the	finalised	Fundamentals for a Child-Oriented Approach to Data Processing in December, which received a warm reception from stakeholders across all channels.15 Annual Report 2021103Annual Report 2021Social mediaThe DPC’s social media platforms continued to play an important role in the communications of the DPC in 2021. The growth of the DPCs social media presence across Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn, was integral to the support of its awareness-raising and communications activities. The combined followers across the three platforms has increased by over 6,000 during 2021, to over 35,000. There was an organic reach of over 2.1 million, with strong engagement across the board. The DPC’s Social Media Policy can be viewed on our website.DPC WebsiteThe	DPC	website	(www.dataprotection.ie)	continues as an important resource for individuals and organisations throughout 2021. The DPC’s webforms provide website users with a convenient means of submitting complaints, breach notifications,	and	general	queries	directly	to	the	DPC. In addition, press releases, statements, and guidance on topical issues of relevance to our stakeholders were published frequently  throughout 2021.104Corporate DPC Funding and StaffingThe funding of the DPC by government has increased	year-on-year	from	€1.7	million	in	2013	to €19.1 million in 2021	(comprising	€12.76	million	in	pay	and	€6.36	million	in	non-pay	allocation).	The	funding	for	2021	represented	an	increase	of	€2.2M	on	the	2020	allocation.The DPC continued to progress the transfer of Corporate Functions from the Department of Justice in 2021. A Ministerial Order designating the Commissioner for Data Protection as the Appropriate	Authority,	under	Section	20(2)	of	the	Data Protection Act 2018, was signed in November 2021. Data Protection Commission employees, who were previously employed by the Department of Justice, are now employees of the DPC.The DPC has established a new Strategic Human Resources function, People and Learning, in support of the Data Protection Commission’s values, vision and mission, as outlined in our new Regulatory	Strategy,	2022	–	2027.It is the purpose of the new People and Learning function to support the whole organisation in meeting its goals through its most valuable resource, our people. In 2021, the new function continued to focus on an intensive recruitment programme, growing our headcount from 145 in 2020 to 190 at year-end. We will continue to drive recruitment during 2022, with a target headcount	of	260,	through	a	combination	of	open	recruitment, and the promotion and development of our own people. We will be strengthening and expanding our senior management structure, with the appointment of two key positions at Director level.  Work	began	on	a	Learning	&	Development	strategy in 2021, through a Skills Transformation lens. A new DPC Employee Engagement forum, together with the introduction of an Industrial Relations Framework, provides an employee voice mechanism which will contribute to enhancing trust, innovation, productivity and organisational improvement.16 Annual Report 2021105Annual Report 2021Corporate Governance The DPC has in place a Corporate Governance Framework which sets out how the DPC is governed and describes the structures, policies and processes that are in place in order for the DPC to deliver on its statutory obligations. Internal Control EnvironmentThe	Accounting	Officer’s	Statement	of	Internal	Financial Control for 2021 will be published on the DPC’s website with its Financial Statement later in the year.DPC Audit and Risk CommitteeIn line with the Corporate Governance Standard for	the	Civil	Service	(2015),	and	also	with	regard	to	the Code of Practice for the Governance of State Bodies	(2016),	the	DPC	established	its	own	Audit	and Risk Committee, as a Committee of the DPC, effective	from	1	January	2020.The members of the Committee are: 	Conan	McKenna	(chairperson);	 Karen Kehily;  Bride Rosney;  Michael Horgan; and  Graham Doyle.Eight meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee were held in 2021.Internal Audit functionThe Internal Audit function in the DPC is provided by an external service provider who provides regular reports to the DPC Audit and Risk Committee on internal audits carried out during the year. Risk ManagementThe Risk Management Policy of the DPC outlines its approach to risk management and the roles and responsibilities of the SMC, as well as managers	and	staff.	The	policy	also	outlines	the	key aspects of the risk-management process, and how the DPC determines and records risks to the organisation. The DPC implements the procedures outlined in its risk-management policy and maintains a risk register in line with DPER guidelines. This includes carrying out an appropriate assessment of the DPC’s principal risks, which involves describing the risk and associated	measures	or	strategies	to	effectively	control and mitigate these risks. The risk register is reviewed by members of the Senior Management Committee and Audit and Risk Committee on a regular basis.During 2021, the DPC continued to meet its on-going business objectives despite the continuation of the Covid-19 pandemic and resulting challenges through the continuation of measures enacted via the business continuity plan at the outset of the crisis in 2020; increasing the capacity of the organisation to work remotely and ensuring the safety	of	staff.	Senior	management	monitored	this	risk throughout 2021.Building organisational capacity to meet the enhanced functions of the organisation under the GDPR and national legislation continued to be a key priority for the DPC in 2021 and the challenges around meeting this objective were reviewed regularly as part of risk management.Official Languages Act 2003The	DPC’s	fifth	Language	Scheme	under	the	Official	Languages	Act	2003	commenced	with	effect	from	21	December	2020	and	remained	in	effect	for	a	period	of	three	years.	The DPC continues to provide, and improve Irish language services with enhancements of services, as per the Language Scheme held in regard. 106Freedom of Information (FOI) In	2021,	the	DPC	received	a	total	of	56	FOI	requests. Seven were granted, two were partially granted and 28 were deemed out of scope. The DPC’s regulatory activity is exempted from FOI requests in	order	to	preserve	the	confidentiality	of	our	supervisory, investigatory and enforcement activities. Nevertheless, the DPC is committed to providing transparent information to the public around	the	administration	of	its	office	and	use	of public resources. Granted 7 Part Granted 2 Refused	(OOS)	28	Withdrawn/Handled	Outside	FOI	8	Live	11	Total	requests	56Ethics in Public Office Act 1995 and Standards in Public Office Act 2001 The DPC was established under the Data Protection Act 2018 and operates in accordance with the provisions of that Act. Measures are in place	to	ensure	that	the	staff	of	the	DPC,	holding	designated positions, comply with the provisions of	the	Ethics	in	Public	Office	Act,	1995	and	the	Standards	in	Public	Office	Act,	2001.Regulation of Lobbying Act 2015 The Lobbying Act 2015 together with its associated code of conduct, regulations and guidelines aims to ensure that lobbying activities are conducted in accordance with public expectations of transparency. The Commissioner for Data Protection is a Designated	Public	Official	(DPO)	under	this	Act,	as	noted on the DPC website. Interactions between lobbying bodies and DPOs must be reported by	the	lobbyists.	The	Standards	in	Public	Office	Commission	(SIPO)	has	established	an	online	register of lobbying at www.lobbying.ie to facilitate this requirement. Engagement with Oireachtas membersIn accordance with the Department of Public Expenditure	(DPER)	Circular	25	of	2016,	the	DPC	provides a dedicated mailbox to address the queries of Oireachtas members and to receive feedback. Section 42 of the Irish Human Rights and Equality Commission Act 2014 - Public Sector Equality and Human Rights Duty The DPC seeks to meet obligations under Section 42 of the Irish Human Rights and Equality Commission Act 2014 and has put in place measures to ensure that consideration is given to human rights and equality in the development of policies, procedures and engagement with stakeholders	in	fulfilling	its	mandate	to	protect	the	fundamental right to data protection.7228811GrantedPart GrantedRefused (OOS) Withdrawn/Handled Outside FOI LiveTotal requests 56Freedom of Information Requests107Annual Report 2021A key achievement in 2021 was the publication of the	DPC	Regulatory	Strategy	2022	–	2027	which	outlines how the DPC will continue to protect the data protection rights of individuals and has particular regard to the Public Sector Equality and Human Rights Duty. For	staff	of	the	DPC,	an	Employee	Engagement	Forum was established following the transition of staff	to	the	DPC	as	its	own	employer	in	2021.	The	Forum	is	made	up	of	DPC	staff	from	all	grades	and	was formed having regard for gender balance.  Staff	of	the	DPC	had	the	opportunity	to	avail	of	training in 2021 including data protection. Well-being	of	staff	continued	to	be	a	key	focus	and	measures are in place to raise awareness of the supports	in	place	for	staff.	The DPC developed and implemented a number of ways to communicate with stakeholders in an accessible manner. The DPC website content along with other published information is designed with regard to the principles of plain English, and the DPC has also published audio resources. The Duty is also embedded into the Corporate Governance Framework and the Customer Charter and Action plan, published in 2021.During 2021, the DPC continued to review its service delivery and sought to ensure that it continued to be accessible to customers whilst DPC	staff	delivered	this	service	remotely.	To	support customers who may require assistance when engaging with the services provided by the DPC,	the	Accessibility	Officer	may	be	contacted	via	the channels listed on the website.Customer CharterIn 2021, the revised Customer Charter and accompanying Quality Customer Service Action Plan and Managing Unreasonable Behaviour and Contacts	Policy	for	2021	–	2023	were	published	on	the DPC website. There is a designated customer service comments mailbox for customers to engage with the DPC. Any and all comments received are taken into consideration as part of the on-going review of delivering quality customer service.108Appendices 16 Appendix 1: Report on Protected Disclosures received by the Data Protection Commission in 2021The policy operated by the Data Protection Commission	(DPC)	under	the	terms	of	the	Protected Disclosures Act 2014 is designed to facilitate and encourage all workers to raise internally genuine concerns about possible wrongdoing in the workplace so that these concerns can be investigated following the principles of natural justice and addressed in a manner appropriate to the circumstances of the case. Section 22 of the Protected Disclosures Act 2014 requires public bodies to prepare and publish, by 30 June in each year, a report in relation to the previous year in an anonymised form. Pursuant	to	this	requirement,	the	DPC	confirms	that in 2021: No	internal	protected	disclosures	(from	staff	of	the	DPC)	were	received.	 16	potential	protected	disclosures	(set	out	in	the	table	below)	were	received	from	individuals external to the DPC in relation to issues pertaining to data protection within other entities. These issue were raised with the DPC in its role as a ‘prescribed person’ as provided for under Section 7 of the Protected Disclosures	Act	(listed	in	SI	364/2020).	Four	of the disclosures were accepted as valid protected disclosures.109Annual Report 2021Reference NumberTypeDate ReceivedStatusOutcome01/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)01 February 2021OpenAccepted and referred for potential investigation. Ongoing at year-end.02/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)05 February 2021ClosedAccepted. The DPC engaged with the Data Controller on the issues raised.03/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)10 February 2021ClosedInsufficient	detail	provided,	complaint did not follow up when requested.04/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)30 March 2021ClosedNot accepted as a valid protected disclosure.05/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)01 June 2021ClosedNot accepted as a valid protected disclosure, referred as a potential complaint.06/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)12 June 2021ClosedInsufficient	detail	and	made	anonymously.07/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)24 June 2021ClosedNot a protected disclosure on follow up. Standard complaint made.08/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)14 July 2021ClosedNo information provided. Complaint did not follow up when requested. 09/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)31 August 2021ClosedNo allegations made. Complainant did not follow up when requested.10/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)07 September 2021ClosedInsufficient	detail.	Complainant	did not provide information when requested.11/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)09 September 2021ClosedNo allegations made. Complainant did not follow up when requested.12/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)08 October 2021ClosedNot a data protection matter, withdrawn by complainant.13/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)22 October 2021ClosedNo allegations made. Complainant did not make a disclosure when contacted.14/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)15 November 2021OpenAccepted and referred for potential investigation. Ongoing at year-end.15/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)15 December 2021ClosedNot accepted as a valid protected disclosure, referred as a potential complaint.16/2021Section 7 (external, to ‘prescribed	person’)17 December 2021OpenAccepted and referred for potential investigation. Ongoing at year-end.110Appendix 2: Report on Energy Usage at the Data Protection CommissionOverview of Energy UsageGeneralDuring 2020 and 2021, the DPC operated remote working	for	its	staff.	However,	all	offices	were	open	during	this	time	to	facilitate	staff	to	access	printing facilities, sign formal documents or arrange for registered post to be issued. Staff	were	also	on-site	to	ensure	regular	maintenance of equipment, issue equipment to	new	staff,	process	incoming	post,	implement	Covid-related protocols and accept deliveries. There has been a reduction in energy consumption in all buildings, with a 59% reduction recorded	in	the	Fitzwilliam	Square	office	for	2020.DUBLIN21 Fitzwilliam SquareThe	head	office	of	the	DPC	is	located	at	21	Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2. Energy consumption for	the	office	is	solely	electricity,	which	is	used	for	heating, lighting and equipment usage.21 Fitzwilliam Square is a protected building and is therefore exempt from the energy rating system. Satellite officeDPC	currently	maintains	additional	office	space	in	Dublin	to	accommodate	the	increase	in	staff	numbers.	This	office	was	sourced	by	OPW	and	DPC	took	occupancy	in	October	2018.	This	office	will be maintained until a new permanent head office	is	ready	to	facilitate	the	DPC’s	Dublin-based	staff	and	operations.	The	Office	is	828	sq.	mts	in	size.Energy consumption for the building is solely electricity, which is used for heating, lighting and equipment usage.The energy rating for the building is C2.PortarlingtonThe	Portarlington	office	of	the	DPC	has	an	area	of	444	sq.	mts	and	is	located	on	the	upper	floor	of	a	two-storey	building,	built	in	2006.Energy	consumption	for	the	office	is	electricity	for	lighting and equipment usage and natural gas for heating.The energy rating for the building is C1.Actions undertakenThe DPC participates in the SEAI online system for the purpose of reporting its energy usage in compliance with the European Communities (Energy	End-use	Efficiency	and	Energy	Services)	Regulations	2009	(S.I.	No	542	of	2009)The	energy	usage	for	the	office	for	2020	(last	validated	SEAI	figures	available)	is	as	follows:ElectricalNatural GasDublinFitzwilliam Sq.38,959KwHSatellite Office	62,545KwH	Portarlington24,000KwH39,566Overview of environmental policy /statement for the organisation The Data Protection Commission is committed to operate in line with Government of Ireland environmental and sustainability policies.Outline of environmental sustainability initiatives  Purchase of single use plastics ceased since January 2019 Ongoing	replacement	of	fluorescent	lighting	with	LED	lighting	in	Portarlington	office	as	units	fail or require replacement bulbs Sensor	lighting	in	use	in	one	office	(Satellite) Review	of	heating	system	in	one	office	underway	(Fitzwilliam	Square)111Annual Report 2021 New Tender competition completed for bin collection services to include compost bin service for Portarlington and Fitzwilliam Square. This was suspended for 2021 as there were	too	few	staff	in	the	offices	to	make	this	practical.Reduction of Waste Generated DPC use a default printer setting to print documents double-sided. DPC has also introduced dual monitors for staff	to	reduce	the	need	to	print	documents	to	review / compare against other documentation during casework. DPC provide General Waste and Recycling bins at	stations	throughout	the	offices.Maximisation of RecyclingDPC policy is to securely shred all waste paper. Consoles are provided at multiple locations throughout	the	offices.	Shredded	paper	is	recycled.Sustainable Procurement DPC procurements and processes are fully compliant with Sustainable Procurement. Catering contracts stipulate the exclusion of single-use plastics. 112Appendix 3: Barniville Judgment: Facebook Ireland Limited v. Data Protection Commission and Maximilian Schrems Facebook Ireland Limited v. Data Protection Commission and Maximilian Schrems (Notice Party) [High Court Record No. 617/2020 JR]Summary of the High Court Judgment of Mr. Justice Barniville delivered on 14 May 20211. Background On	16	July	2020,	the	Court	of	Justice	of	the	European	Union	(“CJEU”)	delivered	its	decision	in	proceedings titled Data Protection Commissioner v. Facebook Ireland Limited and Maximilian Schrems, Case No. C-311/18. In its judgment, the CJEU held that, where personal data is transferred from the EU to a third country, a level of protection equivalent to that provided by the EU must be provided by the third country. The CJEU found that such protection is not available in the United States and on that basis it struck down the EU-US Privacy Shield transfer mechanism. Whilst noting that the Standard Contractual Clauses (“SCCs”)	may provide a basis for the lawful transfer of data to a third country which does not itself provide a level of protection equivalent to that available in the EU, the Court noted that a case by case assessment is required in respect of each such transfer to determine whether, on the particular facts of the transfer under scrutiny,	the	SCCs	provide	sufficient	protection	(in	and	of	themselves)	for	the	personal	data	being	transferred to the third country, or whether safeguards need to be adopted supplemental to the SCCs, or, as may be the case in some instances,	the	SCCs	do	not	offer	a	sufficient	level of protection, even if supplemented with additional safeguards. 2. Facts Following the delivery of the CJEU’s judgment, the DPC wrote to Facebook Ireland Limited (“Facebook Ireland”)	on	28	August	2020	to	notify	it of the commencement of an “own volition” inquiry (“the Transfers Inquiry”)	pursuant	to	Section 110 of the Data Protection Act, 2018 (the “2018 Act”).	The	DPC’s	letter	noted	that,	in	its	inquiry, it would examine (and determine the lawfulness	of)	data	transfers	made	by	Facebook	Ireland to its US-based parent company, Facebook Inc. via SCCs. The data transfers in question concern the personal data of individuals based in the European Union/ European Economic Area.	The	letter	also	flagged	that	the	DPC	would	determine	whether	(and,	if	so,	which)	corrective	power should be exercised by the DPC pursuant to	Article	58(2)	of	the	GDPR	in	the	event	that	the DPC found that Facebook Ireland was acting unlawfully	and	infringing	Article	46(1)	of	the	GDPR. (This article requires that there must be appropriate safeguards, and enforceable rights and legal remedies for data subjects, where data transfers are taking place to a location outside of the EU in respect of which there is no European Commission	adequacy	decision).The DPC’s letter also enclosed a Preliminary Draft Decision (“PDD”),	the	purpose	of	which	was	to	identify the issues the subject of the Transfers Inquiry and to set out the DPC’s preliminary views on those issues. As such, the document served as a preliminary draft of a draft decision which, having	first	considered	such	submissions	as	may	be received from Facebook Ireland, the DPC would in due course submit to the co-decision-making procedure	provided	for	at	Article	60	of	the	GDPR.	113Annual Report 2021Having noted that no action would be taken by the DPC pursuant to the PDD itself, Facebook Ireland was invited to submit a written response to the issues canvassed in the PDD within a period of 21 days. Facebook Ireland objected to the DPC’s decision to circulate the PDD at the commencement of the Transfers Inquiry. It issued judicial review proceedings against the DPC and obtained a stay (stop)	on	the	inquiry	until	such	time	as	its	judicial	review proceedings were heard and decided. Mr Schrems, sought to be, and was subsequently, added as a notice party to the proceedings as an interested party. In its proceedings, Facebook Ireland relied on the following	grounds	of	challenge	(amongst	others):	(1)	Even	though	the	DPC	had	stated	that	no	action would be taken on foot of the PDD, it claimed that the PDD and the DPC’s procedures were nonetheless amenable to judicial review; (2)	It	claimed	that	the	DPC	had	an	obligation	to	conduct an investigation prior to issuing the PDD; (3)	It	claimed	that	the	DPC	had	acted	in	breach	of its legitimate expectations in terms of how the Transfers Inquiry would be conducted. This submission was two-fold:-(a)	Firstly,	Facebook	Ireland	submitted	that it had a legitimate expectation that the procedures set out in the DPC’s 2018 Annual Report in respect of the progression of inquiries would be applied to the Transfers Inquiry. Asserting that the procedure adopted by the DPC differed	significantly	from	its	published	procedures, Facebook Ireland claimed that the DPC was acting unlawfully. (b)	Secondly,	Facebook	Ireland	submitted	that the Transfers Inquiry should be conducted in a manner similar to other inquiries conducted by the DPC. Facebook Ireland maintained that this was the only inquiry in which the DPC had issued a PDD at the outset. Facebook Ireland also noted that the DPC did not provide reasons for departing from its previous practices. (4)	Facebook	Ireland	claimed	that	its	right	to	fair	procedures was breached, e.g. because it was given just 21 days to make submissions in response to the PDD. (5)	Facebook	Ireland	claimed	that	by	issuing	the	PDD at the outset, the DPC had prematurely come to a judgment on the issues to be decided in the Transfers Inquiry. (6)	It	was	claimed	that	the	DPC	had	failed	to	take into account relevant considerations. In particular, the DPC had not awaited publication of the European Data Protection Board (“EDPB”)	guidelines/	recommendations	to assist controllers and processors in relation to the use of what are called “supplementary measures” to ensure adequate protection for data subjects when transferring data to third countries. (7)	Facebook	Ireland	claimed	that	the	DPC	had	breached Facebook Ireland’s right to equal treatment and non-discrimination.(8)	It	was	claimed	that	the	DPC	had	breached	its	obligation to act proportionately by subjecting Facebook Ireland to simultaneous inquiries. In other words, Facebook Ireland contended that it was disproportionate for Facebook Ireland to be subjected to two simultaneous inquiries in relation to substantially the same subject matter, namely, the Transfers Inquiry and	its	(separate)	consideration	of	 Mr. Schrems’ complaint. (9)	Facebook	Ireland	also	claimed	that	the	DPC breached its duty of candour in the way in which it defended the proceedings. In other words, Facebook Ireland believed that the DPC breached this duty by failing to answer questions raised by Facebook in correspondence between the parties. The DPC opposed Facebook Ireland’s case on all grounds as follows: (1)	The	DPC	submitted	that	the	issuing	of	decision the PDD was not amenable to judicial review.(2)		The	DPC	also	rejected	Facebook	Ireland’s	assertion that no investigation was conducted by the DPC before issuing the PDD. 114(3)	The	DPC	disputed	Facebook	Ireland’s	allegation that Facebook Ireland had a legitimate expectation as to how inquiries would be conducted. In doing so, the DPC rejected Facebook Ireland’s contention that the 2018 Annual Report or material published on the DPC’s website created any legitimate expectation on the part of Facebook Ireland in this regard. The DPC also maintained that it did carry out an investigation prior to commencing the inquiry and that it would continue to carry out its investigation if the inquiry was permitted to continue. The DPC also referred to the express terms of the relevant section of the 2018 Annual Report (pages	28-29)	which	noted	that	the	report	was	“not determinative of the precise steps which will be followed in each inquiry” and that those steps would depend on the “nature, circumstances, scope and subject matter of the inquiry”. The DPC also emphasised that the “provisional sequencing” for inquiries (as it was described in the 2018 Annual Report)	was	expressly	stated	to	be	“subject	to	changes”. (4)	The	DPC	opposed	Facebook	Ireland’s	allegations of breaches of fair procedures and noted that no extension of time in which to respond to the PDD was sought by Facebook Ireland, nor was any extension of time refused by the DPC. The DPC maintained that, in proceeding as it did, it sought to give full and	timely	effect	to	the	CJEU	judgment	of	16	July 2020. The DPC also rejected accusations of premature judgment and submitted that the views set out in the PDD were expressly provided to be preliminary only and were subject to any further submissions made by Facebook Ireland. The DPC emphasised that Facebook Ireland had been invited to submit any further information it felt was necessary in response to the DPC’s preliminary views as set out in the PDD. (5)	The	DPC	maintained	that	it	was	and	is	entitled and obliged to proceed as it did, notwithstanding the absence of guidelines or recommendations from the EDPB. (6)	The	DPC	disputed	the	allegations	of	unequal	treatment and discrimination. (7)	The	DPC	also	disagreed	with	Facebook	Ireland’s allegations of a breach of proportionality, by reason of the existence of the inquiry and the ongoing complaint by Mr Schrems. Therefore, it did not accept that being subjected to parallel processes gave rise to any disproportionality. The DPC noted that the GDPR and the 2018 Act envisaged that both forms of inquiry were available to the DPC. (8)	The	DPC	also	rejected	any	breach	of	the	duty	of candour in its defence of the proceedings. As a notice party to the proceedings, Mr Schrems:- (1)	Supported	the	quashing	of	the	PDD,	claiming	that it infringed his legitimate expectation that his complaint would be determined by the	DPC	following	the	CJEU’s	judgment	of	16	July 2020. (2)	Also	supported	Facebook	Ireland’s	submission	in relation to the disproportionality of the DPC conducting simultaneous inquiries. (3)	Opposed	the	allegation	that	the	DPC	had	departed from its published procedures in issuing the PDD and commencing the own-violation inquiry. Mr. Schrems submitted that, in any event, the 2018 Annual Report did not give rise to any legitimate expectation that the particular procedures set out would be followed in all cases and noted that the procedures referred to were stated to be “illustrative”.(4)	Disagreed	with	Facebook	Ireland’s	submission	that the DPC was obliged to await publication of the EDPB guidelines before proceeding with its inquiry. Mr Schrems noted the DPC’s obligation under the GDPR and the judgment in	the	CJEU	judgment	of	16	July	2020	to	act	expeditiously. On that basis, Mr Schrems also disputed Facebook Ireland’s submission that	it	was	afforded	insufficient	time	to	make	submissions in response to the PDD. It should be noted that the judicial review proceedings concerned the procedural rights and obligations of the DPC, Facebook Ireland and Mr Schrems in the context of the DPC’s Transfers Inquiry. The proceedings were therefore not concerned with the merits of the preliminary views expressed by the DPC in its PDD. 115Annual Report 20213. Judgment of the High Court  (Mr Justice Barniville) In his judgment, Mr Justice Barniville considered the following points:- (1)	Whether	the	DPC’s	decision	to	issue	the	PDD	and the procedures which the DPC chose to adopt in respect of the inquiry are amendable to judicial review. (2)	Whether	the	DPC	had	failed	to	carry	out	an investigation/inquiry prior to reaching a decision in breach of the 2018 Act, the GDPR and	the	judgment	of	the	CJEU	of	16	July	2020.	(3)	Whether	the	PDD	and	the	procedure	adopted	by the DPC was a departure from the DPC’s published procedures and in breach of Facebook Ireland’s legitimate expectations. (4)	Whether	the	DPC	breached	Facebook	Ireland’s right to fair procedures in the inquiry	by	affording	Facebook	Ireland	a	period	of	three	weeks	(21	days)	to	provide	its	submissions to the DPC. (5)	Whether	the	DPC	breached	Facebook	Ireland’s right to fair procedures by reaching a premature judgment on the inquiry. (6)	Whether	the	DPC	breached	Facebook	Ireland’s right to fair procedures by adopting a procedure in which the Commissioner for Data Protection was involved in the investigation and was also the sole decision-maker.(7)	Whether	the	proposed	adoption	of	a	single	decision to cover infringement and corrective measures was ultra vires to Section 111 of the 2018 Act. (8)	Whether	the	DPC	was	required	to	await	the	recommendations/guidance from the EPDB before deciding to proceed with the own-volition inquiry and/or whether the DPC failed to take into account the timing of the EDPB recommendations/guidance as a relevant factor in its decision to proceed with the inquiry.(9)	Whether,	in	deciding	to	commence	an	inquiry with respect to Facebook Ireland and not other persons or bodies involved in EU-US data transfers, the DPC unlawfully discriminated against Facebook Ireland and/or breached its right to equality under Irish and EU law. (10)	Whether	the	DPC	acted	disproportionality	in commencing the own-volition inquiry involving Facebook Ireland while its consideration of Mr Schrems’ complaint was still ongoing. (11)	Whether	the	DPC	failed	to	set	out	adequate	reasons for various decisions which it had taken in connection with the own-volition inquiry involving Facebook Ireland, including its decision to adopt the particular procedure which it decided to adopt notwithstanding its published procedures for inquiries. (12)	Whether	the	DPC	was	in	breach	of	its	duty	of	candour and, if so, the consequences of such a breach. (13)	Whether	the	proceedings	by	Facebook	Ireland	were an ''abuse of process'' as had originally been contended by the DPC. (It should be noted that during the course of the hearing, the DPC withdrew its allegations of abuse of process.)	Mr Justice Barniville concluded that the DPC’s decision to issue the PDD and to adopt the procedures it did are amenable to judicial review on the basis that the commencement of the inquiry by the DPC had legal consequences for Facebook Ireland. In considering Facebook Ireland’s submission on whether the DPC had an obligation to conduct an investigation before issuing the PDD, Mr Justice Barniville referred to provisions of the 2018 Act and noted that the DPC has a wide discretion to regulate its own procedures. Noting that the PDD was used to commence the inquiry and to notify Facebook Ireland of the preliminary views of the DPC regarding the lawfulness of data transfers to its US-based parent, Mr Justice Barniville was satisfied	that	the	DPC	had	not	reached	any	final	decision on the issues contained within the PDD. 116On the question as to whether the legitimate expectations of Facebook Ireland had been breached by the procedure applied by the DPC, Mr Justice Barniville reviewed the relevant sections of	the	DPC’s	2018	Annual	Report	(pages	28	-	29),	together with information published on the DPC’s website. Mr Justice Barniville held that this information did not give rise to any legitimate expectation on the part of Facebook Ireland, as claimed. In particular, Mr Justice Barniville highlighted the fact that the DPC had a wide discretion under the 2018 Act to regulate its own procedures. Mr Justice Barniville also referred to the wording contained in the DPC’s 2018 Annual Report and noted that there were express ''qualifications''	to	the	effect	that	the	procedures	described could be altered by the DPC. With	regard	to	the	21-day	period	afforded	to	Facebook Ireland to make submissions to the DPC, Mr Justice Barniville had regard to the proceedings that	gave	rise	to	the	CJEU	judgment	of	16	July	2020	and noted that, in that particular context, he was not	satisfied	that	the	21-day	time	period	provided	for was inadequate, as contended for by Facebook Ireland. In considering Facebook Ireland’s submission that that the PDD constituted a premature judgment by the DPC, Mr Justice Barniville held that the PDD was	clearly	a	preliminary	decision,	and	not	a	final	decision. Mr Justice Barniville considered that there was nothing impermissible about placing an onus on Facebook Ireland to change the DPC’s views based on the PDD and that it was fair for the DPC to adopt the procedure taken. Mr Justice Barniville rejected Facebook Ireland’s submission that it was treated unequally and discriminated against by the DPC. While Facebook Ireland had claimed that other organisations were not subject to the same investigations by the	DPC,	Mr	Justice	Barniville	was	satisfied	that	the particular focus on Facebook Ireland by the DPC was clear, given Mr Schrems’ initial complaint against Facebook Ireland. Mr Justice Barniville also noted that the PDD provided clear reasoning as to why the DPC had initiated an inquiry against Facebook Ireland. On this basis, Mr Justice Barniville	was	satisfied	that	the	DPC	was	not	obliged to provide reasons for not pursing similar inquiries against entities similar to Facebook Ireland. Mr Justice Barniville further held that there was no breach of candour in the proceedings by the DPC. 4. Conclusion Ultimately, Mr Justice Barniville refused Facebook Ireland’s application for judicial review and held that Facebook Ireland had failed to identify any unfairness in the procedure adopted by the DPC in issuing the PDD. As such, Facebook Ireland’s case was dismissed. Facebook Ireland was ordered to pay 90% of the DPC’s legal costs, and the costs of the Notice Party.	 117Annual Report 2021Appendix 4: Audits of Political PartiesIn 2021, the DPC decided to audit certain data processing activities by all twenty-six registered political parties in the State. The audits were conducted	under	Article	58.1(b)	of	the	GDPR,	which empowers each data protection supervisory authority to carry out investigations in the form of data protection audits. The decision to conduct the audits followed reports in the media concerned the alleged storing by one political party, Sinn Féin, of personal information of millions of voters on an internal party database and by further media articles that alleged that members of some political parties posed as market researchers in conducting opinion polls. The DPC audits of political parties examined the	designation	of	data	protection	officers;	the use of Registers of Electors and Marked Electoral Registers; Party Membership/Volunteers Databases; Databases of Electors/Voters; Data Protection Impact Assessments; and Market Research/Opinion Polling.On	10	December	2021,	the	final	audit	reports	were issued to all twenty-six political parties. Drawing from the contents of those twenty-six audit reports, the DPC published an overall report entitled “Data Protection Audit of Political Parties in Ireland” on 20 December 2021, which highlighted	the	main	findings	of	its	data	protection	audits and outlined the key recommendations made by the DPC to the political parties concerned. Below is a brief synopsis of key points from within the overall report. Designation of Data  Protection OfficerData controllers are obliged to designate a data protection	officer	where	their	core	activities	consist of processing on a large scale of special categories of personal data, such as data revealing political opinions. During the course of the audits, the DPC considered the extent to which political parties process, on a large scale, personal data revealing political opinions. As data protection legislation does	not	prescribe	a	figure	to	quantify	the	term	‘on a large scale’ for such data processing, the DPC decided	to	guide	where	that	figure	should	be	set,	with	the	benefit	of	information	obtained	from	the	political parties during the audits. The DPC determined that the appropriate threshold that should be met in order for a political party to be considered to process personal data revealing political opinions on a large scale is 30,000 records of data subjects. Arising from that guidance and based on the information supplied by the political parties to the DPC, it follows that only two political parties, namely Fianna Fáil and Sinn Féin, are required to designate	data	protection	officers.	Both	have	done	so. There is no requirement on the other political parties	to	designate	data	protection	officers	while	the level of data processing revealing political opinions remains below the threshold but they may choose to voluntarily designate a data protection	officer	if	they	wish.	Party Membership/Volunteers DatabasesThe audits found that the dominant level of data processing by political parties occurs in respect of the personal data of party members and volunteers as most parties keep and process membership or volunteer records. Accordingly,	the	majority	(approx.	60%)	of	the	recommendations made in the audit reports related to the processing of those records.118Register of Electors and Marked Electoral RegisterThe use of data from the Register of Electors and the Marked Electoral Register, while not widespread across all political parties, attracted some attention in the audits with regard to the need to comply with transparency requirements by	updating	privacy	policies	to	reflect	this	data	processing activity and the need to set data retention periods to comply with the requirements of the principle of storage limitation. Sinn Féin’s Abú DatabaseChapter Four of the overall report dealt exclusively with Sinn Féin’s Abú database, it being the only political party in Ireland that maintains a database that encompasses electors/voters data from all constituencies. The audit of Sinn Féin considered in detail the matter of the legal basis for the Abú database and found it was not necessary to make recommendations in that regard. However, one of the main data protection concerns that arose related to transparency and a recommendation was made in particular with regard to drawing attention to the existence of the Abú database by means of canvassing and electioneering literature. The audit also found that certain data protection issues of concern that had emerged in the media earlier in the year were all remedied by the party before the commencement of the audit. These included the designation of a data protection officer,	the	carrying	out	of	a	data	protection	impact assessment in relation to the Abú database and the publication of a privacy notice on its website with regard to the Abú database. Market Research/Opinion PollingOnly seven political parties were found to have conducted market research or opinion polling through the deployment of their own members, supporters	or	activists.	The	DPC	was	satisfied	from	the	findings	of	the	audits	that	no	personal	data	was processed during those activities by the six of the political parties concerned and, on that basis, no data protection concerns arose for further consideration by the DPC. In the case of the seventh party, Aontú, one recommendation was made by the DPC following its conduct of a survey in an overt manner which involved the processing of personal data of participants. Social MediaNo evidence was found during the audits that suggests that Sinn Féin has been using its social media presence, or its activities on social media platforms, to obtain or otherwise process personal data to enrich either the Abú database or its party membership database.ConclusionOver eighty recommendations were made by the DPC to political parties and some of those recommendations	set	down	specific	time	limits	for	implementation. The DPC continues its oversight and supervision of the political parties concerned to ensure that the recommendations are fully implemented on time. 119Annual Report 2021Appendix 5: Financial Statement for the year 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 and the DPC’s Statement of Internal ControlsThe Financial Statement of the Data Protection Commission for the year 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 and its Statement of Internal Controls for the same period are in preparation by the DPC and will be appended to this report following the completion of an audit in respect of 2021 by the Comptroller and Auditor General.120CommissionerHelen DixonCorporate Aﬀairs, Media & Communications Graham Doyle Operational PerformanceEmma Flood Technology AdvisoryDylan CorcoranTechnology and Operational PerformanceUltan O’CarrollCorporate Services & ProcurementTom WalshCommunications &Media; DPO NetworkMB Donnelly FinanceGraham Geoghegan Governance & RiskAnne PickettAssistantCommissioner Mark ShannonPeople and Learning Michelle CoughlanIT Service and AssuranceIan HughesInquiries CommitteeManagement Senior Legal AdvisorDiarmuid GouldingSenior Legal AdvisorFleur O’SheaSenior Legal AdvisorJoanne NearyHead of Legal AﬀairsAnna MorganSenior Legal AdvisorMeg MacMahonSenior Regulatory LawyerCian O’BrienChildren’s Data Protection PolicyJennifer DolanSupervisionDavid MurphySupervisionGarrett O’NeillSupervision Gary RussellHead of Regulatory ActivityDale SunderlandHead of Regulatory ActivityJohn O’DwyerSupervisionGemma HarrisHead of Regulatory Activity Tony DelaneyCross-Border InquiriesNeasa MooreBreach Inquiries  (National)Niall CavanaghBreach Inquiries (Cross-Border)Elissa MoynihanSpecial InvestigationsSiobhán BrownCross-BorderComplaint HandlingHead of Regulatory ActivityColum WalshCertiﬁcationDylan CorcoranSenior InvestigatorNicola BaylyInternational Aﬀairs; GDPR One Stop Shop OperationsAlison KingPolicy and GuidanceSarah LeaEarly Resolution (National), Breach Complaint Handling, Breach Notiﬁcation Assessment Unit, Determination Assessment Unit     Sandra SkehanNational Inquiries Anne SloweyInformation and AssessmentIan ChambersNational Complaint HandlingMarguerite WardLED Complaints & Inquiries; EU Databases; Borders, Transport, Law Enforcement;Direct InterventionEunice DelaneyCross-Border Complaint Handling and Inquiries (RtbF & AR), CSA Complaint Handling inc. Decision AssessmentGráinne HawkesInternational Transfers including BCRsNicola CooganAccess Request Complaint Handling and InquiriesRuairí HolohanAccess Request Complaint HandlingStephen RyanAccess Request Complaint HandlingElizabeth FinnEnforcement, Prosecutions and ePrivacy InvestigationsAntoinette Gavin