 

 

 

press release

 

YouTube in class?

Erfurt, March 30, 2021

 
Outrage everywhere: Now the TLfDI also bans YouTube for

Pupils.

does he have this Of course not.

In a letter to the school management, the TLfDI expressed concerns

brought that a school as the person responsible for YouTube, especially in long-distance

teaching begins. Why?

When a school “gives up” a YouTube video, the child is watching the

Distance lessons usually view the specific video on their private device.

At the instigation of the school, it thus supplies evaluable, profileable data

Google or third parties. A data protection authority cares. Because for one

the school does not have such YouTube use for which the school is responsible

legal basis. In addition, the ECJ ruling C 311/18 (“Schrems II”) from July

2020 that data transmissions to the USA are not secure.

 

The private use of YouTube videos by children and young people

on the other hand, is part of their everyday life - but this is not an issue for school

Privacy. This is so even if a student of his own accord,

independently, i.e. without being obliged to do so by the school,

watching a YouTube video - e.g. for completing a homework assignment. For

Such self-responsible surfing behavior by students is the

School management not responsible.

 

Are there any other solutions?

One can ensure that the rights of important educational videos are obtained directly from the author

be acquired. These videos could then easily find their place on the
Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
Fax: 0361 57 3112904
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 


 
Download in the media library of the Thuringian school portal. Then it would be Youtube

- 2 -

left out. In most cases, a letter to the author is sufficient.

 

Finally, the TLfDI would like to point out that there is a

Another hurdle there that Google

(YouTube) itself: The

YouTube's terms of use only permit purely private use.

It says in the Permissions and Restrictions section:

However, use of the service is subject to certain restrictions. the following is

not permitted:

[…]

9. Use the Service for non-private, non-commercial use

View or listen to content (such as a public screening of videos

or streaming music).”

(Quotation of terms of use; https://www.youtube.com/t/terms, accessed on January 21, 2021)

 

The TLfDI is unable to recognize that the school use of Youtube

represents private use.

 

 

Questions: Gladly - bring it on!

 
 

 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

