1/16

 File No.: PS/00251/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 5, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against FUTURE VINLINE SL
(hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00251/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On 01/10/2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant),
through which he makes a claim against FUTURE VINLINE SL with NIF
B67626473
the website
http://www.vinogrado.com, due to the lack of a privacy policy appropriate to the
GDPR.

the claimed one),

(onwards,

title of

 

 

The claim indicates the following, in relation to the matter of protection of
data:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

“When trying to make a claim, I observe in the comments, as well as in the
information that exists on the web, which may be a fraudulent page. Nope
there is no information on data protection, there is no phone number of
contact and the email that contains info@vinogrado.com, returns the emails, so
it is impossible to contact”.

Based on the foregoing, in the opinion of the claimant, the privacy policy contained in the
website https://www.vinogrado.com does not comply with data protection regulations
of a personal nature, since it does not provide the user with clear and complete information
about your treatment. Along with the claim, provide, among other things, a copy of the
following documents:

- A copy of the contact form that includes spaces for data
identification of the person, specifically those related to the name, email and
phone number. Likewise, the document, under the rubric “What is in your
mind?" allows the user to formulate any type of doubt or opinion about
the services offered on the web.

- A copy of the privacy policy of the website https://www.vinogrado.com in
which indicates the following: "All communication with Future Vinline S. L., by
any means, either through your email address or the
forms present in this "web site", supposes the express consent
so that your personal data is incorporated into files owned by
FUTURE VINLINE SL…”.

In an independent paragraph, it adds: “These personal data will be
treated in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of 13
December, Protection of Personal Data. Therefore, the
The interested party may exercise the right of access, rectification, cancellation and
opposition with respect to the personal data contained in the expressed
files, being able to revoke your consent in writing at any
moment. They may do so by written communication addressed to
FUTURE VINLINE SL…”.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced, the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection verified that the web page https://vinogrado.com to date
02/10/2021 continued without adapting its privacy policy to the provisions of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

Prior to admitting this claim for processing, the Agency gave
transfer of it to the claimed one on 02/24/2021, in accordance with the provisions
in article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD). I know
produced a first notification attempt through the Notification Service
Electronic, being rejected on 03/07/2021 once the deadline for
ten days set. However, on 03/12/2021 the respondent received notification to
through postal mail, as stated in the Receipt Notice issued by Correos, without
that a response has been received.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by agreement on 05/21/2021.

FOURTH: Dated 06/24/2021, by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection
access to the information available on the claimed entity in “Axesor”. In
said website does not contain any information regarding the turnover, since it was constituted on
05/29/2020. However, it is indicated that its capital is 500,000 euros and that it is a
SMEs.

FIFTH: On 06/29/2021 the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection agreed to the
website http://www.vinogrado.com, being verified, on the one hand, that the
claimed acknowledges being the owner of the website and, on the other hand, that its privacy policy
continues to be the same one that appears in one of the documents provided by the
claimant and indicated in the “Facts” section, first point, of this agreement. In
this sense, among the information that is collected in the section “Privacy Policy”
Returns and Reimbursement, General Conditions” indicates the following: “The registration
in the Portal and the use of the services implies that your data as a User will be transferred to
form part of the files of Vinogrado, and its treatment will be in accordance with the provisions
in the Privacy Policy, which the User expressly declares to know and accept”.

With regard to the collection of personal data, on the website there are two
forms, contact and registration. The first of them allows any user
of the web page make the queries it deems appropriate, having to complete
for this the corresponding form that collects as mandatory the name and
email, but not the phone number. For its part, the registration form only
collects the personal data of those who want to become customers, such as the
name, surnames and email. Also, if you buy any product,
bank data is also collected when having to enter the data of the
card.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD states that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

The facts revealed by the complainant are specified in the lack of policy
of privacy of the web https://www.vinogrado.com adapted to the regulations of
protection of personal data, by not providing the user with information
clear and complete information on the processing of your personal data.

Article 5 of the RGPD regarding the principles that must govern the processing of data
personal mentions among them that of transparency. Section 1 of the precept
provides: “Personal data will be:

a)

processed lawfully, loyally and transparently in relation to the interested party (in-
teresado (“legality, loyalty and transparency”)”

Manifestation of the principle of transparency is the obligation incumbent on the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

responsible for the treatment of informing, in the terms of article 13 of the RGPD, to the
owner of the personal data when they are obtained directly from the interested party:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
presenter;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
treatment schedule;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate ses of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,
in your case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision
adequacy assessment by the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated
in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference
lack of adequate or appropriate safeguards and means of obtaining
a copy of these or the fact that they have been loaned.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained,
them, the following information necessary to guarantee fair data processing and
transparent:

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or
the limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right
cho to data portability;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent
at any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on
sado in the consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obligated
to provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences
acknowledgments that you do not provide such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, inform
significant information about applied logic, as well as the importance and con-
planned sequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the data controller plans the further processing of personal data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, will provide the
received, prior to such further processing, information about that other purpose and
any additional relevant information pursuant to paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
measure in which the interested party already has the information.”

In that sense, Recital 60 of the RGPD says that "The principles of treatment
fair and transparent demand that the interested party be informed of the existence of the operation.
tion of treatment and its purposes. The data controller must provide the interested
determined how much additional information is necessary to guarantee a treatment
fair and transparent, taking into account the specific circumstances and context in
personal data is processed. The interested party must also be informed of the existence
profiling and the consequences of profiling. Yes
personal data is obtained from the interested parties, they must also be informed of
if they are obliged to provide them and the consequences if they do not do so.”

Article 13 of the RGPD provides that when personal data is collected from a
interested party -what happens in the present case- the person in charge of the treatment is
obliged, at the time you obtain them, to inform the owner of the data of all the
aspects covered by the aforementioned precept.

In the privacy policy that we have examined, all the information should have been included.
information required by law. However, only the data of
contact (name of the entity, its address, the CIF and its email) and this paragraph: "These
personal data will be treated in accordance with the provisions of the Organic Law
15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data. So,
The interested party may exercise the right of access, rectification, cancellation and opposition
with respect to the personal data contained in the aforementioned files,
You can revoke your consent in writing at any time.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

In accordance with article 13 of the RGPD, the claimed party, in its capacity as responsible for the
treatment, was obliged to include in its privacy policy various information
which he has dispensed with entirely. Specifically, it is required to report on
the purposes of the treatment to which the collected personal data will be used, not
being able to subsume within this question the mere reference that appears in the
web when it indicates that the personal data will be incorporated into files owned
of the one claimed, since that does not detail the purpose that determines both the collection and
the treatment of these. Nor does it inform, as was its obligation, of the legal basis
of the treatment; nor of the recipients of the personal data; of the period during
which will retain the same or, not being possible to set a deadline, on the criteria
employees to determine. Regarding the obligation to inform users
on the possibility of exercising the rights of access, rectification, deletion,
of limitation of its treatment, of opposition to the treatment and of portability of the
data; the privacy policy lists those contemplated by the repealed Law
Organic 15/1999. Nor does it inform about the right to file a claim with the
controlling authority.

In short, the privacy policy offered by the one claimed on the web
https://www.vinogrado.com must provide the information established in article 13
of the RGPD in a simple and understandable way.

The privacy policy used violates article 13 of the RGPD conduct that is
Subsumable in article 83.5 of the RGPD that provides: "Infringements of the
following provisions will be sanctioned in accordance with section 2, with fines
administrative fees of 20,000,000 Eur maximum or, in the case of a company, of
an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% % of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

(...)

a)
b) The rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

For the mere purposes of prescription, article 72.1 h) of the LOPDGDD qualifies as very
serious “The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law”. The limitation period for offenses
very serious cases provided for in Organic Law 3/2018 is three years.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

III

Article 58.2 of the RGPD establishes:

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

a) (...)

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;"

c) (...)

d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

(...)

i) impose an administrative fine under Article 83, in addition to or instead of
of the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case”.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in letter d)
above is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

In the present case, taking into account the exposed facts and without prejudice to what
results from the instruction of the procedure, it is considered that the sanction that
should be imposed is an administrative fine. The fine imposed must
be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the
article 83.1 of the RGPD. In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed,
to observe the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, which indicates:

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor

to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the

treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put

remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in
related to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

 j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms

certificates approved in accordance with article 42,

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments

of personal data.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission

of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

data.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between them and any interested party”.

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the sanction of
fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in article 83.5 b)
of the RGPD, in the first assessment they are estimated concurrent as aggravating
the following aspects that reveal greater unlawfulness and/or culpability in the
defendant's conduct:

-

-

-

The nature, seriousness and duration of the infraction. The claim continues without
modify the privacy policy of your website.

The negligence in the infringement. In the present case, we cannot say that the
claimed has acted maliciously, although his conduct reveals
a serious lack of diligence.

The way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement. The
The way in which the AEPD has been informed has been through the interposition of the
complaint by the claimant.

- The degree of cooperation with the AEPD in order to remedy the
infringement. After the claim has been notified to the claimed party for the purposes of
to be able to answer and, where appropriate, take measures to avoid the infraction, the AEPD
has not received any response.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed
by violating the provisions of article 13, it allows setting as an initial assessment a
fine of 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros).

IV

If the infraction is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
appropriate measures to adjust their actions to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to the
which each control authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the
responsible so that within the period determined, adapt the data processing
that it carries out to the data protection regulations in accordance with what is indicated
in the preceding Foundations of Law.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
being able to motivate such conduct the opening of a subsequent administrative procedure
sanctioning

v

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the claim has violated article 13 of the RGPD since
the privacy policy of the website https://www.vinogrado.com does not contain the various
information contained in that precept. This behavior is typified in the article
83.5 b) of the GDPR. At this stage of the procedure, it is deemed appropriate to sanction such
conduct with an administrative fine of €10,000 (ten thousand euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START SANCTION PROCEDURE against FUTURE VINLINE SL, with
NIF B67626473, for the alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD typified in the
Article 83.5 b) of the aforementioned Regulation.

SECOND: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(LPACAP), the sanction that could correspond would be an ADMINISTRATIVE FINE
of 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

Likewise, the imputed infraction, if confirmed, may lead to the imposition of
measures in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD.

THIRD: APPOINT R.R.R. as instructor. and, as secretary, to S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to FUTURE VINLINE SL, with NIF
B67626473, granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
this procedure, equivalent in this case to 2,000 euros. with the app
of this reduction, the sanction would be established at 8,000 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 8,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 6,000 euros (six thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (8,000 or 6,000), you must make it effective through your income
in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

935-200320

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On July 31, 2021, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 6,000 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00251/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to FUTURE VINLINE SL.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-160721

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

