                                                                                                                            * UOOUX009KY3L *

Ref. UOOU-01001 / 16-21

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

DECISION

 
Chairwoman of the Office for Personal Data Protection, as the appellate body competent pursuant to § 2,
§ 29 and § 32 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., On the protection of personal data and on the amendment of certain acts,
and pursuant to § 10 and § 152 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., the Administrative Procedure Code, decided on 25 May 2016
according to § 152 par. 5 let. b) of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., as follows:

 

Dismissal of the party to the proceedings, Czech Republic - Ministry of the Interior, IČ: 00007064, with its registered office
Nad Štolou 936/3, 170 34 Prague 7, against the decision of the Office for Personal Data Protection
Ref. UOOU-01001 / 16-15 of March 29, 2016, is rejected and the contested decision
is confirmed.
 
 

Justification

 
The contested decision of the Office for Personal Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as the "Office") was the Czech Republic
of the Republic - Ministry of the Interior, IČ: 00007064, with its registered office at Nad Štolou 936/3, 170 34 Prague 7
(hereinafter referred to as the “party to the proceedings”), ordered to dispose of the genetic material and DNA profile from the National
DNA database of Mr. S.
 
The administrative proceedings were initiated on the initiative of Mr. S. The Office took place on 17 August 2015
Mr S.'s lawyer turned to the DNA profile
appointed by the Police of the Czech Republic. The lawyer stated that her client was
within the framework of criminal proceedings in 2012, genetic material was seized, which was subsequently inserted into
National DNA database. The criminal prosecution concerned a criminal offense pursuant to Section 345 (2), (3)
letter c) and e) of Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code (false accusation). Judgment of the Regional
court in Ústí nad Labem ref. 4 To 155 / 2013-150 of 11 December 2013 was the complainant
in this case, he was acquitted on the ground that the act was not identified in the application
criminal offense.
 
On 27 April 2015 the complainant requested the Police of the Czech Republic to liquidate the seized
genetic material, but the police rejected his request on the grounds that further processing
his personal data appear to be necessary for the performance of police tasks. That fact was
based, inter alia, on the applicant's criminal past, who was convicted of a criminal offense in 1985
Unauthorized use of a foreign motor vehicle and drunkenness, in 1986 he was convicted
for the offense of forgery and alteration of an authentic instrument and non-compliance with a levy obligation, and in
In 1994 he was convicted of the crime of fraud.
 
Office Inspector PaedDr. Jana Rybínová called on a legal one within the pre-control actions
to the complainant's representative to send a copy of his criminal record and further proof

 

 
 

requests for disposal of genetic material. The police of the Czech Republic were then asked to send
the current version of the internal regulation, the instruction of the police president, which takes the collection and processing
data in the National DNA Database is managed.
 
On the basis of the collected documents, the proceedings were initiated with the participant on 27 January 2016
administrative proceedings on the imposition of remedial measures in the sense of § 40 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. On
On March 29, 2016, the contested decision, which was the participant, was issued
proceedings ordered to dispose of the complainant's genetic material and DNA profile held at the National Court of Appeal
DNA database.
 
According to the first-instance administration, the initial removal of genetic material was
complainant in accordance with § 65 par. 1 let. a) of Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Czech Police
Republic, as at the time the applicant had been charged with an intentional criminal offense.
However, after the final acquittal, the party was in the administrative view
the first-instance authority is obliged to remove the DNA profile, as the purpose of this
processing and there was no legal title for its further processing. Administrative body of the first
refers in this connection to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in
S. and Marper v. The United Kingdom, complaints Nos 30562/04 and 30566/04, which he considered
the preservation of the DNA profiles of persons who have been acquitted of a criminal offense, such as
disproportionate and contrary to Article 8 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
 
The applicant's criminal history as a reason for further keeping his DNA profile in National
the DNA database, the administrative authority stated that the party to the proceedings applies the legislation in question
retroactively, ie. to acts committed at a time when the legislation allowing the collection of DNA for
did not exist for the purpose of future identification. If this interpretation is strictly observed, it would
The Police of the Czech Republic was authorized to collect and store genetic material of all persons
who have been convicted of an intentional crime in the past.
 
On 13 April 2016, the party filed a proper appeal against the said decision.
He does not agree with the remedial measure imposed and argues as follows:
 
According to the party to the proceedings, the administrative body of the first instance misunderstands the concept
future identification as used in Section 65 of Act No. 273/2008 Coll. This institute is necessary
interpreted from a criminological point of view when the purpose of the collection and further preservation of the DNA profile
does not relate only to a specific proceeding, but relates to the person to whom the
criminological knowledge can reasonably be expected to commit crime in the future.
The complainant has been repeatedly convicted of intentional crime in the past, so it is
about a recidivist offender, and it is not decisive when the crime took place.
According to the party, the time that has elapsed since the last crime was committed is not
decisive and there is no reason to take it into account. For criminal reasons, it is up to the complainant
should be seen as a recidivist for whom the preservation of the DNA profile for future purposes
identification in the performance of police tasks. It is also important that the criminal in question
the acts were committed intentionally, and from a criminological point of view it is the perpetrators
increased likelihood of recidivism.
 
The assessment of the justification for maintaining the profile of a particular person is then primarily within the scope
Police of the Czech Republic. The contested decision thus significantly affected the
without taking into account the specificities of their work.
 
The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in S. and Marper v. The United Kingdom
the party submits that its findings cannot be fully applied to the case under review, as
in the case of the complainant, this is a person convicted of several offenses.
In this case, the European Court of Human Rights assessed the preservation of DNA profiles of persons
who have not been convicted.
 

 

2/8

The party to the proceedings also refers to the case law of the Czech courts, in particular to the decision
Of the Supreme Administrative Court of 30 April 2014 Ref. 4 As 168/2013. In this judgment
The Supreme Administrative Court annulled the previous decision of the Office and found the processing of the DNA profile
for a specific perpetrator of intentional crime as admissible. With reference to the above
The judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court states that the right to privacy
it is not boundless, it must be compared with other legally protected in a specific case
interests, such as, in particular, the right to life, personal security, the inviolability of the home or protection
property. Compliance with the imposed measure, liquidation of the complainant's profile, would lead to a breach
proportionality and the principle of proportionality, as this would unduly interfere with
at the expense of the complainant's right to privacy.
 
On the question of the retroactive scope of the legislation in question, the party to the proceedings merely stated that the police
it cannot be charged that the legislation in question at the time the complainant committed the offense,
did not exist. The fact that the complainant is a repeat offender does not change this fact.
 
In conclusion, the participant concludes that it does not find in its procedure, for the reasons stated above
violation of the law, and therefore proposes the contested decision as illegal in accordance with § 90
paragraph 1 (a) a) of Act No. 500/2004 Coll. cancel.
 
I reviewed the contested decision in its entirety, including the process that preceded it
its release.
 
No error was found in the procedure of the first instance body, which, moreover, was not
the party to the proceedings does not object.
 
With regard to the individual factual objections of the party to the proceedings, I state the following:
 
It is certainly a fact that the purpose of the National DNA Database is not to record the profiles of
who have committed a particular criminal offense, but persons for whom such processing is justified with regard to
on the assumption that the crime will recur in the future. Criminological knowledge about the rate
recurrences, including heterogeneous recurrences, are also relevant. When processing personal
data for the purpose of future identification of each person, however, the Police of the Czech Republic is in accordance
with § 65 paragraph 5 of Act No. 273/2008 Coll. obliged to destroy this data as soon as their next
processing is no longer necessary for the purposes of the prevention, search or detection of criminal offenses
activities or prosecution of criminal offenses or ensuring the security of the Czech Republic,
public policy or internal security. In other words, the Police of the Czech Republic is obliged
take into account, as appropriate, the specificities of each case and assess whether further processing is necessary
data necessary for the performance of their tasks, as required in particular by Section 79 (1) of the Act
No. 273/2008 Coll.
 
In this case, at the age of eighteen, the applicant had misused a foreign vehicle and continued to commit it
the crime of drunkenness, at the age of nineteen he did not fulfill his obligation to pay and forged or
amended the authentic instrument. More than thirty years have passed since these crimes were committed.
In view of these facts, in the view of the Appellate Body, no further retention appears
the complainant's genetic profile as justified, as these are less serious offenses,
a long time has passed since their commission.
 
In 1994, the complainant was convicted of fraud in which he committed little or less damage,
ie. damage in the amount of at least six times and at most nineteen times the minimum wage according to
Government Decree effective at the time [this is Government Decree No. 53/1992 Coll., according to his
§ 2 paragraph 1 letter b) the minimum monthly wage was set at CZK 2,200, resp. CZK]. To be
in this case, it is clearly a more serious crime, given its nature (non - violent)
property crime), the amount of damage and above all
its committing,
for more than 20 years, the complainant has not committed any crime, resp. party to the proceedings

that since

 

3/8

in the present case

he did not prove such a fact, the preservation of the complainant's profile also with regard to this fact
does not appear to be reasonable and justified.
 
According to the Appellate Body, the party to the proceedings argues, and in practice proceeds, considerably
formally and in a template, if only on the basis of the fact that a certain person has committed
intentional offense, without taking into account its nature, the time elapsed since the offense,
and other relevant facts automatically concludes that it is a recidivist for whom it is possible
highly likely to assume the continuation of the crime. This conclusion
in the opinion of the appellate body, it cannot
due to
to his circumstances. After all, the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of 30 April
2014 Ref. 4 As 168 / 2013-40, which the party to the proceedings argue and which generally finds to be legal
and notes the general obligation of perpetrators to tolerate crime
keeping their data, including genetic data, in police databases, in point 32
notes that the solution adopted by him concerns a specific case and the Supreme Administrative Court
does not rule out a different result of the proportionality and sufficiency test of the legal basis
in other cases differing in material respects. Legality of data processing in the National
they then assess the DNA database with regard to the specific circumstances of each individual case
administrative courts in other decisions, for illustration, reference may be made here to the current ones
Judgment of the Municipal Court in Prague of 13 April 2016 Ref. 3A 86 / 2013-99.
 
The above-mentioned judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court was issued in the matter of data processing
persons convicted in 2005 of several crimes, tax cuts, fees and the like
compulsory payments, which caused large-scale damage, and copyright infringement
right. The person was also prosecuted for other crimes, intentional violations
duties in the management of third-party property, obstruction of official decisions and fraud, while prosecuting
for these criminal offenses, in accordance with § 172 para. a) of Act No. 141/1961 Coll.
stopped because the punishment that the prosecution could lead to was completely irrelevant next door
a sentence which has already been imposed on the accused for another act or which is expected to punish him.
In other words, he was the perpetrator of several intentional crimes, taking his profile
was entered into the National DNA Database at the time he served the sentence, ie not
with a large time lag.
 
For the sake of completeness, it is necessary to mention another judgment of the administrative court in a similar case, specifically
Judgment of the Municipal Court in Prague of 26 November 2015 Ref. 5A 321 / 2011-57. Also
in this case, the court annulled the decision of the Office finding that the processing was unlawful
personal and sensitive data of a certain person in the National DNA Database. In assessing the matter
the court explicitly stated that “it is necessary to examine in particular the nature and gravity of the offense
the importance of the protected interest which has been affected by the offense,
the manner in which the act was committed and its consequences, the circumstances in which the act was committed, the person
the offender, the degree of his fault and his motive, intention or goal, etc .; based
In assessing those aspects, the competent authorities shall decide on persons whose DNA profile
will be included in the database. ”The case of a person who was in 2004 was assessed
has been convicted of two criminal offenses and has been convicted
damage caused to other people's property in the amount of CZK 12,000,000. This was also the case
about a serious offender who has committed more than one crime
significant damage to legally protected interests and since the commission of the crime
no longer has passed.
 
This is in comparison with the crimes committed by the complainant in the present case
more serious crimes, which were much more intensely affected by the rights of others and in general
to the values protected by criminal law.
 
According to the Board of Appeal, the time that has elapsed since the commission of the previous crimes
authority is not entirely irrelevant, as the party to the proceedings states. This circumstance is not possible
assessed only from a forensic point of view, as the party to the proceedings does, but also in general from a point of view

 

4/8

can

principles and purpose of criminal law. According to the doctrine, one of the functions of punishment is also a rehabilitation function,
according to which the punishment should also serve to correct the offender. This function of punishment is therefore necessary
reflect and, at least to a fundamental extent, distinguish between persons for whom redress with regard to
the frequency of the offense evidently did not occur, and persons from whom the offense
the last (or only) crime has elapsed for a long time without criminal activity
continued, and in which
therefore assume a change in behavior and a lower rate
the likelihood of recidivism. Given the nature of the offenses that
the complainant committed, and in particular for the period which has elapsed since the last of them and which he does
more than twenty years, in the opinion of the Appellate Body, there is no preservation of the complainant's DNA profile
in this case reasonable and proportionate.
 
After all, it is exactly twenty years in accordance with § 34 par. a) of Act No. 40/2009 Coll. even the longest
limitation period for the commission of the most serious criminal offenses. Conviction for the most serious
criminal offenses for which an exceptional penalty may be imposed may then be imposed pursuant to § 105 para. (a) of this
fifteen years after the sentence has been served, if the person concerned has
life, or, if the convicted person has proved after the execution or pardon of the sentence or
The statute of limitations of his performance by his very good conduct that he has corrected can thus be complied with
with the third paragraph of the same provision. According to the criminal law in force at the time
when Mr. S. was convicted (Act No. 140/1961 Coll.), then the deadline for smoothing the conviction
for the most severely punished offenses, according to § 69 par. a) of that Act for ten years.
 
Mr. S. was last convicted in 1994 for the crime of fraud, which was
the damage caused is not small. For this crime he could be sentenced to imprisonment on
six months to three years, or to a fine.
 
As follows from the above, the criminal offense for which Mr S. was committed in 1994
convicted would already be time-barred, just as the past period fulfills the conditions for extermination
conviction. Therefore, if it is generally possible to look at the nominee as if he were not
convicted, the Appellate Body does not consider it appropriate and justified for those offenses which
could be erased, to draw further consequences in terms of including the DNA profile in the National
DNA database. In other words, the nominee is generally seen as not convicted,
however, for some entities, here the party to the proceedings, resp. Police of the Czech Republic, fiction
non-conviction is not relevant and the person concerned is further assessed and assessed taking into account
to his previous crime. Based on this evaluation, his
privacy in an extremely important way, though
they are
processed in police records.
 
The fact that the party's approach summarized in the previous paragraph is from a legal point of view
inadmissible, can be deduced, for example, from the judgment of the Supreme Court of 27 September 2006 ref. 8 Tdo
1069/2006, which explicitly stated: "In general, it can be argued that legal fiction that
The perpetrator sees as if he has not been convicted, it has the meaning that the conviction used this fiction
concerned has ceased to exist legally. In other words, with the fact that he was the perpetrator for an earlier crime
convicted, no further criminal consequences will continue to be associated,
and not only those which the law explicitly stipulates in the provision of § 35 par. 3 of the Penal Code. disciple. Would
in a logical contradiction, to regard such a conviction in certain contexts as if
did not exist legally and would be treated as such in other contexts
continue. "
 
As stated in the contested decision, after Mr S. was charged, his removal was
biological sample for the purposes of future identification on the basis of § 65 par. a) of the Act
No. 273/2008 Coll. admissible, the party to the proceedings had such data processing at its disposal
sufficient legal title. At the time this prosecution was final
terminated without the nominee being found guilty of a criminal offense, however
party to the proceedings with a legal title to further process the biological sample and the results obtained from it

its genetic

information

 

5/8

information on the genetic equipment of the named was not authorized, resp. this processing was
unjustified, disproportionate and therefore illegal on the basis of the above.
 
To disproportionate or unjustified interference in the competence of the Police of the Czech Republic, as
argues that the party in the proceedings did not. The Office is in line with
their competencies according to Act No. 101/2000 Coll. authorized to assess the legality of the processing
personal and sensitive data by the Police of the Czech Republic. If on the basis of relevant documents
If the processing of a person's data is illegal, he is obliged to the administrator
order that the situation be remedied, which in some cases can only be achieved
liquidation of the data in question. In the proceedings prior to the adoption of the contested decision,
collected relevant data for assessing the lawfulness of personal data processing
complainant, the assessment made by the administrative authority of the first instance
is justified and does not deviate from the competences that are legal to the Office
entrusted by the order. For these reasons, there can be no objection to interference with the competence of the Czech Police
Republic to comply.
 
In this context, the Appellate Body considers it appropriate to refer to the current judgment
Of the Municipal Court in Prague, specifically the judgment of 13 April 2016 ref. 6A 5 / 2013-76-89
according to which "it is appropriate in this case to manage such a set of information (is meant
The National DNA Database) was subject to the supervisory authority of the defendant (ie the Office) and that
he himself set out more binding rules for such handling of personal data during the inspection ”(paragraph 34).
 
The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in S. and Marper v. The United States
Kingdom and the party's argument that the findings of the Court in this case cannot be applied, since
in the case of Mr S., he is a person convicted of several criminal offenses, it is possible
so much that the European Court of Human Rights has in the present judgment
did not deal with the convictions of the complainants; after all, one of them was at the time of sampling
eleven years. According to the appellate body, that judgment must be interpreted as meaning that:
it is illegal to further preserve a DNA profile taken away as a result of criminal proceedings against
a person on suspicion of having committed a criminal offense, if the result of that criminal offense
the proceedings are not a final conviction of the person concerned. The judgment has been interpreted in this sense
and the administrative authority of the first instance.
 
The question of the retroactive effect of the legislation in question, which is also the subject of the contested decision
argues so much that the authority of the police to withdraw for the purposes of future identification
biological samples enabling the acquisition of information on genetic equipment was in Czech
of the legal order is enshrined in the amendment to the Police Act made by Act No. 60/2001 Coll.
With effect from 19 February 2001, it brought an adjustment to the present day
has not changed significantly. Before this date, a similar regulation in Czech law
did not exist.
 
Keeping a genetic profile in the National DNA Database is certainly a strong intervention in personalities
rights of every human being. With regard to the constitutional principle of the legality of the exercise of state power, also with regard to
According to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights1, there must be
allows, among other things, predictable so that the perpetrator of the crime can be in his time
preparation or committing awareness of all the consequences that may have for him, ie. and its classification
personal data to police databases. At the time of the crime by
the complainant did not have this legislation, so the complainant could not have been aware that

                                                 
1 Reference may be made, for example, to the judgment in Dragojević v. Croatia, complaint no. 68955/11,
ECtHR judgments, such as Malone v. the United Kingdom, complaint 8691/79, and Sunday
Times v. UK, complaint 6538/74, which deals with the essentials and qualities of the intervention legislation
human privacy by the state and its security forces. The ECtHR later applied these rules to management
state databases or records, cf. Rotaru v. Romania, complaint 28341/95, or
Amann v. Switzerland, complaint 27798/95.

 

6/8

as a result of his activities, his DNA profile will subsequently be kept by the police, as current
internal regulation up to his 100 years of age2.
 
The retrospective effect of this legislation, although not, is unlike retrospective
effectiveness of substantive criminal law standards, explicitly prohibited3, represents a strong
interference with the complainant's rights, which the complainant could not have foreseen in any way and, if necessary, his conduct
adapt.
 
Retroactivity is generally said to be “one of the legal requirements of legal certainty
and the basic principles defining the category of the rule of law and thus the confidence of citizens in the law is
inadmissibility of retroactive effect of legal norms “4.
 
The Constitutional Court also dealt with the retroactive effect of legal norms, especially in the judgment
of 4 February 1997, file no. Pl. ÚS 21/96, in which he stated, among other things: “On the basic principles
defining the category of the rule of law, includes the principle of protecting citizens' trust in the law and with it
the related principle of non-retroactivity… For true retroactivity therefore
the lex posterior abolishes (does not recognize) legal effects during the period of validity of the legis prioris, or
evokes or associates the rights and obligations of entities with such facts as at the time
legis In the case of retroactivity, false
the new law does not have legal consequences for the past, but either elevates the past
facts under the condition of future legal consequence (simple exclusivity) or modifies
for the future legal consequences under previous laws established… For retroactivity right
the principle of general inadmissibility applies, from which there are strictly limited exceptions to admissibility,
on the contrary, the principle of general admissibility applies to false retroactivity, from which there are exceptions to it
inadmissibility. "
 
It is also possible to cite the finding of 13 June 2012, file no. III. ÚS 611/01, where the Constitutional Court
He stated that “although the prohibition of retroactivity of legal norms is in Article 40 (6) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights
rights and freedoms is explicitly regulated only in the field of criminal law (according to the
the criminality of the offense is assessed and the sentence is imposed according to the law in force at the time the offense was committed
committed, and a later law will apply if it is more favorable to the offender), it is necessary
from Article 1 of the Constitution to infer the effect of this prohibition also to other branches of law. "
 
The above can be summarized as follows in the procedure of the party to the proceedings, respectively. police, can no doubt
find the retroactive effect of the legislation. Given its nature (false
retroactivity) and the subject of the standard, which is the inclusion of a name in one of the police databases,
therefore, from a legal point of view, not a punishment, but a preventive or generally forensic measure,
the Appellate Body does not consider that criminal offenses committed by specific persons before the entry into force
the above-mentioned Act No. 60/2001 Coll. could not be taken into account at all. Criminalization
past from the period before the effectiveness of Act No. 60/2001 Coll. however, taking into account the requirement
predictability of law, including the regulation of state interference with human privacy and general
The problem of the retroactive effect of law should not be general and standardized
applied rule, but should take into account the specificities of each case, in particular
the seriousness of the offenses and the time that has elapsed since they were committed. He considers it incorrect
The appellate body approaches that any intentional crime committed at any time in the past
automatically justifies the inclusion of the profile of the person concerned in the National DNA Database. How
mentioned above, the party to the proceedings in the case of processing personal and sensitive data of Mr. S.
in the National DNA Database did not take into account the specifics of the case, resp. did not draw the correct conclusion from them
having regard to the justification and proportionality of such invasion of privacy.
 

                                                 
2 Art. 75 of the Instruction of the Police President of 2 December 2014, on identification acts.
3 Cf. Article 40 para. 6 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and § 1 of the Criminal Code.
4 Knapp, V. Theory of Law. Prague: C. H. Beck, 1995.

 

7/8

Objection of the party to the proceedings that the absence of relevant legislation at the time of the commission of the criminal
the complainant's actions is not his fault, resp. the fault of the police is completely irrelevant. The party to the proceedings,
resp. The Police of the Czech Republic is obliged to apply the legal order as a whole, even with regard to
basic principles and rules of the rule of law in the sense outlined above.
 
Based on all the above facts, I have decided as stated in the statement
of this Decision.
 
 
Lessons learned:

pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 (1) of the Act

Against
No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, cannot be revoked.

 
 
Prague, May 25, 2016
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
For correctness of execution:
Martina Junková

official stamp imprint

JUDr. Ivana Janů, v. R.

chairwoman

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

8/8

