1/14

 File No.: EXP202208281

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 13, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against the JUNTA MAYOR DE
BROTHERHOODS AND BROTHERHOODS OF THE HOLY WEEK OF ELCHE (hereinafter,
the claimed party), through the Transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: EXP202208281

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and with
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 06/27/2022 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD). The
claim is directed against the GOVERNMENT OF BROTHERHOODS AND BROTHERHOODS
OF THE HOLY WEEK OF ELCHE, with NIF V53110391 (hereinafter, the BOARD OF
BROTHERHOODS). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

He states that the Juventud Cofrade de Elche, which is a section dependent on the
JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS, organized in the years 2021 and 2022 a "Gymkhana Cofrade"
“through QR code scans that redirected to trivia in the Kahoot app.”
In order to participate, it was necessary to fill out a registration form through
of Google through which personal data of the interested party was collected: the name,
two last names, the date of birth and the electronic address. The complaining party
indicates that "the personal data collected in the registration forms served as
to create my game username in Kahoot, called [...], made up of the
initials of my first and last name and the last two digits of my year of
birth. Similarly, my email was used for various
communications carried out during the course of the Gymkhanas Cofrades.”

He states that on 05/26/2022 he sent several emails to the Section
organizer of the gymkhana and the secretariat of the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS, "as
responsible for the processing of personal data registered by the entity”, of the
received no response, in which he asked them to proceed with the delivery of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

prizes of the last two Gymkhanas Cofrades, informed them of the possible commission
of a crime of fraud and warned them that they kept their personal data in their
files, thus violating the Data Protection regulations.

Provide these documents with the claim:

 

 

the

1. Both links to the registration forms in the gymkhanas:
-For
2021:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf3mGiBHV8y6jXULyRYGCVrGXSpAZVfz
G5FuJRpSjRAkVV2eg/viewform
-For
 
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeGPRMJ1ljmId86azFgTJ0W3-
RugL202Dq7uLmc24AyxueiCA/viewform

gymkhana

gymkhana

2022:

year

year

of the

of the

the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In the form (the same for the two editions of the gymkhana) it consists in first
place, this indication:

"Registration to the Gymkhana Cofrade organized by the Youth Cofrade of the
Mayor Board of Brotherhoods and Brotherhoods of Holy Week of Elche.
Sign in to Google to save what you've done. More information."

Then there are blank spaces to fill in the name and surname,
date of birth and email. A red asterisk warns that
all of them are required.

Below is this paragraph:

"Compliance with Organic Law 3/2018 on personal data protection
personal and guarantee of digital rights and the European Regulation RGPD
679/2016 we inform you that your data is being processed by
part of the MAYOR BOARD OF BROTHERHOODS AND BROTHERHOODS OF THE WEEK
SANTA with NIF V53110391, with the purpose of maintaining and managing
commercial and administrative relations. The legal basis of the treatment is the
compliance with tax, commercial and accounting legislation. not provided
Assignments and/or international transfers of data. To exercise your rights
You can contact the MAYOR BOARD OF BROTHERHOODS AND BROTHERHOODS OF
EASTER WEEK domiciled at MASAMAGRELL 2, 03203 ELCHE
(ALICANTE) or by e-mail to secretaria@semanasantaelche.com in order to
to exercise your rights of access, rectification, suspension (right to be forgotten),
limitation of treatment, portability of your data, opposition and not to be object
of authorized decisions, indicating as subject "Rights Law Protection of
Data'', and attaching a photocopy of your ID.” (The underlining is ours)

2.-Several screenshots obtained from Instagram related to Juventud Cofrade
from Elche with announcements of the first and second “Gymkhana Cofrade”.

the first gymkhana (2021):

3.-Two links to YouTube with fragments of the radio program “Elche Cofrade:
-Relative to
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=8I1p96XSUXY&list=WL&index=8 ) with the anagram of the Elche City Council
relative to the brotherhoods of that municipality.
-Relative to the second gymkhana (2022): https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=Hb_mdLPZXSo&t=1188s

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

4.- Various links to Holy Week in Elche, the Junta Mayor and the Youth
Brother of Elche:
https://semanasantaelche.com/
https://www.facebook.com/JuntaMayorElche/
https://www.instagram.com/juntamayorelche/
https://twitter.com/JuntaMayorElche
https://www.facebook.com/juventudcofrade.elche/
https://www.instagram.com/juventudcofrade_elche/?hl=es

5.-The welcome message you received from the Cofrade Youth on 03/27/2021 at the
that they acknowledge receipt of the desire of the complaining party to participate in the gymkhana; you
They inform of their user and the rules of the game. Among them, of this:

“The Gymkhana will be done using QR codes, which you will have to scan to
solve the questions that we have proposed. By scanning the code you will access
a platform where you must enter your username and you will be able to
answer the questions."

6.-Message from the Cofrade Youth of 03/18/2022 in which they welcome you to the
II Gymkhana Cofrade, they inform you of your user (the same as in the first) and of the
Game rules, the same as in the first edition.

7.-Copy of the text of the emails that the claimant claims to have
sent to the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS and to the Organizing Section. the two writings
They are dated 05/26/2022.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the BOARD OF
COFRADÍAS to proceed with its analysis and inform the AEPD within the period of
one month of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the
data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out electronically in accordance with the rules established in the
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), was rejected. work in the
file the certificate issued by the Support service of the
Electronic Notifications and Authorized Electronic Address of the FNMT (in
hereafter, FNMT certificate) stating that on 07/27/2022 the
provision of the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS the notification and that the rejection occurred
automatic as of 07/08/2022.

The notification to the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS was reiterated by postal mail in two
occasions with unsuccessful result in both cases.

Thus, the document issued by the State Company works in the administrative file
Correos y Telégrafos, S.A., "Certification of impossibility of delivery", relating to a
shipment sent by the AEPD on 08/16/22, stating that it has been returned to
origin due to surplus (not collected at the office) on 08/30/2022, having the following
Associated information: A first delivery attempt was made on 08/18/2022 at

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

11:14 and a second attempt on 08/22/2022 at 8:12 p.m., both with results
absent. Notice was left in the mailbox.

The transfer was reiterated once again by the AEPD by post. The document
"Certification of impossibility of delivery" that works in the administrative file
certifies that a shipment was made to the claimed party on 09/07/2022 that was returned
to origin due to surplus on 09/20/2022. It includes the following associated information: It was made
a first delivery attempt on 09/08/2022 at 10:51 a.m., with no result, and
a second attempt, with the same result, on 09/12/2022 at 2:05 a.m. it was left
notice in mailbox

THIRD: On 09/27/2022, in accordance with article 65.5 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

The claimant was notified electronically of the admission for processing of their
claim being the date of making available and acceptance of the notification
on 09/29/2022. This is confirmed by the FNMT certificate in the file.

FOURTH: Regarding the various issues raised in the claim document

The complaining party alludes in its claim to some issues that are unrelated to
the functions that the AEPD, as an independent control authority, has
mandated by the GDPR. Issues such as that the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS not
proceeded to deliver the promised prizes to the participants or winners of the
gymkhanas that were organized during the years 2021 and 2022 and the consequences that
may arise from that breach.

The AEPD is entrusted with supervising the application of the GDPR in order to protect
fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to
to the processing of your personal data and to facilitate the free movement of data
personal in the Union. Article 57.1 of the GDPR attributes to it, among others, the function
of “a) control the application of this Regulation and make it apply”. and the GDPR
applies (ex article 2) to the processing of personal data, in whole or in part
automated or non-automated content or intended to be included in a file.

Thus, any claim or claim unrelated to the processing of personal data
and to the protection of this fundamental right in the terms provided in
its regulatory regulations exceed the competence attributed to this Agency.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Applicable standards

The GDPR includes in its article 5 the "Principles related to treatment" and among them,
Section 1 mentions transparency (article 5.1.a):
“The personal data will be:

to)

b)

treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party
(<<legality, loyalty and transparency>>)
[…]”.

Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR, a manifestation of the principle of transparency, deal with
on the information that the data controller is obliged to provide to the
interested party whose data is processed and contemplates two hypotheses:
respectively, that the data had been obtained directly from the interested party or not.
Thus, article 13 of the GDPR, "Information that must be provided when the data
personal data are obtained from the interested party”, it says:

"1. When personal data relating to him or her is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time they are obtained, will provide you with
all the information listed below:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection officer, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended and the legal basis
of the treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, in their
case; f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision of
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of the transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second subparagraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate guarantees and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been lent.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will provide the interested party, at the time the data is obtained
personal data, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this term;
b) the existence of the right to request the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of their treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
at any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a control authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;
 f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about the logic applied, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.
3. When the person responsible for the treatment plans the subsequent processing of data
personal information for a purpose other than that for which it was collected, will provide the
data subject, prior to said further processing, information about that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under section 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 will not be applicable when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.” (The underlining is ours)

On the alleged infringement of article 13 of the GDPR

II

It is attributed to the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS, in its capacity as responsible for the
treatment of the data of the complaining party, an alleged infringement of article 13
of the GDPR, a precept that obliges you to provide the interested party at the time of the
collection of your personal data the information in it is detailed.

The claimant acknowledges that he provided the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS with his name,
surname, date of birth and email address using the
filling in a form in order to be able to participate in the "Gymkhana
Brother".

In view of what was stated by the claimant in her claim document, the
Legal basis for the processing of your data carried out by the JUNTA DE
COFRADÍAS for the aforementioned purpose would be the consent granted by it (article
6.1.a, of the GDPR).

The GDPR requires that all processing of personal data be lawful (article 5.1.a), which
which implies that at least one of the legitimizing circumstances must be present
of the treatment that are listed in article 6.1 of the GDPR, including that of the
section a): "the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his data
for one or more specific purposes”.

There is no doubt that, when the claimant completed the form with her data,
he knew that the purpose for which he provided them was to be able to participate in the gymkhana.
In this regard, the claimant has explained that the form was completed at
through Google and, through it, the user of the platform was configured
"KAHOOT", necessary to participate in the game. They work in the file
electronic messages received at your email address (dated 03/27/2021 and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

03/18/2022) welcoming you to the gymkhana and informing you of your password and the rules
by which the game was governed.

On the other hand, it is accredited that in the form through which the
The claimant's data included an informative clause whose text is reproduced
fully in the First Fact of this agreement.

Work in the file, provided by the claimant, a link to the forms of
collection of data used by the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS. The form of the
second gymkhana, held in the year 2022, bears this heading:

“GYMKHANA COFRADE 2021 ''GET TO KNOW THE HOLY WEEK IN ILICITANA''
Registration to the II Gymkhana Cofrade organized by the Youth Cofrade de la Junta
Mayor of Brotherhoods and Brotherhoods of Holy Week of Elche." below, in color
red, an asterisk and the indication “Required”.

Then there are blank spaces for the name and the two
surname, date of birth and email address. In all of them there is a
asterisk in red. Below is the informative clause on the
treatment of personal data that has been transcribed in the First Fact of this
agreement.

The conclusions obtained after examining the degree of compliance that
is done in the clause inserted in the form of the informative requirements of the
Article 13 of the GDPR are the following:

a) The clause did report:

Yo. the identity and contact details of the data controller (article
13.1.a of the RGP):

"We inform you that your data is being processed by JUNTA
MAJOR OF BROTHERHOODS AND BROTHERHOODS OF HOLY WEEK with NIF
V53110391”.
“Major Meeting […] domiciled at MASAMAGRELL 2, 03203 ELCHE (ALICANTE)”.

ii. the purposes of the processing for which the personal data would be used (article 13.1.c,
first paragraph of the GDPR)

The informative clause stated: “your data is being processed […] with the
purpose of maintaining and managing commercial and administrative relations.”

Article 13.4. of the GDPR provides that the provisions of the
sections 1, 2 and 3 "when and to the extent that the interested party already has the
information". For this reason, although the informative clause does not expressly mention among the
purposes of the treatment to participate in the gymkhana, there is no doubt, according to what
declared by the complaining party, that when he provided his personal data
he knew that he consented to his treatment for that purpose.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

iii. the recipients of the personal data, if applicable, and the intention of the
responsible for transferring personal data to a third country or organization
international (article 13.1 GDPR, sections e, and f,):

"International transfers and/or transfers of data are not foreseen"

iv. that the interested parties had the right to request the data controller the
access to personal data, its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its
treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to the portability of the
data (article 13.2.b, of the GDPR):

"To exercise your rights, you can contact the JUNTA MAYOR DE COFRADÍAS Y
HOLY WEEK BROTHERHOODS domiciled at MASAMAGRELL 2, 03203
ELCHE (ALICANTE) or by e-mail to secretaria@semanasantaelche.com in order to
to exercise your rights of access, rectification, suspension (right to be forgotten),
limitation of treatment, portability of your data, opposition and not to be subject to
authorized decisions.

v. that the interested party was obliged to provide the personal data and was informed
of the possible consequences of not providing such data (article 13.2.e, of the GDPR):

On this point, we reiterate that in the form the fields to be completed with
personal data carry a red asterisk that meant that the data was from
mandatory completion. And, we must add that, in accordance with article 13.4 of the
GDPR, "The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 will not be applicable when and in
to the extent that the interested party already has the information”. It is evident that the
The claimed party knew that not providing their personal data through the
completion of the form would have the consequence of not being able to participate in the
gymkhana.

b) The form did not report these issues:

Yo. of the period of conservation of personal data or of the criteria to determine
this term (article 13.2.a, GDPR).

ii. of the legal basis of the treatment (article 13.1.c, second paragraph).

The clause of the form said: "The legal basis of the treatment is compliance
of tax, commercial and accounting legislation.”

The consent given by the interested party is not mentioned as the basis of the
legality of the treatment carried out with the purpose of being able to participate in the gymkhana. No
However, it cannot be ignored that the claimant knew that in order to participate in the
aforementioned gymkhana, it was necessary to consent to the processing of certain data
personal and for that purpose consented to the treatment.

iii. that, since the treatment is based on consent, article 6, paragraph 1,
letter a) of the GDPR, as is the case, the interested party had the right to withdraw the
consent at any time without affecting the legality of the treatment
based on the consent prior to its withdrawal (article 13.2.c, of the GDPR)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

iv. of the right to file a claim with a control authority (article
13.2.d, of the GDPR)

In short, the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS did not inform the interested party, through the
data protection clause of the form, of the ends that are mentioned in
letters a), c) second paragraph and d) of article 13, paragraph 2, of the GDPR.

The LOPDGDD, with the sole purpose of determining the limitation period that
corresponds to each infraction, classifying them as very serious, serious and minor. The
infringing conduct that supposes a "substantial violation" of the articles that are
mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of article 83 of the GDPR, are considered
serious and very serious offences, respectively, and its limitation period is 2
and 3 years. Conduct that constitutes an infringement "of a merely formal nature"
of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83 of the GDPR, it is
They are considered minor and their prescription period is one year.

In relation to the infringement of article 13 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, for the purposes of
determine the limitation period, considers it very serious, for which reason it has established
a limitation period of three years, the conduct described in article 72.1.h): "The
Omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this organic law”. Also in connection with article 13 of the GDPR
considered mild, the prescription period being one year (article 74) "the
breach of the principle of transparency of information or the right to
information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by articles 13
and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. (The underlining is ours)

The JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS, having not informed the interested party at the time of
the collection of your data from all ends required by article 13 of the GDPR,
could have incurred in a violation of this provision.

Classification of the alleged infringement of article 13 of the GDPR attributed to the defendant

IV.

In accordance with the evidence available at this stage of agreement of
start of the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the investigation,
it is estimated that the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS allegedly violated article
13 of the GDPR for not having informed the complaining party at the time of the
collection of your personal data from the ends referred to in letters a), c)
second paragraph and d) of section 2 of article 13 of the GDPR.

The infringement of article 13 of the GDPR is typified in its article 83.5, which
establishes:

Violations of the following provisions will be penalized in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

[….]
b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22;”

The LOPDGDD, with the sole purpose of determining the limitation period of the
infringements of the GDPR, classifies them into very serious, serious and minor and establishes for
they, respectively, prescription periods of three, two and one year.

In this case, the violation of article 13 of the GDPR for which the
JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS is considered light from the point of view of classification
carried out by the LOPDGDD, so that the limitation period of the presumed
infraction is one year. Article 74 of the LOPDGDD provides:

"The remaining infractions of a legal nature are considered minor and will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right to
information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by articles 13
and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

V

Sanction proposal

Article 70 of the LOPDGDD, "Responsible Subjects", says that "They are subject to
Penalty regime established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and in this law
Organic: a) Those responsible for the treatments. […]”

The corrective powers attributed to the AEPD as control authority are detailed in
Article 58.2 of the GDPR, sections a) to j), among which the precept includes
(paragraph i) the power to impose an administrative fine under article 83
of the GDPR.

Without prejudice to what results from the instruction, in the present case it would be appropriate
impose on the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS for the alleged violation of article 13 of the
GDPR a penalty of administrative fine.

Article 83 of the GDPR, "General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative", it says in its section 1 that the control authority will guarantee that the
imposition of fines for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 comply, in each individual case, with the principles of effectiveness,
proportionality and dissuasiveness.
 
The principle of proportionality implies a correlation between the offense and the sanction,
with the prohibition of unnecessary or excessive measures, so that it must be
fit to achieve the ends that justify it.

Violation of article 13 of the GDPR for which the party is held responsible
claimed is typified in article 83.5.b) of the GDPR, so it can be
be penalized with a fine of up to a maximum of 20,000,000 euros or, in the case of
of a company, for an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

overall annual total business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount.

In this case, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, it is estimated that the
amount of the fine that could be imposed on the data controller,
the JUNTA DE COFRADÍAS, for the violation of article 13 of the GDPR, is €1,000
(a thousand euros)

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against the GOVERNMENT OF
BROTHERHOODS AND BROTHERHOODS OF THE HOLY WEEK OF ELCHE, with NIF
V53110391, for the alleged violation of article 13 of the GDPR typified in article
83.5.b) of the GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT instructor to R.R.R. and secretary to S.S.S., indicating that
may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of articles 23 and 24
of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, as well as
the documents obtained and generated by the Sub-directorate General of Inspection of
Data in the actions prior to the start of this sanctioning procedure.

FOURTH: THAT, for the purposes set forth in art. 64.2 b) of the LPACAP, the sanction that
could correspond would be an administrative fine for an amount of €1,000 (one thousand euros)

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to the GOVERNMENT OF THE BROTHERHOODS AND
BROTHERHOODS OF HOLY WEEK OF ELCHE, with NIF V53110391,
granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the
allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of the LPACAP.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement, which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at €800 (eight hundred euros), resolving
the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €800 (eight hundred euros) and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure, without prejudice to the imposition of the measures
corresponding.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
set at €600 (six hundred euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (€600 or €800), you must make it effective by depositing
in an account IBAN number: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000 opened in the name of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.,
indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for reducing the amount to which
welcomes.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
>>

935-170223

SECOND: On April 12, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the penalty in the amount of 600 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Commencement Agreement transcribed above, which implies recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202208281, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the GOVERNMENT OF THE COFRADIES AND
BROTHERHOODS OF THE HOLY WEEK OF ELCHE.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

