
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    02/11/2021
                                The vast majority of clubs in Rhineland-Palatinate observe data protection - Kugelmann: Only a few procedures due to violations of the General Data Protection Regulation When the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into effect in 2018, many clubs were concerned with how they could comply with data protection rules. The state data protection officer Dieter Kugelmann now draws a positive balance. Some of those responsible feared sanctions. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate therefore focused his work in 2018 and 2019 on supporting and advising associations. Professor Dieter Kugelmann now takes stock: “The vast majority of associations in Rhineland-Palatinate have adapted well to the data protection requirements. It has been shown that data protection is not rocket science and those responsible in clubs usually handle the processing of their members' data to the best of their knowledge and belief. With the entry into force of the GDPR, the sensitivity regarding the informational self-determination of the citizens has obviously increased.
Last year, the LfDI received 25 reports in which clubs informed the LfDI in accordance with the GDPR that there had been violations of the protection of personal data (data breaches). Some of these were simpler incidents such as the loss of letters in the post (8 cases). Based on a total of 458 data breach reports received by the LfDI, the number of breaches by clubs is 5.5 percent. In addition, the LfDI recorded 16 cases in which people objected to individual data processing processes in associations. In four other cases, the LfDI acted on the basis of anonymous tips. After the investigations carried out, the LfDI issued four warnings and three instructions. No fines were imposed on clubs in 2020.Kugelmann says: "According to the State Chancellery, there are almost 38,000 registered clubs in Rhineland-Palatinate. In the past two and a half years, the vast majority of clubs have set out to comply with data protection principles such as transparency, earmarking and data economy. After the LfDI’s advisory offensive in 2018 and 2019, the LfDI received 35 written and several dozen telephone requests for advice last year, significantly fewer than in previous years. The LfDI is continuing to offer advice to the clubs, and detailed information can also be found on the LfDI website.”
Further information is available on the LfDI website here.
                                return
                            



