Opinion 30/2020 on  the  draft decision of  the  competent
supervisory authority  of Austria regarding the  approval  of
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR)

Adopted on 07 December 2020

Adopted

1

Table of contents

1
2

3
4

Summary of the Facts.....................................................................................................................4
Assessment.....................................................................................................................................4
2.1
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ...............................4
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines)
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ...........5
GENERAL REMARKS.........................................................................................................6
2.2.1
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ...........................................................7
2.2.2
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................8
2.2.3
PROCESS REQUIREMENTS...............................................................................................9
2.2.4
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.....................................................................10
2.2.5
2.2.6
FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS .......................................................................10
Conclusions / Recommendations.................................................................................................11
Final Remarks ...............................................................................................................................12

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”),

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body.
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies).

(2)  With  reference to  Article 43 GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall adopt
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements.

(3) While requirements for accreditation are subject to the consistency mechanism, this does not
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise
of accredited certification bodies.

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation
2016/679” will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism.

(5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

3

Adopted

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which
will contribute to consistency.2

(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the
complexity of the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

The Austria  supervisory authority (hereinafter  “AT SA”) has submitted  its  draft  accreditation
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 9 October 2020.
The AT SA will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify using GDPR certification criteria.

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the AT SA is tasked by national
law to carry out the accreditation of certification bodies. To this end, the AT SA has developed a set of
requirements specifically for accreditation of certification bodies.

This assessment of AT SA’s accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations (additions
or deletions) from the Guidelines and notably their Annex 1. Furthermore, the EDPB’s Opinion is also
focused  on  all  aspects  that  may impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the  accreditation  of
certification bodies.

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en

Available 

par. 

39. 

at:

Adopted

4

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as
required by the SA’s context.

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements.
However,  the Board considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and
review as required.

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights,
and therefore it will not make reference to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a
result, the Board decided to, where relevant, point towards specific sections of the ISO Standard,
without, however, reproducing the text.

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the AT
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and
not asking the AT SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the AT SA, which are outside the scope of article
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be
assessed consistently:

a. addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering

any deviation from the Annex.

b.

c.

independence of the certification body

conflicts of interests of the certification body

d. expertise of the certification body

e. appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied

by the certification body

f.

g.

procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and

transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification.

9.

Taking into account that:

a. Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body need to

address in order to be accredited;

Adopted

5

b. Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the
accreditation of certification bodies itself;

d. Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant
to Article 43(3);

e.

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority
must also be applied;

f. Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body;

the Board is of the opinion that:

2.2.1 GENERAL REMARKS

10.

11.

12.

13.

The Board acknowledges that, as explained by the AT SA, the AT SA’s draft requirements are drafted
following the procedural requirements of Austrian law. Nonetheless, the Board encourages the AT SA
to follow the structure and titles of the Annex, to the extent possible under national law.

The Board acknowledges that the AT SA’s draft accreditation requirements include a section on terms
and definitions. However, some of the terms are not used consistently throughout the document (e.g.
“conformity assessment” instead of “Certification” in section 7.1.2; “the persons entrusted with the
certification procedure” instead of “evaluators” in section 7.5; the reference to “the data protection
authority” instead to the “AT SA”...). The Board encourages the AT SA to ensure that the terms used
are consistent.

The  Board  notes  that  the  requirements  should  be  drafted  in  a  prescriptive  manner.  Thus,  the
requirements should avoid the word “should” and rather use “shall” or “must”. The EDPB encourages
the AT SA to make the necessary changes in this regard (e.g. in section 10(1)).

The Board acknowledges the specific nature of the explanatory note provided by the AT SA. However,
the Board considers that some of the explanations in the explanatory should rather be included in the
text of the ordinance. In particular, the Board recommends the AT SA to make the following changes
in this regard: inclusion in section 9(2)(7) the reference to the tasks and powers of the SA; inclusion
in  section  8(2)  of  the  references  to  the  EU  Seal;  with  regard  to  section  9.3.1  of  the  Annex,  the
ordinance  should  include  the  obligations  regarding  the  communication  with  the  certification
petitioners  and  holders,  added  in  the  explanatory  note;  the  ordinance  should  also  include  the
information related to section 9.3.4 of the Annex; section 19 should clearly include the obligation of
the  certification  body  to  disclose  to  the  SA  the  management  principles  and  their  documented
implementation;  section  11  should  include  the  information  in  relation  with  previous  certification
(page 6, “para. 2” of the explanatory notes).

6

Adopted

2.2.2 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION

14.

15.

Concerning the requirement of legal responsibility, the Board notes that, in the supporting document,
the AT SA explain that the obligation of the certification body to comply with the GDPR stems from
the GDPR itself and, therefore, there’s no need to add further requirements on that regard. However,
the Board considers that the obligation of the certification body to comply with the GDPR and with
the accreditation requirements should be included in the ordinance. In fact, as established in section
4.1.1  of  the  Annex  to  the  Guidelines,  certification  bodies  shall  have  up  to  date  procedures  that
demonstrate  compliance  with  the  legal  responsibilities  set  out  in  the  terms  of  accreditation.
Moreover, the certification body shall be able to demonstrate evidence of GDPR compliant procedures
and measures specifically for controlling and handling of client organisation’s personal data as part of
the  certification  process.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  the  AT  SA  to  amend  the  draft
requirements in order to align them with the Guidelines.

Regarding the management of impartiality, section 5.2 of the AT SA’s draft requirements establish
that  a  certification  body  won’t  be  impartial  “if  a  contractual  relationship  exists  between  the
certification body and the certification petitioner or holder in the sense of Art. 26(1) second sentence
or Art. 28(3) GDPR”. The Board considers that this does not include other situations in which the
independence of the certification body may be compromised. In this regard, the Board notes that any
type  of  economic or  organisational relation  between  the  certification  body  and  the  legal  entity,
depending on its features, may affect the impartiality of its certification activities. For example, the
certification body should not belong to the same company group nor should be controlled in any way
by  the  customer  it  assesses.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends that  the  draft  requirements  are
amended in order to clarify that any type of economic relation between the certification body and the
legal entity, depending on its features, may affect the impartiality of its certification activities.

16. With regard to section 8(7) of the AT SA’s ordinance, the Board considers that the publicly available
information should also include all versions of the criteria under art. 42(5) GDPR and encourages the
AT SA to add such clarification.

17.

The Board considers that section 9 (“certification agreement”) of the AT SA’s ordinance does not
cover all the elements of section 4.1.2 of the Annex. In particular, the Board notes that the following
points of the Annex are missing: point 2 (to require the applicant to allow full transparency to the
competent supervisory authority with respect to the certification procedure including contractually
confidential matters) and 7 (to allow the certification body to disclose [to the SA] all information
necessary for granting certification pursuant to Articles 42(8) and 43(5)). Thus, the EDPB recommends
that the AT SA include the abovementioned elements.

18. With regard to section 9(2)(1), the Board notes that the reference to the deadlines is limited to those
“specified in the certification requirements”, whereas section 4.1.2, 5th indent of the Annex is broader
and also include the obligation to comply with procedures. Thus, the EDPB encourages the AT SA to
redraft the wording in order to refer to deadlines in a general manner and include a reference to the
applicable procedures, in line with the Annex.

19.

In addition, the Board notes that, according to the Annex, the applicant has to inform the certification
body of significant changes in its actual or legal situation and in its products, processes and services
concerned by the certification (10th indent in section 4.1.2 of the Annex). However, section 9(2)(4) of
the  AT  SA’s  draft  requirements  only  refer  to  significant  changes,  without  adding  any  further

Adopted

7

20.

21.

specification. The Board encourages the AT SA to specify that the significant changes relate to “its
actual or legal situation and in its products, processes and services concerned by the certification”.

The  EDPB  notes  that, in  accordance  with section  4.1.2, 6th  ident of  the  annex,  the  certification
agreement should contain the rules for validity, renewal and withdrawal, and the rules setting the
intervals for re-evaluation or review. Section 9(2)(5) of the AT SA’s ordinance include a reference to
the obligations of the client in that regard, but not to the above-mentioned rules. Thus, the EDPB
recommends the AT SA to include the reference, in line with the Annex.

The Board notes that section 9(2)(7) seems to reflect the requirement of section 4.1.2, 3rd indent of
the Annex regarding the responsibility of the applicant to comply with the GDPR. However, some
clarification would be beneficial. Thus, the Board encourages the AT SA to clarify the wording, in order
to align it with the Annex.

22. With regard to section 14(2) of the ordinance, the EDPB notes that it does not include the obligation
to only use certificates, seals and marks in compliance with Article 42 and 43 and the guidelines on
accreditation and certification, in line with the Annex. The EDPB recommends that the AT SA amend
the draft accordingly.

2.2.3 RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS

23. With regard to the expertise of the certification body (section 7 of the AT SA’s draft accreditation
requirements), the Board considers that points 2 and 3 of section 6.1 of the Annex are not covered.
Thus, the Board recommends the AT SA to amend the draft accordingly, so as to include the missing
elements.

24.

Regarding the educational requirements for personnel with technical expertise, the Annex refers to
“a  qualification  in  a  relevant  area  of  technical  expertise  to  at  least  EQF  level  6 or  a  recognised
protected title (e.g. Dipl. Ing.) in the relevant regulated profession”. However, there is no reference to
the underlined sentence in section 7(3) of the AT SA’s draft accreditation requirements. Taking into
account  the  variety  in  the  educational  systems,  the Board  recommends  that  the  AL  SA’s  draft
requirements be aligned with the wording of the Annex, taking into account the specific educational
system and requirements established in national law. For example, the requirements could refer to
an “equivalent vocational education enjoying a recognised protected title in the Member State where
it was issued”.

25.

In addition, the Board considers that the list of subjects is already tailored to the technical expertise
required by the Annex. Therefore, the Board encourages the AT SA to delete the reference to “natural
sciences” from the list of subjects regarding the educational requirements of the technical personnel.

26. With  regard  to  the  decision-makers,  section  7.6  establishes  that  they  should  have  experience  in
technical data protection law. This specific reference is more suitable for evaluators than for decision-
makers. In fact, the Board considers that the expertise requirements for evaluators and decision-
makers should be tailored taking into account the different tasks that they perform. In this regard, the
Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  evaluators  should  have  a  more  specialist  expertise  and  professional
experience in technical procedures (e.g. audits and certifications), whereas decision-makers should
have a more general and comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data protection.

Adopted

8

Considering this, the Board encourages the AT SA to redraft the requirements taking into account the
different substantive knowledge and/or experience requirements for evaluators and decision-makers.

2.2.4 PROCESS REQUIREMENTS

27. With  regard  to  section  8(1)(2)  (“Certification  procedure”),  the  Board  notes  that  the  ordinance
requires that the application for certification include “details of the certification applied for”. The EDPB
considers that this wording should be complemented in accordance with the Annex, in order to specify
the details that should be included. In this regard, section 7.2.1 of the Annex refers to the object of
certification (ToE) but also to “interfaces and transfers to other systems and organizations, protocols
and other assurances”. Thus, the EDPB encourages the AT SA to include the details mentioned in the
Annex.

28. With regard to section 8(1)(3), the Board notes that the ordinance refers to the joint-controllership
and  the  use  of  processors.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  encourages  the  AT  SA to  specify  that  the
information on the processors/joint controllers should include a description of their responsibilities
and tasks, and that the application shall contain the relevant contracts or arrangements.

29. With regard to the obligation to lay down in the certification agreement binding evaluation methods
with respect to the Target of Evaluation (ToE), stablished in section 7.3, 1st indent of the Annex, the
Board notes that section 9(2)(10) of the ordinance only refers to “evaluation methods”. The Board
encourages the AT SA to clarify that they are binding.

30. With regard to section 10 of the ordinance (“Change in certification agreements”), the Board considers
that  the  wording  is  not  sufficiently  clear  as  to  the  kind  of  changes  referred. Following  further
explanations provided by the AT SA, the Board understands that the intention is to refer to changes
that  might  affect  certification.  Thus,  having  in  mind  the  need  to  preserve  the  impartiality  of  the
certification body, the Board encourages the AT SA to reformulate the requirements in order to make
clear that the changes referred are those that might affect certification and to clarify that the client is
provided, in a timely manner, with general information on changes that might affect its certification”.

31.

In addition, the Board observes that there is no reference to the change procedures to be agreed, as
per section 7.10 of the Annex. The Board encourages the AT SA to include such reference and mention
some of the procedures that could be put in place (e.g. transition periods, approvals process with the
competent SA...). Additionally, the Board considers that changes in the state of art are also relevant
and might affect certification. Therefore, the Board encourages the AT SA to include this possibility
among the list of changes affecting certification.

32. With regard to section 11 of the ordinance (“Evaluation”), the Board notes that some elements of
section  7.4  Annex  are  not  included.  In  particular,  the  Board  considers  that  the  AT  SA’s  draft
requirements  should  include  the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  set  out  in  detail  in  its
certification mechanism how the information required in item 7.4.6 SO/IEC 17065/2012 informs the
certification  applicant  about  nonconformities  from  a  certification  mechanism  (5th  paragraph  of
section 7.4 Annex). Thus, the Board recommends the AT SA to include such obligation.

33.

In  addition,  the  Board  considers  that  point  11(1)  should  not  only  refer  to  point  7.4  ISO/IEC
17065:2012. For example, the requirement could say “in addition to point 7.4 ISO/IEC 17065:2012...”
Moreover, the Board considers that the explanatory note should include all the elements listed in
point 7.4 Annex. The Board encourages the AT SA to amend the draft accordingly.

9

Adopted

34.

The  Board  notes  that  the  obligation  to  have  procedures  for  the  granting,  regular  review  and
revocation of the respective certifications pursuant to Article 43(2) and 43(3) (section 7.5 Annex) is
not included in the AT SA’s draft requirements. Thus, the EDPB recommends that the AT SA include it.

35. With regard to section 13(1), the EDPB encourages the AT SA to include a reference to the GDPR and

the certification criteria approved by an SA.

36. With section 13.4 (“certification decision”), the Board notes that the ordinance does not include the
elements of the first two paragraphs of section 7.7 Annex, although the explanatory note for section
9.2.3 establishes that the certification can be granted for a maximum period of three years. The Board
considers that these requirements should be in the text of the ordinance and recommends the AT SA
to amend the draft ordinance in order to include the information.

37.

38.

39.

Regarding section 15(1) (“Directory of certified products”), the Board acknowledges the inclusion of
the obligation of the certification body to keep a directory of certified products. However, as stated in
section 7.8 Annex, the information on certified products, processes and services shall be internally
and publicly available. The EDPB recommends the AT SA to amend the draft accordingly.

The Board also notes that section 15(3) includes the obligation of the certification body to provide the
SA  on  request  with  the  complete  directory.  However,  the  requirements  should  also  include  the
obligation of the certification body to inform the competent SA of the reasons for granting or revoking
the requested certification. The Board recommends that the AT SA amend the draft accordingly.

Regarding the obligation to inform the SA of the reasons for the termination, reduction, suspension
or withdrawal of a certification (section 17(2) of the ordinance), the Board encourages the AT SA to
clarify that the information should be provided in writing.

40. With regard to section 18(2)(2) of the ordinance, the Board acknowledges the inclusion of details on
“any incompatibility arrangements”. The Board understands that this reference intends to address the
obligation of the certification body to define how separation between certification activities and the
handling of appeals and complaints is ensured (section 7.13 Annex). However, the Board considers
that the wording of the Annex is clearer and encourages the AT SA to amend the wording in that line.

2.2.5 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

41. With regard to section 9(2)(9)(a) of the ordinance, the Board notices the reference to a catalogue of
measures for dealing with complaints. The Board considers that the wording of the Annex (section
4.1.2, 8th indent) is more comprehensive since it refers to the structure and procedure for complaint
management. The Board encourages the AT SA to amend the draft accordingly.

2.2.6 FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

42.

The Board considers that some elements of sections 9.3.1 and 9.3.3 Annex are missing. In particular,
the following information should be added: with regard to section 9.3.1 Annex, the ordinance should
include  the  elements related  to  the appropriate procedures  and  communication  structures,  in
particular, the obligation to maintain documentation of tasks and responsibilities by the certification
body and to maintain an application process for the purpose of evaluation by the SA. In addition,
section 9(2)(11) of the ordinance only refers to communication structures, whereas it should refer to
communication structures and procedures, in accordance with the Annex. With regard to section 9.3.3
Annex,  the  ordinance  should  include  the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  share  relevant

10

Adopted

complaints  and  objections  with  the  SA.  The  Board recommends the  AT  SA  to  amend  the  draft
requirements accordingly.

3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

43.

The draft accreditation requirements of the AT Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made:

44.

Regarding ‘general remarks’, the Board recommends that the AT SA:

1) make the necessary changes so as to include in the text of the ordinance some of the

explanations in the explanatory note, as specified in paragraph 13 of this Opinion.

45.

Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the AT SA:

2) amend the draft requirements in order to include in the ordinance the obligation of the
certification body to comply with the GDPR and with the accreditation requirements; and
the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  demonstrate  evidence  of  GDPR  compliant
procedures and measures specifically for controlling and handling of client organisation’s
personal data as part of the certification process.

3) clarify that any type of economic relation between the certification body and the legal
entity, depending on its features, may affect the impartiality of its certification activities

4)

include in section 9 all the elements of section 4.1.2 Annex, particularly points 2 and 7

5) add the obligation to include, in the certification agreement, the rules for validity, renewal

and withdrawal, and the rules setting the intervals for re-evaluation or review.

6) amend section 14(2) in order to include the obligation to only use certificates, seals and
marks  in  compliance  with  Article  42  and  43  and  the  guidelines  on  accreditation  and
certification, in line with the Annex.

46.

Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the AT SA:

1)

include the obligations of points 2 and 3 of section 6.1 of the Annex

2) align the  wording  regarding  the  education  requirements  for  personnel  with  technical
expertise  with  the  Annex,  taking  into  account  the  specific  educational  system  and
requirements established in national law.

47.

Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the AT SA:

1)

include the missing elements from section 7.4 Annex, in particular the obligation of the
certification body to set out in detail in its certification mechanism how the information
required  in  item  7.4.6  SO/IEC  17065/2012  informs  the  certification  applicant  about
nonconformities from a certification mechanism.

2)

include the obligation to have procedures for the granting, regular review and revocation
of the respective certifications pursuant to Article 43(2) and 43(3) (section 7.5 Annex).

3)

include in the ordinance the elements of the first two paragraphs of section 7.7 Annex.

11

Adopted

4)

5)

specify, in section 15(1), that the information on certified products, processes and services
shall be internally and publicly available.

include the obligation of the certification body to inform the competent SA of the reasons
for granting or revoking the requested certification.

48.

Regarding ‘further additional requirements’, the Board recommends that the AT SA:

1)

include the missing elements of sections 9.3.1 and 9.3.3 Annex.

4 FINAL REMARKS

49.

50.

This opinion is addressed to the Austrian Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the AT SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow the
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this
opinion, in whole or in part.

51.

The AT SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

12

