 

       

        

 

 

press statement

Artificial intelligence - and its consequences

On September 17, 2019, the State Commissioners for Data Protection and
freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate and Baden-Württemberg in the Ernst Bloch Center,
Ludwigshafen held an event on the subject of “Artificial Intelligence and the Consequences for
Economy, research, work and society”.

Artificial intelligence is one of the most important topics of our time. With this new one
Technology that not only transforms the digital space, but our entire living environment.
are not only hopes and fantasies, but also serious fears.
tied. Already at the 97th Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
of the federal and state governments (DSK) in April 2019 was chaired by Prof. Dr.
Kugelmann developed the "Hambach Declaration on Artificial Intelligence". The data-
safety authorities want to support the development of systems of artificial intelligence
constructively and critically. Science, politics and users will be in it
requested to use the associated opportunities in accordance with data protection regulations.

Both the LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate Prof. Dr. Kugelmann and the LfDI Baden-
Wuerttemberg Dr. Brink have been dealing for years as part of their supervisory and advisory
function on the subject of artificial intelligence. At this event, they will
the floor, however, to the invited speakers and their expert position
leave to take. Speakers will be representatives of the Enquête Commission “Artificial
Intelligence – Social responsibility and economic, social and environmental
Potentials” of the German Bundestag, i.e. Ronja Kemmer (CDU/CSU), Saskia Esken
(SPD), Dr. Petra Sitte (The Left), Dr. Anna Christmann (Bündnis 90/Die Grünen), the
Expert Lena-Sophie Müller from the D21 initiative and Professor Doris Aschen-
brenner from the Technical University of Delft (NL). Afterwards, a podium dis-
kiss Opportunity for questions and comments from the audience.

We cordially invite you to our event on Tuesday, September 17 at 5 p.m
at the Ernst Bloch Center. There is an opportunity at the subsequent reception
exchange the impressions gained over wine and pretzels.

For our planning we ask for a short advance registration at: kult@lfdi.bwl.de.

The number of seats is limited.

 

