 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, November 15, 2019

 

press release

 

Detective work on pixels:

Where does an image come from and how was it edited?

 

 
dr Christian Riess, Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nuremberg,
in the series of events on Data Tuesday on Tuesday, April 19
November 2019, at 7 p.m. in the Museum for Communication via Digital
Pictures of what you can do with them and what you can still believe in them.

 

The topic:

Programs for image and video editing are making it increasingly easier for home users to

Edit multimedia data or combine them into completely new stories. If all-

However, if an actual event is documented with a picture or video, this must be done beforehand

Can be checked for authenticity in court or in journalism: Is the place and time of the recording correct?

Is the image from the specified camera? Was the picture edited afterwards? The Multi

mediaforensik gets to the bottom of these questions. The lecture gives an insight into this sub-discipline

of computer science, and also picks up on current developments relating to deep fakes.

  

Target group:

Everyone is invited - whether young or old, technology guru or just an occasional driver on the

information superhighway. Everyone leaves traces of data there and usually does not know who is doing what with it.

The referee:

The speaker Dr. After studying at the Friedrich-Alexander University in Erlangen, Christian Riess

gen-Nürnberg (FAU) in 2012 on image forensics. From 2013 to 2015 he conducted research at the

ford University on X-ray interferometers, on which he has been working as a professor at FAU since 2015. Since 2017 is

dr Riess at the Chair of IT Security Infrastructures at FAU, group leader for multimedia security

Ness. His research interests are image processing, machine learning, and physics-based

methods with applications in IT security.

 

 

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



The series of events:

 

- 2 -

 

Since 2015, the Museum for Communication in Nuremberg, the professional association of

Data Protection Officer of Germany e.V. (BvD) and the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection

supervisory authority (BayLDA) the “Data Tuesday” lecture series. There is a lecture once a month

basically deals with questions of data protection and data security, but always also

piece also keeps an eye on the social relevance of the topics. These lectures are

designed for the general public and not (only) for a specialist audience. In the subsequent discussion

sion, the speakers are always available for a discussion.

 

The event takes place on

  

 

Tuesday, November 19, 2019 at 7 p.m.

in the Museum of Communication,

Lessingstrasse 6

90443 Nuremberg

Admission is free. Afterwards you are invited for a drink.

 

Information on these and the follow-up events of Data Tuesday can be found on the page
of the Museum for Communication (https://www.mfk-nuernberg.de/datendienstag/) and also on the
BayLDA website (www.lda.bayern.de).
 

 

Thomas Kranig

president

