 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
Public Sector Cloud Services
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection assumes joint
Investigation of the European data protection supervisory authorities

Munich, February 15, 2022

The European data protection supervisory authorities have carried out a coordinated investigation
ing the use of cloud-based services in the public sector. The measure-
acceptance is in the context of one set by the European Data Protection Board
Framework for the coordinated enforcement of European data protection law.

Especially since the COVID-19 pandemic, many people in charge of the public
Sectors are increasingly cloud-based services. In doing so, they must also meet the requirements of the EU
comply with data protection law. The European data protection supervisory authorities would like to
insofar as best practices are promoted through coordinated guidelines and measures and
work towards ensuring that those responsible provide adequate protection of personal data
secure data.

The joint investigation that has now begun affects more than 75 people responsible for public
sector, in addition to EU institutions, national bodies, for example from the areas of health
ity, finance, taxes, education or central services. In the investigation goes
it's not just about general data protection standards. The focus is in particular
special processes and security precautions when using cloud services, data
Transfers to third countries and regulations in connection with order processing
ments.

The European data protection supervisory authorities want the results of the coordinated
Evaluate the investigation together in order to then discuss possible further supervisory and
to decide on enforcement actions. The European Data Protection
schuss will publish a report on the aggregated results of this analysis.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection takes within the scope of his
digkeit actively participated in the measures taken by the European data protection supervisory authorities (see
also the press release of the European Data Protection Board of February 15, 2022
under
https://edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2022/launch-coordinated-enforcement-use-
cloud-public-sector_en).

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
bound by instructions.

 The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

