 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, July 15, 2019

 

press release

 

online tracking! Followed at every turn

 

Kristin Benedikt, head of the Internet department at the Bavarian
State Office for Data Protection Supervision, abducts the users in
the invisible world of data on the Internet. "How does that actually work?
Internet? Who gets my data? Why is my data so valuable?”
The speaker in the series answers these and many other questions
"DATA TUESDAY" on Tuesday, July 16, 2019 at 7:00 p.m
Museum of Communication.

 

The topic:

Every day we are followed online. It's no longer "just" about advertising.

Those who are on the Internet must expect to be tracked across websites and devices

becomes. How it works, what dangers result from it and how users feel

can protect against this, explains Kristin Benedikt in this lecture.

 

There are not only tips and tricks to cover your tracks on the Internet.

The speaker shows which data flows on the web and how the data streams are made visible

can, like users, unmask invisible third parties without knowledge of IT

and what risks they have to live with despite all protective measures.

Target group:

Everyone is invited - whether young or old, technology guru or social media beginner. Because everyone

leaves its mark on the web.

The speaker:

Kristin Benedikt is head of the Internet department at the Bavarian State Office for Data

protection supervision. It monitors and checks whether companies comply with data protection requirements

retain. In this context, she coordinates tests on topics such as SmartTVs,

Wearables, websites or language assistants. She is a speaker and author of numerous articles on

DSGVO and ePrivacy-VO.

 

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



The series of events:

 

- 2 -

 

Since 2015, the Museum for Communication in Nuremberg, the professional association of

Data Protection Officer of Germany e.V. (BvD) and the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection

supervisory authority (BayLDA) the “Data Tuesday” lecture series. There is a lecture once a month

basically deals with questions of data protection and data security, but always also

piece also keeps an eye on the social relevance of the topics. These lectures are

designed for the general public and not (only) for a specialist audience. In the subsequent discussion

sion, the speakers are always available for a discussion.

 

The event takes place on

  

 

Tuesday, July 16, 2019 at 7 p.m.

in the Museum of Communication,

Lessingstrasse 6

90443 Nuremberg

Admission is free. Afterwards you are invited for a drink.

 

Information on these and the follow-up events of Data Tuesday can be found on the page
of the Museum for Communication (https://www.mfk-nuernberg.de/datendienstag/) and also on the
BayLDA website (www.lda.bayern.de).
 

Thomas Kranig

president

 

