08/09/2022
Penalty for GDPR violation

In June 2022, the National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at the operator CDI Transport Intern si Internazionale SRL and found a violation of the provisions of art. 58 para. (1) lit. a) and e) and art. 12 para. (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
As such, the operator was penalized:

 with a fine of 34,630.40 lei, (the equivalent of 7000 EURO), for violating the provisions of art. 58 para. (1) lit. a) and e) of the General Data Protection Regulation;
 with a warning, for violating the provisions of art. 12 para. (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.

The investigation was started as a result of a notification that it was reported that on the company's website there is no information regarding the method of collecting personal data, regarding the rights provided for in art. 15-22 of the General Regulation on the Protection of Data that data subjects benefit from, regarding the manner of exercising these rights, nor regarding the fact that the operator has the obligation to inform the data subjects in the event of a breach of personal data security.
During the investigation carried out, as a result of the fact that the operator did not provide the information requested by our institution, within the legal term, a violation of the provisions of art. 58 para. (1) lit. (a) and (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
At the same time, it was noted that the operator CDI Transport Intern si Internaționale SRL did not provide clear, complete and correct information to the data subjects whose personal data is processed by the company because it did not provide all the information provided by the provisions of art. 12-22 of the General Data Protection Regulation, such as those relating to the purpose of processing and the legal basis, the identity and contact details of the operator, the period for which the data will be stored or the criteria used to establish this period, the conditions for exercising rights. As such, the violation of the provisions of art. 12 para. (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
At the same time, the operator was also ordered to take the corrective measure of ensuring the information of the persons concerned by communicating in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form all the information provided by art. 12 of the General Data Protection Regulation.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.