1/56

 File No.: PS/00185/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 26, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed against the entity MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND SPORTS, with
NIF S2800237F (hereinafter, the claimed party, the Ministry or MCD), as
responsible for the "eBiblio" platform. The reasons on which the claim is based are
the following:

a) You question whether you are required to register as an Adobe user if you wish to use
"eBiblio" in your "ereader", and interprets it as a transfer of data to Adobe.

b) You state that your comments and scores are shared with the company
"Babelius".

c) Next, it details a series of anomalies that it deduces from the information that is
included in the documents "eBiblio Terms of Use and Privacy" and "Policy of
eBiblio Privacy” (indicates the links that lead to these documents, which
declares to have obtained on 01/28/2021), and indicates the regulatory breach
that occurs, in his opinion, for each of these anomalies:

1. “The role of the successful bidder (Distribuidora Digital de Libros, S.A.U., hereinafter
LIBRANDA; company belonging to the Canadian business group "De Marque") is
of person in charge of the treatment and not deco-controller or co-responsible”, according to the Law
9/2017, of November 8, on Public Sector Contracts, additional provision
twenty fifth. It supposes a breach of article 28.10 of the GDPR, since the
The person in charge of the treatment determines the means and purposes of the treatment.
On this same point, it warns that if there is co-responsibility in the treatment of
personal data between the MCD entity and the Autonomous Communities and Cities,
These entities breach the provisions of Article 26 of the GDPR, which requires
publish the co-responsibility agreement and identify all co-responsible parties.

2. "The identification of the data controller is incorrect and incomplete."
The complaining party understands that article 13 of the GDPR is breached by not informing
of all the data of the controller and co-responsible parties, if applicable. And he adds that "in the
In the event that Libranda is considered co-responsible for the treatment, it is also
would breach the LSSICE as Libranda is a provider located in Spain" (article 10.1
b)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/56

3. "To provide the services, Adobe's participation is necessary (create a
account) and Babelio as data controllers since it is necessary to
deliver data and accept independent privacy policies and conditions”.
You understand that these are transfers of data that the user is forced to accept
in order to use the service.

And if those entities are managers, they cannot collect data as managers.
In addition, the complaining party points out that the Ministry has the means to avoid having
than to force the user to register with Adobe.

4. "It is indicated that they can collect location data without specifying the purpose,
legitimation, conservation period, etc.", contrary to the provisions of article 13
of the GDPR.

5. "Use of third-party statistical cookies without complying with the obligations of
consent for its installation", which violates, according to the claimant, the
Articles 7 and 13 of the GDPR and Article 22 of the LSSICE, in the event that it is
application.

6. “Use of third-party statistical cookies with possible accommodation in the US
without informing of the due guarantees applied”. It is indicated that the information
It is “usually” stored on secure servers in Europe, which suggests
that in some cases you can stay outside, without specifying it. The
Articles 13, 6, 7 and 44 of the GDPR.

7. Consent is not the basis that legitimizes the collection, transfer,
storage, use and control of personal information, as stated in the Policy
of Privacy: the causes of legitimacy in Public Administrations are other and, specifically, in this
case. Article 6 of the GDPR is breached.

8. The service cannot be accessed if the Privacy Policy is not accepted in your
set; there is no granular consent that validates each issue in a way
independent, contrary to the provisions of article 7 of the GDPR.

9. Storage in the US and/or Canada without specifying the measures taken to
comply with the GDPR regarding international transfers, in accordance with the
Article 44 of said Regulation.

Regarding the security measures, he points out that as they are providers of Administrations
Public must apply the security measures contained in the Scheme
National Security (first final provision of the LOPDGDD).

10. Conservation period of 6 years not justified.

11. The "Terms and Conditions" document does not appear to have been originally written in
Spanish, which makes it difficult to understand (article 12.1 of the GDPR).

12. In the "Your content" section of the "Terms and conditions" document, the
an irrevocable, perpetual, non-exclusive, transferable, free license to copy,
modify, display or use its content": Articles 7 are breached (consent

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/56

revocable) and 13 (does not indicate the possible recipients) of the GDPR.
   

Provide screenshots of creating a user in Adobe from the
“Help” section of the “eBiblio” website and of the information on “Babelio” offered
before inserting a comment or criticism.

Likewise, provide a copy of the documents “eBiblio Platform. Conditions of Use” and
eBiblio platform. Privacy Policy”, the content of which is reviewed in
Annexes 2 and 3.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party and to the
awardee entity LIBRANDA, so that they proceed to their analysis and inform
this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to
the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected by both entities on the date
05/25/2021 as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

1. On 06/11/2021, this Agency received a written response from the Ministry
claimed, in which he reported the following:

“eBiblio” is a free online electronic book lending service offered to
through Spanish public libraries. It is coordinated and promoted by the MCD
in collaboration with the library services of the Autonomous Communities. HE
based on cooperation between administrations by which the Ministry offers the
CC.AA. the platform in charge of managing the service and a fund of titles
common. The Communities adapt and increase the collection based on the
interests and particularities of its users. This allows the CCAAs to offer a
electronic document loan service (books, magazines and audiobooks), to
through their respective networks of public libraries.

The service is accessible "24x7" through the Internet and allows reading both online
as via download. In addition, it has a free application for
mobile devices that manages all activities related to the loan and
reading documents.

It indicates that to use the service "the contribution is not required at any time
of personal data", but it would be enough to have a device
reading compatible with the content publication format, access to
internet and the card of any of the public libraries that participate in the
service or equivalent.

To make use of the service, the user must authenticate himself by means of the number of
library card and a password. For this, the platform uses a web system
already developed by the Ministry that the different integrated systems have

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/56

library management systems used by the CCAA library networks
participants in the “eBiblio” service. This system connects with the database that
contains the identification data of public library users in each network
to validate them and are used solely for said users to carry out the
loan service.

The MCD acquires the "eBiblio" service management platform through
open procedure, in order to award it to a bidder who, complying with the
requirements of the Technical Specification Sheets and the Clauses Sheet
Private Administrative, provide a commercial platform for managing
licenses for electronic books and digital content.

Regarding the "eBiblio" service, it is clear that the Ministry does not
requires the user of the same no personal data and therefore does not
stores information subject to the GDPR on its servers. User data
are collected by the libraries when applying for the card and these data are incorporated into
the database of the regional library network.

The aforementioned Ministry understands that it is not responsible for the treatment of the data of the
users of the service, since it does not possess such data.
 
Regarding the function of the Ministry, in addition to the contracting of the platform and the
acquisition of most of the content, this consists of facilitating contact
between the winning company and the CCAA, which are competent in the matter.

The MCD, with its response to the transfer, provides a copy of the Contract signed by said
Ministry with the entity LIBRANDA, dated 12/16/2020, which is in charge of
this entity the "implementation of the computerized management system of the
loans of electronic books "eBiblio" that allows the loans of the
electronic documents hosted on it (ebook, audio, periodicals,
video, etc.", as well as a copy of the Specific Administrative Clauses and
Sheet of Technical Requirements that govern this contract (Proven Facts
Third to Fifth). The content of the Technical Specifications Sheet consists of
outlined in Annex 1.

2. On 06/26/2021, a response to the transfer of the LIBRANDA entity was received, in
which states the following:

. Privacy Policy

In March 2021, a review and update of the Privacy Policy was carried out.
Privacy that resolved some of the deficiencies revealed in the
claim. Indicates that the claim is based on a Privacy Policy
outdated.

. Role of LIBRANDA as successful bidder

In accordance with the formalized contract, LIBRANDA provides the platform
"eBiblio" with a series of technical and functional peculiarities.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/56

LIBRANDA must have a system to identify a user with the library or
library network, so it accesses library management systems to
contrast the library card numbers with those inserted by users when
register on the “eBiblio” platform. Use this card number to make the
authentication through library management systems, but in no way
moment stores said data.

It indicates that it has adjusted the content of the Privacy Policy to reflect with
greater clarity of LIBRANDA's role as data processor
personal, taking into account the twenty-fifth second additional provision of the
Law 9/2017 of November 8 on Public Sector Contracts (“LCSP”), which
states that “2. In the event that the contract implies access by the
contractor to personal data whose processing is responsible for the
contracting entity, that one will be considered as the person in charge of the treatment”.

. Identification of LIBRANDA in the Privacy Policy

LIBRANDA's social data is clearly identified in the Privacy Policy,
indicating your company name, postal address, mailing address
email and a phone.

It adds that it has included in the repeated Privacy Policy the data of each
library as data controller, through a referral to the site
website of the corresponding library.

. Processing of personal data by third parties

Regarding access to Adobe's DRM (Digital Rights Manager) service, which
allows the download of contents for reading in "ereader" and in PC with the program
“Adobe Digital Editions”, they assure that it was a function requested by the Ministry and the
different communities for users who prefer that method of reading.

Adobe registration is not an essential condition to access the service
provided by LIBRANDA, since it is possible to access the contents of the
streaming platform, through any browser with an internet connection, and
using smartphones or tablets, for which the user must download the
corresponding mobile application.

As for Babelio, he reports that it is a tool for rating books
that it has its own privacy policy, the acceptance of which is not mandatory for
access the “eBiblio” service. In addition, in March 2021 the form was adjusted
to publish evaluations related to the titles of "eBiblio", adding a box without
premark so that the user can accept the conditions of "Babelio", as well as
a link to that entity's privacy policy.

. location data

Location data is collected only through Google cookies
Analytics, to generate statistics and reports on browsing the platform.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/56

Notice that a link to the Google Analytics privacy policy has been added.

. Use of cookies

Regarding the use of third-party statistical cookies, you state that by providing the
identity of Google and with the reference to the privacy policy of this entity is given
compliance with the information obligation provided for in article 13 of the GDPR.
Likewise, it adds that it has adopted a system that makes it possible to accept, reject or
revocation of consent for the use of Google Analytics cookies.

. International transfers

LIBRANDA indicates that the Privacy Policy refers to that of Google Analytics, and
that informs about the guarantees adopted with respect to the data stored in
USA by Google Analytics and on the use of standard contractual clauses
drawn up by the European Commission in the contracts signed between the parties that
transfer personal data.

On the other hand, LIBRANDA points out that it expressly reports the location of the
servers where the personal data collected in the section are stored
"Security Measures" of the Privacy Policy of the platform. It has been clarified
in said Policy that the data collected is stored in Europe and it is specified
when they are stored outside of it.

. Legitimate basis of processing

LIBRANDA indicates that nothing prevents the treatment from being based on more than one
of the options established in article 6 of the GDPR, nor that a
public administration cannot be based exclusively on consent to
Process personal data from a public library access service.

It understands that consent is the legal basis that legitimizes the treatment of personal data.
data, since it is the same legal basis used by public libraries in
quality of data controllers. LIBRANDA holds the role of manager of the
treatment, and, consequently, does not decide on the basis that legitimizes the treatment
of the data.

. Consent for purposes

The purpose "to facilitate the loan of the documents included in the platform"
provided in the "Summary-Table" of the Specific Administrative Clauses Specifications
is the only purpose for which the consent of the user is required, not
having other different purposes that require additional consent.

It informs that it has adjusted the Privacy Policy to clarify the purpose and explain
the specific processing of personal data that is carried out.

. Security measures

Carried out a self-assessment regarding compliance with the national schemes of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/56

security and interoperability following the ICT Security Guide CCN-STIC
803, which is available to the AEPD if necessary.

. Data retention period

They consider that they made a mistake when indicating a data retention period of
six years, which has been modified in the update of the Privacy Policy
carried out in March 2021, having foreseen that once the service is finished
LIBRANDA will return or destroy the personal data, according to the request of each
library.

. Clarity and simplicity in the language of the Privacy Policy

LIBRANDA considers that, although the "original" Privacy Policy was drafted in a
foreign language, "the information provided is correct, clear and simple,
allowing the user to understand it. However, they have revised the language, improving
certain definitions and expressions.

. withdrawal of consent

The section "Your content" of the Conditions of Use refers to "the assignment of a
license on the possible intellectual property rights that fall on the
content shared by the user on the platform”. It doesn't mean that the
consent to data processing cannot be withdrawn.

Of the documentation that LIBRANDA provides with its response, it is worth noting the
following:

A) "Documentation accrediting the relationship between the managers of the platform
eBiblio and the Ministry of Culture and Sports in the event that there is a relationship of
manager-responsible…”.

"In accordance with the twenty-fifth second additional provision of the LCSP, Libranda to the
acting as a contractor, would assume the position of "processor". Thus,
We understand that there is a manager-responsible relationship between Libranda and the Ministry
of Culture and Sport.

Likewise, the provisions of article 28.3 GDPR are complied with through the signed Contract
between Libranda and the Ministry of Culture and Sports dated December 16, 2020 (in
hereinafter the "Contract"), in which reference is made to the provision of services by
Libranda in accordance with the Specific Administrative Clauses and the
Technical Prescriptions..., documents that as a whole govern the contracting of the service...

The Specifications establish that the order of the treatment will be carried out in accordance with the
national and European Union regulations on data protection. In particular, the
Sheets provide the following information:

Yo. The object of the treatment entrusted to Libranda is stipulated in section 3.3. of the sheet
technical, in particular, it deals with the identification of the user of a library, being able to
Both the library card number and any other equivalent constitute personal data.
ii. The duration of data processing by Libranda is determined by the contract of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/56

provision of services awarded to it. That is to say, that, once the service is finished,
Libranda will return or destroy personal data, at the discretion of each library.
iii. The nature and purpose of the treatment are indicated, in addition to section 3.3 of the specifications
technical, in section 17.bis of the Table-summary of the administrative document. In this,
It is clearly described that the purpose of processing the transferred data is "to facilitate the
loan of the documents included in the platform”.
iv. Likewise, the type of data subject to treatment and the category of interested parties are indicated in
the technical specifications, specifically in its section 3.3 when it is specified that the data will be "your
library card number or equivalent", consequently, it is data of
identification, and that the interested parties are "the users of each library network".
v. Finally, the particularities of article 28.3 a) to h) are included in the specifications
administrative, clause 16 bis, by reference to the RGPD…”.

B) Privacy Policy, according to its version updated on 06/23/2021. He
content of this version is reproduced in ANNEX 4.

THIRD: On 07/30/2021, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 05/13/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged violation of the
Articles 28.3 and 13 of the GDPR, typified, respectively, in Articles 83.4.a) and
83.5.b) of the same Regulation; and classified as serious and mild for the purposes of
prescription in articles 73.k) and 74.a) of the LOPDGDD.

In the opening agreement it was determined that the sanctions that could correspond,
if the violations are confirmed, it would be a warning; and it was noted that the
imputed violations may lead to the imposition of measures, according to the aforementioned
Article 58.2 d) of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party presented a pleading in which it requests the
procedure file based on the following considerations:

1. In relation to compliance with article 28.3 of the GDPR.

The MCD entity is not responsible for the processing of data collected by the
access and use of the eBiblio platform. This responsibility is assumed by the
Autonomous Communities that manage the service uniquely and exclusively in their
respective territories, becoming responsible for the data by incorporating into the
"Privacy Policy" of the eBiblio page of each territory a link to the website of
the corresponding library.

In other words, there is no usual dual relationship of contracting party-performer, which is
would correspond to the person in charge and person in charge of treatment, but some bodies
intermediates on which the relationship with the citizens and the loan of the
books (with the technical support of the contract performer), which are the Communities and
Autonomous cities.

Following the doctrine of the AEPD of 11/20/2019 and STS 772/2020, the concept of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/56

responsible for the treatment is not formal but functional, and Report 0064/2020 of the
Legal Office of the AEPD that is cited in the notification: "in most of the
assumptions must be taken into account the circumstances of the specific case (case by case)
attending to their real needs”. In this specific case, the person in charge of the
treatment, from a functional point of view, cannot be the MCD since neither access nor
You need to access any data related to the users of the service.

The role of the MCD is that of "financier" of a loan management platform of
electronic content that it offers voluntarily to the Autonomous Communities, which are in
ultimately those who decide or not to use it and on what terms.

The AEPD report points out in that same Fundament II that "the MCD entity is
responsible for the processing of these data even if you do not have access to them.
Indicates that this is the case, following Directives 7/2020 of the European Protection Committee
of Data that refers to the case that a service activity had been outsourced
treatment, which is not the case in this case.

The MCD considers that the Autonomous Communities and Cities participating in
the eBiblio service who are responsible for the data, as established
directly on the web pages of the service within their respective scopes
territorial and can be verified, according to the Ministry, in the document that
accompanies, which corresponds to the information available in "eBiblio Andalucía"
(selected according to alphabetical order). This document provided indicates:

<<Privacy and liability policy
In the eBiblio Privacy Policy designed by LIBRANDA, SA [available at:
https://guiadeuso.ebiblio.es/confluence/ebiblio-user/es/preguntas-frecuentes/condiciones-
generals/web-platform/web-platform-privacy-policy], it is exposed:
“The local administration of your library (the Library) is responsible for the treatment of your
personal information. You can find the identity and data of your Library, as well as the data of the
corresponding data protection delegate, by accessing its website”.

eBiblio Andalusia

In the "Information" tab of the eBiblio Andalucía portal [available at:
https://andalucia.ebiblio.es/about], the following section appears:

1.1. Access data
How can I become a user?
The requirements to access eBiblio Andalucía are:
• Have a user card (reader card) of a library in the Library Network
Public of Andalusia. If you still do not have the user card you can go to the library
network or process the online application, if you have a digital certificate.
• Have an active and unique email account (one per reader), which will be
communicated to your library so that they can associate it with your user card.
• A password, which you probably received from your library when you registered as a
reader (it is the same one that is used to enter the Catalog of the Network of Public Libraries
of Andalusia).

When accessing the online user card process, it directs us to the following page of
information from the Andalusian Library Network:

(The image of the page "Network of public libraries of Andalusia" is inserted, which includes
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/56

links to request the user card).

At the bottom of the page, we find a data protection clause that indicates:

"In compliance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, we
We inform that:
a) The person responsible for the processing of your personal data is: General Directorate of
Historical and Documentary Heritage whose address is: C/ Levíes, 27. -- 41004 -- Seville
b) You can contact the Data Protection Officer at the email address
dpd.ccul@juntadeandalucia.es
c) The personal data you provide us is necessary for: management of the services of
loan and consultation of the Network of Public Libraries of Andalusia, whose legal basis is
based on: Order of September 24, 2001 (BOJA no. 129, of 11.8.2001), which regulates the
access, services and loan service of the Network of Public Libraries of Andalusia,
amended by: Order of July 30, 2007, which modifies the order of September 24,
2001, which regulates the access, services and loan service of the Libraries of the
Network of Public Libraries of Andalusia (BOJA no. 170 of 8.29.2007) and Order of 29
December 2008, which establishes the requirements for obtaining the
user of the Network of Public Libraries of Andalusia (BOJA no. 17 of 1.27.2009)”>>.

The fact that the CCAAs appear as responsible on their web pages
eBiblio, reveals this dissociation of competences and, therefore, of
responsibilities. In other words, on the one hand, the MCD offers the Autonomous Communities the platform
in charge of the management of the service, not having in any case, access to the data
of a personal nature of the users nor expressing therefore any information
about their treatment.

The Autonomous Community acts as the controller of the data that
houses and connects with the integrated management systems of their respective
libraries, since it is the one who ultimately determines the ends and means of
the same, as manager of the user card of the respective library networks
that they offer exclusively in their respective territories.

He considers that the confusion about the determination of the Ministry as responsible for
the data may be due to an interpretation of the Specifications and Clauses
Private Administrative for the contracting of the management platform of the
service through open procedure. To avoid this interpretation, which
obeys the spirit or the pursued object, we are going to improve the wording of said
specifications and future clauses.

Although, in the specific administrative documents and clauses it is clear that the
The objective is the implementation of the loan service management system of
digital content so that the service at the national level is never left
interrupted, not appearing at any time mention about the management of the
personal data of users, which are carried out, as already indicated, between the
libraries of the Autonomous Communities and Cities and the company currently
awardee.

The CCAAs have jurisdiction over libraries of interest to them and are
responsible for the management of the services they offer in their territories (Article
148.1.15 of the Spanish Constitution) and not the State. The MCD cannot, since it does not
has powers to do so, to impose any purpose on what has no powers.
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/56

The processing activities take place on the territorial eBiblio web pages
because it is the libraries themselves that are legally responsible for their services and the
data of its users and the contribution of the Ministry consists of facilitating the
continuity of the necessary infrastructure for its extension to the virtual world.

2. In relation to compliance with article 13 of the GDPR, in relation to the
articles 4 and 12.1 of the GDPR
.
The MCD maintains, in accordance with the rules that make up the block of
constitutionality, that the autonomous communities participating in eBiblio are the
responsible for both service management (ex lege) and data processing
in their respective territories. In this sense, the CCAAs are in charge of
issue the user cards of their library networks and collect the data of the
user necessary for this purpose and for the use of the content loan service
digital eBiblio, being therefore responsible for the data and for providing the
information that must be provided in compliance with article 13 of the GDPR.

Said information appears collected on the websites of each regional eBiblio service,
as can be verified through its access links (indicates these links
corresponding to each of the CCAAs).

The responsibility in the treatment of the data collected by the access and use of the
eBiblio platform is assumed by the Autonomous Communities that manage the
service in a unique and exclusive way in their respective territories, becoming
responsible for the data by incorporating into the "Privacy Policy" of the
eBiblio page of each territory a link to the website of the corresponding library.
It is, as indicated in the first section of this statement of allegations, a
digital transcript of a physical library. The competence of that management does not vary.

However, two things to keep in mind:

Regarding the language and personal data protection information provided
to the user, the website has been updated since 2021, taking the
appropriate measures to remedy any of the deficiencies described in the
AEPD file and that are currently public from the eBiblio website. Bliss
The web is the main information tool for the user and uses a language
transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language that can
be read and understood by a minor, since they are part of the potential target audience of the
service by having content aimed at adult, youth and children audiences.

You can check the language style change by comparing the web versions
that were in force at the time of the claim (2021) and the current one. To this
In this regard, it attaches a copy of a "comparison of the web appearance as of the date of the
claim (May 2021) and to the current date (July 2022”, which includes the detail
of the information offered in May 2021 in the tabs “What is it?” and "make yourself
partner” (“Who can use eBiblio?”, “Start using eBiblio” and “What does eBiblio offer?
eBiblio?”) and the one offered in July 2022 in the tabs “What is it?” and “How to use it?”
(“What do I need?”, “Through the web or the App”, “Start using it”). None of the
The aforementioned sections include information on data protection
personal.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/56

You can also check the change made for compliance with
web accessibility with a more contrasting, informative and clean style.

Likewise, in order to have a legal document that establishes
clear and transparent responsibility on the part of the Autonomous Communities
as responsible for the data, the Ministry has initiated contact with them in order to
inform them about the need to incorporate clearer informative clauses of
accordance with the articles of the GDPR. Also, from the Ministry we have started
to work on a legal document model to serve as a basis for the CCAAs that
use eBiblio to, where appropriate, sign the appropriate contracts in terms of
data protection with the company awarded the service.

3.- In relation to the management of the eBiblio back office by the Ministry of
Culture.

The SDG for Library Coordination of the General Directorate for Books and the Promotion of
the Reading of the MCD, dated July 1, 2022 and for the sake of better compliance
of what is established in the RGPD and in the doctrine of the AEPD, has requested the
awardee of the eBiblio service, LIBRANDA, that the global user who uses the
Ministry in the management platform or back office of eBiblio does not have access to data
of any kind about the users, since they are data provided by the
autonomous communities and to which the Ministry does not access, has never accessed and
you don't need access.

SIXTH: On 10/21/2022, during the test phase, the instructor of the
procedure agreed to incorporate the information and/or documentation into the actions
following:

a) Copy of the following information, available on the website "madrid.ebiblio.es":

. In the main menu, section "Information".

“eBiblio is a free online e-book lending service offered through
Spanish public libraries, is coordinated and promoted by the General Subdirectorate
of Library Coordination of the Ministry of Culture and Sports in collaboration with
the Library Services of the Autonomous Communities and Cities…

To use eBiblio Madrid you need a user card for libraries and library services.
public reading of the Community of Madrid…”.
 
. In the menu at the bottom of the page, documents "Terms and conditions" and "Policy of
Confidentiality”.

Terms of use:

“By using the Service, you agree to enter into a contract that binds you with your library, and
with DISTRIBUIDORA DIGITAL DE LIBROS, S.A.U., ("Libranda") (each individually a
"Manager" or collectively the "Managers"), under the conditions established in these
Terms…".

“Your privacy
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/56

Managers care about protecting your personal information and respecting your
privacy. Information about the type of information collected during your use of the Service,
the reasons for which said information is collected and the use made of it is
available at the following link: "Privacy Policy", which you are responsible for reviewing
and acknowledge having read and understood your acceptance of these Terms.”

“Content of Libranda or third parties
You are informed and acknowledge that Libranda is the owner of: (a) the Service, including any
text, image, sound, video, model, plan, map, picture, icon, software, design,
applications, data, graphic presentations, trademarks, logos and slogans created or
used by Libranda and over which it owns the intellectual property rights; (b)
any tools, computer hardware and software used to provide the Service; and (c)
graphic design, user interface and appearance of the Service”.
Privacy Policy

The content of this information matches the version of the Privacy Policy
of 06/23/2021, provided by LIBRANDA in its response to the transfer process of the
claim, the content of which is outlined in Annex 4.

b) Through the link "Regional Catalog" inserted in the previous document
"madrid.ebiblio.Información", accesses the website of the Library Network of the
Community of Madrid and the document called
"Legal Notice", available at the bottom of the page. Includes a "Privacy" section with
General information of the Community of Madrid in relation to personal data
that are collected through their websites. It is not a specific information in this
matter in relation to the eBiblio service.

c) Copy of the following information, available on the website "canarias.ebiblio.es":

. In the main menu, section "Information".

“eBiblio is a free online e-book lending service offered through
Spanish public libraries, is coordinated and promoted by the General Subdirectorate
of Library Coordination of the Ministry of Culture and Sports in collaboration with
the Library Services of the Autonomous Communities and Cities…

If you are a member of any of the libraries of the Red de Bibliotecas de Canarias (BICA) you are already
user of eBiblioCanarias. If it is not, you can go to the nearest public library that
be part of said Network and register as a member or you can register online at
the OpacWeb of the BICA Network (Libraries of the Canary Islands)…”.
 
. In the menu at the bottom of the page, documents "Terms and conditions" and "Policy of
Confidentiality”. The content of these documents is similar to that outlined for the
case of “madrid.ebiblio.es”.

d) Access the website of the Canary Islands Government Libraries Network and obtain
the document called "Legal Notice", available at the bottom of the page. Includes a
section "Privacy Policy" with information addressed to "users of
public libraries”. It is not a specific information in relation to the service
eBiblio.

SEVENTH: On 12/02/2022, a resolution proposal was formulated in the sense

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/56

following:

1. That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
with a warning to the MCD entity, for the infringement of articles 28.3 and 13 of the
GDPR, typified in articles 83.4.a) and 83.5.b) of the same Regulation, and
classified as serious and minor in articles 73.k) and 74.a) of the LOPDGDD,
respectively.

2. That the Director of the AEPD requires the claimed entity so that, in the
term to be determined, adopt the necessary measures to adapt its action to
the personal data protection regulations, with the scope expressed in the
Fundamentals of Rights of the proposed resolution.

EIGHTH: Once the aforementioned resolution proposal has been notified to the MCD, a letter is received from
said entity in which it requests the filing of the sanctioning procedure. The aforementioned
entity bases its request on the following considerations:

. The MCD begins by noting two preliminary issues related to the
Organization of competences in library matters.

Firstly, it refers to what is established in the Spanish Constitution, articles
148.1.15ª and 149.1.28ª, to conclude that the management of the MCD in this area is
extends the buildings and funds of the state-owned libraries and the cooperation
librarian.

In addition, it indicates that it promoted the eBiblio system, providing the platform and a
set of digital book licenses, to allow all Spanish libraries
be able to offer digital content based on the functions that in terms of
library cooperation is conferred on it by Law 10/2007, of June 22, on reading,
books and libraries, contributing to the purposes set out in its article 14.3:
promote the development of Spanish libraries and foster equality in the
access to public service throughout the State.

. To promote those services and then offer them to Communities and Cities
Autonomous, the MCD acquired the platform through a public sector contract, through
through a call in an open procedure, whose specifications were prepared according to
in accordance with the provisions of Law 9/2017, on Public Sector Contracts.

Thus, it is mentioned in the Specification of Particular Administrative Clauses the obligation
of the contractor to respect the current regulations on data protection, of
in accordance with article 122 of the aforementioned Law, according to the details that are reviewed
in the Third Proven Fact of the proposed resolution. Considering this
content of the Specific Administrative Clauses, the MCD admits that
defines the purposes of data processing.

As regards the Technical Specifications Sheet, the MCD refers to the
statistics generation module listed among the functional requirements
required of the "eBiblio" service management platform, noting that in this
module only the final anonymized statistical data is found and that to the MCD
You are not allowed to access personal data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/56

The MCD, as promoter and coordinator of the contract, will be in charge through the
General Sub-Directorate for Library Coordination to monitor the
provision of the service, making sure that all the requirements demanded of the
platform are provided correctly throughout the entire duration of the
contract

. In the present case, and following the Guidelines 07/2020 of the European Committee of
Data Protection (CEPD) on the concepts of data controller and
in charge of the treatment in the RGPD”, the MCD establishes the end of the treatment, but
not the essential means thereof. In no case does the MCD establish what kind of
data will be processed, what will be the duration of the treatment or who will have access to them
data.

Both the document “eBiblio Platform. Conditions of use” as the document
eBiblio platform. Privacy Policy" have not been prepared with the participation
of the MCD, since this Ministry determines the purposes of data processing in accordance
to what is established in the LCSP, but not the essential means

In the version of “eBiblio Platform. Privacy Policy" in force at the time
in which the claim was made, it was indicated what data was collected directly
of the user (first name, last name, email address, browsing history,
location data…). These essential means were not established by the MCD.

In the version of “eBiblio Platform. Privacy Policy" dated 06/23/2021 is
designates the local administration of the library as the person in charge of the treatment of
the data, being it, as public administration, the one that determines ends and means.

Therefore, the MCD only establishes the purposes and the software (non-essential means) with
which the treatment will be carried out, but in no case does it establish the means
essential. The MCD promotes and coordinates the platform, facilitating the Communities
Self-employed who want an electronic document loan service, but
the Autonomous Communities are the ones that fully manage the service.

In accordance with the aforementioned Guidelines 07/2020, co-responsibility exists when
different parties jointly determine the purposes and means of processing.
In this case, although the purposes are common (facilitate the loan of documents
included in the platform), the means are not determined jointly by the two
parties, but only by the Autonomous Communities by virtue of their powers.

. In the next Technical Specification Sheets, the MCD undertakes to
establish that those responsible for data processing must regulate an act
prior to the use of the service in which the treatment of the data is regulated.
data.

. The MCD declares that it agrees with what is indicated in the proposed resolution on
the obligation of the data controller to provide the data subjects with the
information on data protection, avoiding that the Privacy Policy
be drawn up by the successful bidder. The MCD undertakes, in the future Specifications
Technical Prescriptions, to establish that those responsible for the treatment of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/56

data must give instructions to the winning company on the means of
treatment and, therefore, on the wording of the Privacy Policy.

. The MCD ends by detailing the actions that it intends to carry out in the next
contracting, committing to include in the specifications:
 
. A clear definition of the figures of the person responsible for the data and the person in charge, of
according to the Law.
. The obligation for data controllers to sign a legal agreement
with the successful bidder, prior to the use of the service, in which the
data treatment.
. The obligation of those responsible for the data to draw up the Privacy Policy
Service privacy.

It also adds that, in the next contract, the MCD will agree with the
Autonomous Communities the essential means for data processing,
becoming stewards. Thus, in the next contracts that are formalized
of this platform, both the MCD and the Autonomous Communities that want to
make use of the eBiblio electronic loan service must:
 
. Establish a legal mechanism that regulates the processing of data.
. Establish the Privacy Policy that will appear on the eBiblio service page,
which will include the modifications included in sections IV and V of the Fundamentals
Law of the Resolution Proposal.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: "eBiblio" is an online lending service for electronic books and other
digital content (such as magazines or audiobooks) driven, coordinated and managed
by the MCD. It includes a computerized management system or loan platform and a
application for mobile devices that the MCD makes available to Cities and
Autonomous Communities (all, except for the Basque Country).

SECOND: The MCD acquires the "eBiblio" service management platform and the app
through a public sector contract, in an open procedure. In the year 2020, the
MCD made a call for the contracting and implementation of the platform
current book and app loan.

THIRD: The Specification of Particular Administrative Clauses that governs the
summons outlined in the Second Proven Fact contemplates, among others, the
following obligations of the parties:

. The successful bidder may not use for itself, nor provide to third parties, any data
of the contracted works or publish, totally or partially, the content of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/56

themselves without written authorization from the contracting authority.

. The successful bidder acquires the commitment of faithful and careful custody of all the
information that is provided for the performance of the service and, with it, the
obligation that neither the documentation nor the information it contains reaches
in no case to the power of third parties

. In the event of the execution of the contract, it implies the transfer of data to the
contractor:

. The contractor will be subject, in any case, to the national regulations and the
European Union on data protection.
. The winning company must present before the formalization of the
contract a statement that shows where they will be
where the servers are located and from where the associated services will be provided
to the same

. According to Clause 28, it is indicated that the successful bidder will be obliged to
compliance with all the obligations that, in terms of security and protection
of data, establishes the LOPDGDD.

On the other hand, in the "Summary-Table" that accompanies the Sheet it is stipulated:

“16. Place of delivery of the works or provision of the services included in the contract:
The benefits related to the management of the computer system for the loan of books and
digital content will be developed at the headquarters of the successful bidder”.
“17.bis. Purpose of the treatment of the transferred data: To facilitate the loan of the
documents included in the platform”.

The full content of the Specific Administrative Clauses Sheet set by the
MCD, which is incorporated into the proceedings, is declared reproduced in this act to
evidentiary effects.

FOURTH: In accordance with the Technical Specifications Sheet that governs the
summons outlined in the Second Proven Fact, its purpose is:

"The purpose of this technical specifications document is the contracting and implementation
of a computer management system or platform for lending electronic books and others
digital content in public libraries of the Cities and Autonomous Communities, which
ensure the uninterrupted maintenance of the current "eBiblio" service, promoted by the
Ministry of Culture and Sport…
The IT management system will include mobile applications, at least for iOS and Android.
Its management will correspond to the General Subdirectorate of Library Coordination of the
Ministry of Culture and Sport (from now on, the managing body)”.

According to what is indicated in this Specification, the system that is intended to be contracted "will include a
set of computer applications, as well as hardware resources and
necessary communications, capable of managing accommodation and access to
electronic content, as well as the temporary loan of the same to users of
public libraries...", corresponding to the contractor to contribute all the resources
necessary to meet the functional requirements detailed in the same Specification and the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/56

platform maintenance.

The functional requirements include enabling a module for
generation of statistics, which must have a user for each Community and
another global, and the configuration of a maximum of 18 independent sectors “to give
service to the public libraries of the different Communities and Cities
Autonomous, in whose management the technical services responsible for
libraries of these administrations”.

Likewise, you must use the "web service system" already developed by the MCD or
any other provided by the contractor to authenticate the user through his
library card number or equivalent and a password. This "system of
authentication of platform users must connect with the database or databases
data containing the identification data of authorized users in each
network in order to validate them”.

The MCD itself, through the General Subdirectorate for Library Coordination, is
the person responsible for monitoring the provision of the service.

The full content of the Technical Specifications Sheet set by the MCD itself is
declares reproduced in this act for evidentiary purposes. Part of the content of this
Specifications are incorporated into this act as Annex 1.
 
FIFTH: In the summons outlined in the Second Proven Fact, it resulted
the entity LIBRANDA was awarded.
 
To formalize the award, the MCD and LIBRANDA signed the corresponding
contract dated 12/16/2020. Regarding the protection of personal data, this
contract includes only a mention of the obligation of confidentiality of
LIBRANDA and in terms of security:

“Thirteenth. The successful bidder acquires the commitment of faithful and careful custody of all the
information provided for the performance of the contracted service, as well as the obligation
that neither the documentation nor the information it contains reaches the power of the
from third parties.
Likewise, the successful bidder will have the obligation to keep confidentiality, during a period of five
years from its knowledge, regarding the background or data that, not being public or
well-known, are related to the object of the contract or of which you have information with
occasion thereof."

The full content of this contract is declared reproduced in this act for the purposes
evidence.

SIXTH: The "eBiblio" platform is displayed independently for each City
and Autonomous Community, with an access URL for each of them
(“https://andalucia.ebiblio.es”, “https://madrid.ebiblio.es” or “https://canarias.ebiblio.es”,
etc.).

includes the document “eBiblio Platform.
SEVENTH: The “eBiblio” platform
Conditions of Use" accessible to users from all Cities and
Autonomous communities. This document has been prepared by the entity
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/56

LIBRANDA, who is mentioned as one of the managers of the platform:

“…By using the Service, you agree to enter into a contract that binds you with your library, and
with DISTRIBUIDORA DIGITAL DE LIBROS, S.A.U., (“Libranda”) (each individually a
“Manager” or collectively the “Managers”)…”.

Regarding the information on personal data protection and privacy, it includes
a link that leads to the "Privacy Policy" available on the web.

“Information about the type of information collected during your use of the eBiblio Service, the
reasons for which such information is collected and the use made of it is available
at the following link: "Privacy Policy", which you are responsible for reviewing and
acknowledge having read and understood your acceptance of these Terms…”.

The full content of the document “eBiblio Platform. Conditions of Use" is
declares reproduced in this act for evidentiary purposes. Some of this content is
incorporated into this act as Annex 2.

EIGHTH: The “eBiblio” platform includes the document “eBiblio Platform. Politics of
Privacy”, accessible to users from all Cities and Communities
Autonomous. This document, in its current version at the time it was formulated
the claim that has motivated the actions, is recorded by the entity
LIBRANDA, which identifies itself as one of the managers of the platform:

“Welcome to the platform for reading and lending electronic books (individually, the
"eBiblio Platform" or the "eBiblio Application", as the case may be, and collectively the "Service
eBiblio"), developed and operated jointly by Libranda/De Marque Inc. and the Ministry of
Culture and Sport together with the autonomous communities and cities of Spain, its library
(each individually a "Manager" or collectively the "Managers"), all
Managers are co-controllers of your personal data”.

For the exercise of rights and as contact information ("For more
information about our policies and practices…”) indicates a mailing address, a
email address and a telephone number, all belonging to
LIBRANDA.

This document describes how information collected, used, and disclosed is collected,
obtains about the users and the different measures so that they can contact.

It is structured with the following sections:

. Introduction
. Collection of personal information
. Sharing and Transferring Personal Information
. Right of veto and expulsion (exclusion)
. Right of access
. Storage and security
. Duration of retention of personal information collected
. External links and forms
. Contact Us
. Changes to this Privacy Policy

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/56

There are multiple references contained in the Privacy Policy to the collection of
personal data of users involved in the use of the "eBiblio" platform.
Here are some examples:

. “In this Privacy Policy, we describe how we collect, use and disclose information
information we obtain about the users of the eBiblio Platform”.
. “We collect the following personal information, which you provide to us directly and in a form
voluntary…”.
. “We use the information we collect for the following purposes…”.
. “…you consent to the collection, transfer, storage, use and control of your
information collected by the eBiblio Platform…”.

And the personal data that is collected is detailed, both directly from the user
(first name, last name, email address, browsing history, data from
location, etc.) and automatically (IP address, operating system, views of
pages and requests, date and time of access, links you click, origin of the
user, geolocation (Google Analytics), browser language).

The full content of this document “eBiblio Platform. Privacy Policy",
which is incorporated into this act as Annex 3, is hereby declared reproduced for the purposes
evidence.

NINTH: It is incorporated into the proceedings, provided by the entity LIBRANDA,
a new version of the document “eBiblio Platform. Privacy Policy” dated
06/23/2021.

Like the document reviewed in the Ninth Proven Fact, this Privacy Policy
Privacy of 06/23/2021 is prepared by the entity LIBRANDA (“Libranda se
reserves the right to change this privacy policy at any time"), and does not
contains no mention of the MCD. Although, in this case, she identifies herself as the person in charge
of the treatment, indicating the Local Administration as responsible for the treatment
responsible for the "Library" in which the user is registered:

“Welcome to the platform for reading and lending electronic books (individually, the
"Platform" or the "Application", as the case may be, and collectively the "Service"), developed and
operated by DISTRIBUIDORA DIGITAL DE LIBROS, S.A.U., ("Libranda"), as successful bidder
of the public service for the implementation and management of the Platform. This means that the
public administration determines for what reasons (i.e. the purposes) your data is processed,
as well as the resources (ie, the media) allocated to said processing. In
Consequently, Libranda is in charge of processing your personal data”.

For the exercise of rights and as contact information ("All questions and
comments about this privacy policy or requests related to the
must be sent to Libranda..."), even for the revocation of the
consent to the processing of personal data, a postal address, a
email address and a telephone number, all belonging to
LIBRANDA.

There are multiple references contained in this Privacy Policy to the collection and
use of personal data of users of "eBiblio" by LIBRANDA.
Here are some examples:
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/56

“This privacy policy summarizes (1) the types of personal information collected by
Libranda, (2) the reasons why Libranda collects personal information, (3) the way in which
that Libranda uses and protects the personal information, and (4) the circumstances in which the
personal information is shared with Libranda partners and third parties…”.

“As part of the operation of the Platform, Libranda will collect and/or process information
about you…".

“From time to time, you may provide further information to Libranda for purposes
to manage your account either with the Platform or for the management of your account with your
Library".

“We use the information collected to “Facilitate the loan of the documents included in
the platform”, that means:
. Allow you to use our Platform and the services offered on it…”.

The full content of this document “eBiblio Platform. Privacy Policy",
version of 06/23/2021, which is incorporated into this act as Annex 4, declares
reproduced for evidence purposes.

TENTH: On 10/21/2022, the procedure instructor accessed the
websites “madrid.ebiblio.es” and “canarias.ebiblio.es”. Both include a section
"Information" in the main menu which indicates the following:

“madrid.ebiblio.es”:
“eBiblio is a free online e-book lending service offered through
Spanish public libraries, is coordinated and promoted by the General Subdirectorate
of Library Coordination of the Ministry of Culture and Sports in collaboration with
the Library Services of the Autonomous Communities and Cities…”.

“canarias.ebiblio.es”:
“eBiblio is a free online e-book lending service offered through
Spanish public libraries, is coordinated and promoted by the General Subdirectorate
of Library Coordination of the Ministry of Culture and Sports in collaboration with
the Library Services of the Autonomous Communities and Cities…”.

The content of the documents "Terms and conditions" and "Policy of
Confidentiality" inserted in "madrid.ebiblio.es" and "canarias.ebiblio.es" is similar to
outlined in the previous Proven Facts.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/56

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures”.

Finally, the fourth additional provision "Procedure in relation to the
Powers attributed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection by other
laws" establishes that: "The provisions of Title VIII and its implementing regulations
will apply to the procedures that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data should be processed in the exercise of the powers attributed to it by
other laws”.

II

This case is related to the “eBiblio” Service. It is a service
free loan of electronic books (books, magazines and audiobooks) online
(allows reading both online and via download) powered by the MCD. He
The Ministry offers the Cities and Autonomous Communities (all, with the exception of
Basque Country) the platform in charge of managing the service, which was set up in
2014, and a free application for mobile devices.

The purpose of these actions has to do with the data processing that
entails the use of the “eBiblio” platform. Therefore, it does not reach the databases
of public library networks.

It is necessary, first of all, to specify the character under which the
entities involved, from the point of view of data protection
personal data, which has been revealed in the claim that motivates the
performances.

The MCD acquires the "eBiblio" service management platform and the app through
public sector contract and makes it available to Cities and Communities
Autonomous. In 2020, a call was made for the hiring and
implementation of a computerized management system or loan platform of
electronic books and other digital content in public libraries of the cities
and Autonomous Communities, to ensure the uninterrupted maintenance of the
"eBiblio" service in force at that time, as well as the implementation of
mobile apps. This call is promoted by the MCD, to which corresponds the
monitoring of the provision of the service, as managing body.

The entity LIBRANDA is the company that was awarded the contract
convened by the MCD, having formalized the corresponding contract for
both entities on 12/16/2020. By virtue of this contract, LIBRANDA
provides all the necessary resources for the internal management of the platform and is
responsible for its maintenance. Likewise, it undertakes not to exploit
the personal data of platform users.

In accordance with the foregoing, and as it appears from the documents that

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/56

govern the aforementioned contracting, the entity MCD intervenes under the condition of
responsible for the treatment of the data collected by the access and use of the
platform "eBiblio" by the users and LIBRANDA does it as manager
of the treatment

The figures of "responsible for the treatment" and "in charge of the treatment" are defined
in article 4 of the GDPR as follows:

. "Responsible for the treatment or responsible: the natural or legal person, public authority,
service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and means of the
treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the ends and means
of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the specific criteria for their appointment
they may be established by the law of the Union or of the Member States”.

. "In charge of the treatment or in charge: the natural or legal person, public authority,
service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the data controller
treatment".

Article 24 of the GDPR, referring to the "Liability of the person responsible for the
treatment”, states the following:

"1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment as well as
risks of varying probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to
In order to guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with this
Regulation. These measures will be reviewed and updated when necessary.
2. When they are provided in relation to the treatment activities, among the
measures mentioned in section 1 will include the application, by the person responsible for the
treatment, of the appropriate data protection policies…”.

Report 0064/2020 of the Legal Office of the AEPD has emphatically expressed
that "The GDPR has meant a paradigm shift when addressing the regulation of the
right to the protection of personal data, which is based on the
principle of "accountability" or "proactive responsibility" as indicated
repeatedly by the AEPD (Report 17/2019, among many others) and is included in the
Explanation of reasons for the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of
Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD)”.

The said report goes on to say the following:

“…the criteria on how to attribute the different roles remain the same (paragraph 11),
reiterates that these are functional concepts, which are intended to assign responsibilities
according to the real roles of the parties (paragraph 12), which implies that in most
of the assumptions must be addressed to the circumstances of the specific case (case by case)
based on their actual activities rather than the formal designation of an actor as
"responsible" or "in charge" (for example, in a contract), as well as autonomous concepts,
whose interpretation must be carried out under the European regulations on the protection of
personal data (section 13), and taking into account (section 24) that the need for a
factual assessment also means that the role of a controller is not
derives from the nature of an entity that is processing data but from its activities
concrete in a specific context…”.

Likewise, the legal report of the AEPD dated 11/20/2019, with internal reference
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/56

0007/2019, and STS 772/2020 (for all), analyze the legal figure of person in charge of
treatment from the perspective of the GDPR, which regulates this figure in its article 28.

The concepts of data controller and data processor are not formal, but
functional and must attend to the specific case.

The person responsible for the treatment is from the moment he decides the purposes and the
means of treatment, not losing such condition by the fact of leaving a certain margin
of action to the person in charge of the treatment or for not having access to the databases
of the manager

This is undoubtedly expressed in the Guidelines 07/2020 of the European Committee of
Data Protection (CEPD) on the concepts of data controller and
in charge in the GDPR:

“A controller is the one who determines the purposes and means of the processing.
treatment, that is, the why and how of the treatment. The data controller must
decide on both purposes and means. However, some more practical aspects of the
implementation ("non-essential media") can be left to the person in charge of
treatment. It is not necessary for the controller to actually have access to the data that is
they are trying to qualify themselves as responsible” (the translation is ours).

In the present case, it is clear that the MCD entity is responsible for the processing of
personal data that is caused by the use of the "eBiblio" platform, since,
as defined in article 4.7 of the GDPR, is the entity that determines the purpose and
means of the treatments carried out

The MCD not only decided, on its own initiative, the acquisition and start-up of the
"eBiblio" service management platform and application for mobile devices,
but also determines the purposes and means of treatment in a
autonomous, that is to say, apart from the Cities and Autonomous Communities that
later they use this online e-book lending service
"eBiblio" to offer it to users of public libraries in their respective networks.

Determining who decides the means and purposes of data processing is crucial to
establish who is responsible for compliance with data protection regulations
personal data, and in particular who should provide information to individuals
concerned, what their rights will be, who will be responsible in case of
breach of personal data security, etc.

The condition of person in charge of the treatment obliges, likewise, to comply with the
provided in the transcribed article 24 of the RGPD and, especially, that related to the
establishment of personal data protection policies and effective control
and continued of the "appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to guarantee and
be able to demonstrate that the processing is in accordance with this Regulation”, among
which are those provided in article 28 of the GDPR in relation to the
Data processors acting in the name and on behalf of the data controller.

However, the MCD is not only responsible for the treatment as a concept
functional, but also as a public entity that acts in the exercise of
powers conferred on it by law. We must highlight the peculiar
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/56

situation of Public Administrations, where the data controller is
that administrative body that has been attributed the powers by a norm
legal, for the exercise of which it is necessary to carry out data processing of a
staff. If the competence to carry out a certain activity is not held,
nor is it available to carry out the treatments that would derive from it. The
competence will therefore determine the legitimacy to carry out the treatment. And all
This is based on the premise that, compared to what happens in the private sphere, in the
that everything that is not prohibited can be done, the Public Administrations only
they can undertake what the legal system allows them, with full submission
to the Law and the Law (articles 9.1 and 103.1 of the Spanish Constitution).

If the determination of the ends and means by the MCD does not agree with the
competence attributed to him, he would be acting as responsible without being so and the
data processing carried out would be illegal.

In this case, the MCD is responsible for the management and promotion of the platform
"eBiblio", as deduced from the provisions of Royal Decree 509/2020, of 5
May, which approves the basic organic structure of the Ministry of Culture and
Sport, which includes among its functions the promotion and improvement of libraries, the
coordination and promotion of library cooperation and the supply of services
technicians and advice on library matters, in addition to obtaining,
exploitation and use of library data; all of them developed through
the General Directorate of Books and Reading Promotion, Sub-directorate General of
Library Coordination (article 3 of Royal Decree 509/2020).

On the other hand, the existence of a data processor depends on a decision
adopted by the person responsible for the treatment, which he may decide to carry out himself
certain processing operations or hire all or part of the
treatment with a manager.

The essence of the function of the person in charge of the treatment is that the personal data
are processed in the name and on behalf of the data controller. In practice,
it is the person in charge who determines the purpose and the means, at least the essential ones,
while the person in charge of the treatment has the function of providing services to the
data controllers. In other words, “acting in the name and on behalf of
of the person in charge of the treatment” means that the person in charge of the treatment is aware of the
serving the interest of the controller in carrying out a task
specific and, therefore, follows the instructions established by it, at least in
regarding the purpose and the essential means of the treatment entrusted.

The person responsible for the treatment is the one who has the obligation to guarantee the application
of data protection regulations and the protection of the rights of
interested parties, as well as being able to prove it (articles 5.2, 24, 28 and 32 of the GDPR).
The control of compliance with the law extends throughout the treatment,
From the beginning to the end. The data controller must act, in
any case, in a diligent, conscious, committed and active way.

This mandate of the legislator is independent of the fact that the treatment is carried out
directly the person in charge of the treatment or to carry it out using a
treatment manager.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/56

In addition, the treatment physically carried out by a person in charge of treatment by
account of the person responsible for the treatment belongs to the sphere of action of the latter
last, in the same way as if he did it directly himself. The person in charge of
Treatment, in the case examined, is an extension of the person responsible for the
treatment.

In light of the principle of proactive responsibility (art 5.2 GDPR), the person responsible for the
treatment must be able to demonstrate that it has taken into account all the elements
provided for in the GDPR.

The data controller should take into account whether the data processor
provides adequate documentation that demonstrates such compliance, privacy policies,
privacy protection, file management policies, privacy policies
information security, external audit reports, certifications,
management of the exercise of rights, etc.

Likewise, before outsourcing a treatment and in order to avoid possible violations
rights and freedoms of those affected, the data controller must
enter into a contract, other legal act or binding agreement with the other entity that
establish clear and precise obligations regarding data protection.

The person in charge of the treatment can only carry out treatments on the instructions
documented data of the controller, unless required to do so by law
of the Union or of a Member State, which is not the case. In this regard, Article 29
of the GDPR refers to the "Treatment under the authority of the person in charge or of the person in charge
of the treatment” in the following terms:

"The person in charge of the treatment and any person acting under the authority of the person in charge
or the person in charge and has access to personal data may only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless they are obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the
Union or of the Member States”.

The person in charge of the treatment also has the obligation to collaborate with the
responsible for guaranteeing the rights of the interested parties and fulfilling the obligations
of the person responsible for the treatment in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 28 of the
GDPR (and related).

Therefore, the data controller must establish clear modalities for
said assistance and give precise instructions to the person in charge of the treatment on how
comply with them adequately and document it previously through a contract or
either in another (binding) agreement and verify at all times the development of the
contract compliance in the manner established therein.

Only the person in charge of the treatment will be fully responsible when it is
entirely responsible for the damages caused in terms of the rights and
freedoms of the affected parties.

By establishing the responsibility of the person in charge of the treatment in the commission of
infringements of the GDPR, its article 28.10 also meets the criterion of determining
of the purposes and means of processing. Pursuant to this article, if the manager
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/56

determines the purposes and means of treatment will be considered responsible for it:

“10. Without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84, if a data processor
infringes this Regulation when determining the purposes and means of processing, it will be
considered responsible for the treatment with respect to said treatment”.

In the present case, the correct legal classification according to the GDPR of the entity
LIBRANDA, to which the MCD entrusted the implementation of the "eBiblio" platform, is
as the person in charge of the treatment, since it acts fully in the name and on behalf of
of the MCD, for the benefit of this Ministry, which is the entity responsible for
treatment for all purposes in terms of data protection.

The arguments presented are considered sufficient to answer the questions
alleged by the MCD entity in its response to the claim transfer process.

The aforementioned entity understands that it is not responsible for the treatment of the data of the
users of the service, since it does not have said data, and points out that from the
Ministry does not require any personal data from said users and, therefore, does not
stores information subject to the GDPR on its servers.

However, the truth is that the Ministry is the entity that promotes and coordinates the
"eBiblio" service management platform, and the entity that acquires said platform
through an open procedure, in order to award it to a bidder who,
complying with the requirements of the Technical Specification Sheets and the Sheet of
Particular Administrative Clauses set by the MCD itself, provide that
e-book and content license management business platform
digital and online loans.

It is the MCD who decides to implement the computerized loan management system
of electronic books, which includes, as stated in the Specification Sheet
Techniques, “a set of computer applications, as well as the resources of
necessary hardware and communications, capable of managing hosting and
access to electronic content, as well as the temporary loan thereof”; and
“a statistics generation module that measures the activity of the platform:
acquisitions by buyer, types of reading access, loans by title, author,
library, editorial, materials, reservations and downloads. You must have a user for
each Autonomous Community and a global one, assigned to the managing body, which may
consult all the statistics globally and/or by Autonomous Communities”.

The MCD entity is also its managing body, through the Sub-Directorate
Library Coordination General; and the entity that decides to hire the
implementation of the system with a third party, LIBRANDA, which undertakes to "provide
all the necessary resources to fulfill the described functional requirements”
detailed in the cited document.

On the other hand, the information offered to users in the Privacy Policy
inserted accessible on the platform itself details the personal data that is
collected as a result of the use of the platform, both directly from the user
(first name, last name, email address, etc.) as automatically
(IP address, operating system, page views and requests, date and time of
access, links clicked, user origin, geolocation (Google
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/56

Analytics), browser language); all of them collected for related purposes
with the provision of the service and for statistical, research and analysis purposes
arranged by the MCD.

Ultimately, it is the MCD who determines the data processing operations
personal to be carried out. It is the same as saying that the MCD is the entity
which determines why (purpose) and how (means) personal data is processed
to achieve the intended purpose.

Regarding the "means of treatment", the Directives 07/2020 of the European Committee
of Data Protection (CEPD) on the concepts of data controller and
in charge of the GDPR, already cited, state the following:

As regards the determination of the means, a distinction can be made between
essential and non-essential media. "Essential media" are traditionally and inherently
reserved for the data controller. While non-essential media also
can be determined by the manager, the essential means must be determined by
the data controller. "Essential media" means media that are closely
related to the purpose and scope of the treatment, such as the type of personal data that
are processed ("what data will be processed?"), the duration of the treatment ("for how long will
will they treat?"), categories of recipients ("who will have access to them?"), and categories
of data subjects ("whose personal data is being processed"). Along with the purpose of
treatment, the essential means are also closely related to the issue
Whether the processing is lawful, necessary and proportionate. "Non-essential media" refers to
to more practical aspects of the application, such as choosing a particular type of
software or detailed security measures that can be left to the developer.
treatment for you to decide” (the translation is ours).

There is no doubt about the status of controller of the MCD,
that is not affected by the fact that it agrees with another entity (the successful bidder
contracting) the implementation of the system according to your instructions.

The status of data controller must be attributed to the MCD, even if
that you do not access the data. The regulation does not provide whether the data controller,
to be, access or not to the data submitted to treatment. And this is so because the
GDPR already establishes as sufficient to grant this condition the fact that the
intervening entity determines the purposes and means of treatment, so that no
It is possible to add any other requirement or condition that said standard does not provide and, less
Still, consider that other requirement, access or not to personal data, as
preponderant to the point of annulling what the norm does establish.

The most accurate conclusion leads to the understanding that the entity that decides the purposes and
means of treatment is responsible regardless of whether that entity accesses or
no to the personal data processed. This is also the position defended by the
European Committee for Data Protection in Directives 07/2020, on the
concepts of controller and person in charge in the GDPR, in which
indicates:

“42. It is not necessary for the controller to actually have access to the data
that are being processed. Anyone who outsources a processing activity and, in doing so, has
a determining influence on the purpose and (essential) means of processing (e.g.
For example, by adjusting the parameters of a service in such a way as to influence whose data
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/56

personal data will be treated), you must be considered responsible even though you will never have
real access to the data” (the translation is ours).

On the other hand, it so happens that in this case there is no doubt as to
the status of data processor that must be attributed to the entity
winning bidder, LIBRANDA, which is a separate and independent entity from
responsible acting in the name and on behalf of the MCD, for the benefit of this
Ministry and according to its instructions.

The actions have not revealed that LIBRANDA performs, in its own right,
benefit, processing of personal data of users of the "eBiblio" platform,
that uses the data for its own uses, which, if it occurs, would grant it the status
responsible for the treatment, according to the provisions of the aforementioned article 28.10 of the
GDPR.

As indicated, all data processing indicated in the Privacy Policy
Privacy have to do with the purpose of "facilitating the loan of documents
included in the platform" and with the services offered by the platform (such as the
newsletter subscription). Even treatments for statistical purposes were decided
by the MCD.

These and no others are the circumstances that make up the concepts of responsible and
person in charge of the treatment and the criteria for the distribution of their respective functions,
which have not changed with the approval of the GDPR.

The previous arguments, which were already exposed in the opening agreement of the
present procedure, were not taken into account by MCD when formulating its
allegations to said agreement, in which he continues to deny his status as responsible
of the treatment, although for reasons other than those indicated in your response to the procedure
transfer of the claim, which are summarized in the Second Background.

If in that answer he basically argued that the "eBiblio" platform was not
entails the processing of personal data, understanding that it is not
requires the user any personal data to use the service, subsequently, in
its allegations at the opening of the procedure, alleges that it is not the entity
responsible for the treatment of the data collected by the access and use of the
platform, indicating that said responsibility is assumed by the Cities and
Autonomous Communities, which manage said service in a unique and exclusive way.

However, it is proven that the platform is not only driven by the
Ministry, but is also managed by this entity, for which it uses a
external service provider company, such as LIBRANDA.

It has already been said, and it is highlighted in the Proven Facts, that the platform
involves the collection and use of personal data. This is recognized in the Policy
of Privacy inserted in "eBiblio", without having to confuse the fact that this
Privacy Policy refers to the processing of personal data carried out
LIBRANDA, since this entity acts on behalf of the MCD. In fact, the
information contained in the Privacy Policy, indicating LIBRANDA as
responsible for these treatments, is a determining anomaly of infringement, as
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/56

will be indicated in the Fundamentals of Law that follow.

The foregoing means that if LIBRANDA, on the one hand, acts on behalf of the
aforementioned Ministry and, on the other hand, processes personal data for reasons of
platform management, the conclusion is that the MCD entity is responsible for
those data processing. For this reason, nothing changes the fact announced in the
allegations in relation to the possibility that the MCD does not access the back office of
“eBiblio”, if LIBRANDA does it on your behalf.

On the other hand, the processing of personal data that
requires the management of the platform with those treatments carried out by the
Autonomous Communities for the management of their respective public networks of
public libraries.

Subsequently, in the allegations to the resolution proposal, the entity MCD
once again modifies its previous approaches, denying its status as
responsible for the treatment considering that it establishes the purposes of the treatment, but
not the essential means thereof. Specify the aforementioned entity that does not establish what
types of data will be processed, what will be the duration of the treatment or who will have access
to those data; and defends this conclusion pointing out that the documents "Conditions
of Use" and "Privacy Policy", which indicate the personal data that is
collected from users (essential means), have not been prepared with their
stake.

When raising this conclusion, the aforementioned Ministry does not take into account the arguments
indicated above to substantiate their status as responsible for the
treatment, regardless of whether the aforementioned documents have been prepared
by the entity LIBRANDA, which always acts in the name and on behalf of the MCD, in such
so that everything acted by LIBRANDA must be considered, for all purposes,
as if it were done directly by the MCD. Furthermore, it cannot be accepted that the MCD
serve as an irregularity that determines an infringement, such as the fact of having
allowed a third party to develop the Privacy Policy as if the
responsible for the treatment in question, to deny that this condition corresponds to the
own MCD, responsible, owner and managing body of the eBiblio platform.

This approach included in the allegations to the proposal prepared by the
Ministry is, on the other hand, contradictory with the recognition that it makes in the
same statement of allegations, when he admits that it corresponds to the person responsible for the
processing the obligation to provide data subjects with information regarding
data protection, and must prevent the Privacy Policy from being drafted by the
winning company.

Finally, it should be added that what the MCD indicated in its allegations is not true.
at the opening of the procedure, when it alleges that on the web pages of the service
"eBiblio" in the respective territories establish that they are the Communities
Autonomous those responsible for personal data. As has been proven, in
all the respective websites the information offered in terms of protection
of data are the documents "Terms of use" and "Privacy Policy" prepared
by LIBRANDA, with details on the responsibility for the collection and use
of the personal data of users that are outlined in the Proven Facts.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/56

On the other hand, the entity MCD warned in its allegations to the opening of the
procedure that is preparing a document that serves as a basis for the
Autonomous Communities sign the appropriate contract with the winning company,
but without clarifying if what he intends is to transfer all the management of the platform
"eBiblio" to the Autonomous Communities or establish co-responsibility in the
data treatment.

In the subsequent allegations, those presented on the occasion of the proposal for
resolution, MCD informs of some modifications that it will include in its next
contracts, contemplating the possibility that data processing is carried out
carried out under the joint responsibility of the MCD itself and the Communities
Autonomous (co-responsibility), although it does not provide sufficient details for
improvements listed can be assessed.

In any case, that is not the situation analyzed in this proceeding, which
It must be resolved, obviously, with the proven facts and factual circumstances.

II

Article 28 of the GDPR, "In charge of the treatment", in its section 3, establishes:

"3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act in accordance with the
Law of the Union or of the Member States, which binds the person in charge with respect to the
responsible and establishes the object, duration, nature and purpose of the treatment, the
type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the obligations and rights of the
responsible. Said contract or legal act shall stipulate, in particular, that the person in charge:

a) will process personal data only following documented instructions from the
responsible, including with respect to transfers of personal data to a third country or
an international organization, unless it is obliged to do so under Union law
or of the Member States that applies to the person in charge; in such a case, the person in charge will inform the
responsible for that legal requirement prior to treatment, unless such Law prohibits it by
important reasons of public interest;
b) will guarantee that the persons authorized to process personal data have
committed to respect confidentiality or are subject to an obligation of
confidentiality of a statutory nature;
c) take all necessary measures in accordance with article 32;
d) will respect the conditions indicated in sections 2 and 4 to resort to another person in charge of the
treatment;
e) will assist the controller, taking into account the nature of the treatment, through measures
appropriate technical and organizational, whenever possible, so that it can comply with
their obligation to respond to requests that have as their object the exercise of rights
of the interested parties established in Chapter III;
f) will help the controller to ensure compliance with the obligations established in the
articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the treatment and the information to
disposition of the manager;
g) at the choice of the controller, will delete or return all personal data once
ends the provision of treatment services, and will delete existing copies unless
where the retention of personal data is required under Union law or
Member States;
h) will make available to the person in charge all the information necessary to demonstrate the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/56

compliance with the obligations established in this article, as well as to allow and
contribute to the performance of audits, including inspections, by the controller or
another auditor authorized by said person in charge.

In relation to the provisions of letter h) of the first paragraph, the person in charge shall inform
immediately to the controller if, in their opinion, an instruction violates this
Regulations or other provisions on data protection of the Union or of the
Member states".

These specific obligations may be supervised by the enforcement authorities.
data protection, without prejudice to the control that may be carried out in relation to
with compliance with the Regulation or the LOPDGDD by the person responsible for the
treatment.

In accordance with the provisions of article 28 GDPR, the person in charge and the person in charge
of data processing must regulate the processing of data in a contract or act
legal linking the person in charge with respect to the person in charge; that contract or legal act
must establish the object, duration, nature and purpose of the treatment, the
type of personal data and categories of interested parties, the obligations and rights of the
responsible etc

And it is the person responsible for the treatment, in this case the MCD, who is obliged to
establishment of the “appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to
guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with the present
Regulations", including those provided in article 28 of the GDPR in relation to the
processors (article 24 of the GDPR).

In this case, there is no record that the MCD has ordered the formalization of a
order of treatment or legal act that regulates access to the personal data of
users of "eBiblio" by LIBRANDA, containing all the
stipulations required in the aforementioned article 28.3 of the GDPR, which would have contributed
to the correct definition of the roles under which the aforementioned entities intervene.

Both entities signed a contract to formalize the award of the
contract called, but neither this contract nor the documents or Specifications that govern the
contract contain the stipulations indicated, beyond a reference
generic to the obligation of the winning bidder LIBRANDA to submit to the regulations
and the European Union regarding the protection of personal data, and a
mere mention of the obligations not to use for oneself or provide third parties with the
personal data, confidentiality and security, as well as the purpose
of the treatment.

This non-compliance supposes the commission of an offense typified in section 4.a)
of article 83 of the GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the
imposition of administrative fines" provides the following:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/56

43;”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD establishes in its article 71 that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a substantial infringement
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
(…)
k) Entrust data processing to a third party without the prior formalization of a contract or
another written legal act with the content required by article 28.3 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679.
(…)”.

In this case, the MCD has violated article 28.3 of the GDPR, motivated by the
Absence of treatment contract with the entity LIBRANDA.

IV.

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides the following:

"2) "processing": any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation, deletion or
destruction".

In accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data through
of the "eBiblio" platform constitutes data processing, with respect to which the
responsible for the treatment, in this case the MCD entity, must comply with the
principle of transparency, established in article 5.1 of the GDPR, according to which the
personal data will be "treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to
the interested party (lawfulness, loyalty and transparency)”; and developed in Chapter III,
Section 1 of the same Regulation (articles 12 and following).

Article 12.1 of the GDPR establishes the obligation of the data controller
take the appropriate measures to "provide the interested party with all the information indicated in
articles 13 and 14, as well as any communication pursuant to articles 15 to
22 and 34 regarding the treatment, in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easy way.
access, in clear and simple language, in particular any information addressed to
child".

When personal data is collected directly from the interested party, the information
It must be provided at the same time that data collection takes place. He
Article 13 of the GDPR details this information in the following terms:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/56

"1. When personal data relating to him or her is obtained from an interested party, the person responsible for the
treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide you with all the information indicated
next:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, their representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection officer, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment for which the personal data are intended and the legal basis of the
treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests of the
responsible or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, if any;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third country or
international organization and the existence or absence of a decision adequacy of the
Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49,
paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to adequate or appropriate guarantees and means
to obtain a copy of these or the fact that they have been provided.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained, the following
information necessary to guarantee fair and transparent data processing:
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when this is not possible, the
criteria used to determine this term;
b) the existence of the right to request access to the data from the data controller
personal information relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its
treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to data portability;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9,
paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time,
without this affecting the legality of the treatment based on the consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a control authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a requirement
necessary to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide the data
personal and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, referred to in the
Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information about the logic
applied, as well as the importance and expected consequences of said treatment for the
interested.

3. When the controller plans the subsequent processing of personal data
for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, will provide the interested party, with
prior to said further processing, information about that other purpose and any information
relevant additional pursuant to paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
that the interested party already has the information”.

In accordance with these regulations, the duty to inform corresponds to the person responsible for the
processing of personal data.

In this case, the MCD entity has not complied with this obligation to inform the
users of the "eBiblio" platform, having allowed the only information in
matter of protection of personal data is provided by the entity in charge of the
treatment, LIBRANDA.

The information is provided through the documents "Terms of use" and "Policy of
Privacy", available on the platform, which have been prepared as their own by

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/56

LIBRANDA, as if it were the owner of the website, and not by the responsible Ministry.

There is multiple information contained in those documents that account for
of this circumstance.

This can be seen in the document "Terms of use" when the user is indicated
that “By using this service, you agree to enter into a contract that binds you to
its library and with Distribuidora… (Libranda)” or that “it acknowledges that Libranda/De
Marque Inc. is the owner of: (a) the eBiblio Service… (b) any tools,
computer hardware and software used to offer the Service”; or when it's done
reference to “the eBiblio Services offered by Libranda/De Marque”. Also
LIBRANDA provides its contact information in the Privacy Policy for the exercise
of rights, despite the fact that there is no stipulation in this regard in the contract
formalized by said entity and the MCD.

This single fact, which is not controversial and has been recognized by the entity itself
LIBRANDA, supposes a breach of what is established in the precepts before
cited by the MCD entity, which justifies the declaration of the infringement
correspondent.

In addition, those documents contain several deficiencies, in relation to the
minimum content of the information that must be provided to the interested parties according to the
article 13 of the GDPR.

a) The information on the identity of the person in charge, which has already been dealt with in
the previous Fundamentals of Law, is deficient and confusing; and their
contact details (those of the entity in charge of the treatment are indicated and not those of the
MCD).

In the version of the Privacy Policy provided by the complaining party, the
as "co-controllers" the Ministry, the Cities and Autonomous Communities,
Libranda/De Marquee Inc. and libraries, but without defining the scope of that
supposed co-responsibility and without sufficiently specifying the roles under which
All these entities are involved.

In the new version of this Policy of June 2021, contributed to the proceedings by
LIBRANDA, this deficiency is not corrected. In this new version, information about
the responsible entity is resolved with a generic reference to the "Administration
Public” to later add that “The local administration of your library… is
the person responsible for the processing of your personal data”. On the other hand, even if
specifies the condition of LIBRANDA as data processor, it is also
informs that “This privacy policy summarizes (1) the types of personal information
collected by Libranda, (2) the reasons why Libranda collects information
information, (3) how Libranda uses and protects personal information, and (4)
the circumstances in which personal information is shared with partners of
Libranda and third parties, when the applicable laws require or allow it”.
   
b) The contact details of the data protection officer are not provided.

c) The legal basis of the treatment is not clear.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/56

The "Terms of Use" document refers to the conclusion of a contract that
commits the user to his library and LIBRANDA; while in politics
of Privacy provided by the complaining party, the user is informed that "By using the
eBiblio platform, as well as all other services available on said
eBiblio Platform, you accept and consent that your information, including the
personal information, is handled in the manner described in this Privacy Policy”.
On the other hand, the new version of the Privacy Policy informs about the
consent as the legal basis for data processing (“The legal basis that
allows the processing of your data by Libranda is the consent").

d) In the "Storage and Security" section of the Privacy Policy provided by
the complaining party is informed that personal data is stored on servers
"generally" located in Europe, although it is noted that "the data collected or
shared with third parties, including, but not limited to, Google Analytics and, in some cases,
your library, may be stored on servers located outside of Europe,
especially in the United States or Canada.”

The data that could be stored on servers outside Europe are those
automatically collected through the use of Google Analytics cookies:
“collects various types of information regarding your browsing on the Platform
(for example, the pages you browse, the date and time you access those
pages, the links you click). Google Analytics also collects, among
other information, the type of operating system on your device, the language set
for your browser, the name of your Internet service provider or your location
geographic. The data collected, together with your anonymous IP address, is
stored by Google on servers located in Canada, but in certain cases
can be transferred to the United States. Google uses this information with the
sole purpose of generating statistics and reports on browsing on the
eBiblio platform. These elements allow us to improve the eBiblio Platform by
better understand the behavior of Users”.

According to the Section “Sharing and transferring personal information”, the transfer
international reporting is based on consent: “Consent for the
international transfer of information. By checking the "I Accept" button, you agree
the collection, transfer, storage, use and control of your information
collected by the eBiblio Platform, in accordance with the conditions and for the purposes
described in this section of the privacy policy”.

However, the existence or absence of a
adequacy decision of the Commission, or on adequate or appropriate guarantees
and the means to obtain a copy of these or the fact that they have been lent, nor
about the possible risks for the interested party.

This matter has been rectified in the current Privacy Policy, in which
points out the following:

The information obtained through cookies
When using the Platform, certain information may be collected (such as interactions with the
Platform or any other information described below) through session cookies
own and Google Analytics cookies. We also inform you that the transfer
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/56

international data transfer to Google is protected by the formalization of contractual clauses
type approved by the European Commission. For more information, see our Privacy Policy
Cookies".

e) Regarding the conservation of the data, a period of six years was established without
justify the reasons for this deadline, although this has now been modified
establishing that personal information may be retained when necessary
to comply with applicable laws or to prevent any infringement; to resolve
disputes; and to enforce this privacy policy. Added to be removed
information when it is not needed.

f) The information on the rights of the interested party is deficient. I only know
mentions the possibility of requesting access to or deletion of personal data,
adding the right of rectification in the Privacy Policy updated in
June 2021; and before the person in charge of the treatment.

g) The possibility of filing a claim with the AEPD was not indicated in the
Privacy Policy provided by the claimant.

It is interesting to note that MCD, in its pleadings at the opening of the
procedure, has not formulated any consideration on the above points,
except for the question related to the entity responsible for the treatment, already analyzed in the
Fundamentals of law precedents.

Therefore, a breach of the provisions of article 13 of the GDPR is verified,
which supposes the commission of an infraction typified in article 83.5.b) of the same
Regulation, which under the heading "General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative" provides the following:

Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with section
2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company,
of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22;(…)”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 74 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Article 74. Offenses considered minor.
The remaining infractions of a merely
of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right to
information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by articles 13 and 14 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

V

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR in its section 7 establishes:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/56

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under article 58,
paragraph 2, each Member State may lay down rules on whether and to what extent
measure, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established in
that Member State”.

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the autonomous communities
and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit any of
the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the authority of
data protection that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning them with
warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that should be adopted so that
cease the conduct or correct the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous section, the data protection authority
It will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime that results from
application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives, and the
existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that had not been
properly attended, the resolution in which the sanction is imposed will include a
reprimand with the name of the responsible position and the publication will be ordered in the
Official State or regional Gazette that corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that fall
in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the preceding sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of the
autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under the protection of
this article.

(…)”.

In the case at hand, it is found that the responsible entity, that is, the
MCD, has not formalized a commission contract with the service provider
of treatment or other legal act that regulates access to personal data by
part of the latter entity, as well as for the breach of the principle of
transparency on the part of the aforementioned Ministry, violating the provisions of articles
28.3 and 13 of the GDPR.

In accordance with the provisions of article 77 of the LOPDGDD, it is proposed
penalize such conduct with a warning sanction.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/56

Likewise, when the managers or managers listed in section 1 of the
cited article 77 of the LOPDGDD committed any of the offenses to which
referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this Organic Law, it is contemplated that the resolution
issued may require the entity in question to establish the
measures that should be adopted to stop the infringing conduct, correct the
effects of the infraction that had been committed and adapts its action to the
requirements contemplated in articles 28 and 13 of the GDPR, with the scope expressed
in the previous Fundamentals of Law; as well as the contribution to this Agency of
the means accrediting compliance with what is required.

Specifically, MCD must formalize, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 28.3 of the GDPR, the relationship that links said Ministry with LIBRANDA in the
implementation and maintenance of the “eBiblio” service; and establish a new Policy
of Privacy, available to all users of the aforementioned platform, which gives
response to the objections raised in this proceeding.

When preparing this new Privacy Policy, special attention should be paid to the
following questions:

a) The correct identification of the entity responsible for data processing
personal information that the use of the service entails.

In the event that, in the future, it is resolved that there are data treatments
personal joint ventures with other entities (Cities and Autonomous Communities or
managers of public library networks), the provisions of the
Article 26 "Joint controllers" of the GDPR.

b) The detail of the different data processing that is carried out, the legal bases
rights that legitimize them and their purposes.

In the event that the processing of personal data in question is covered by
the user's consent, it should be noted that this consent is
understood as a clear affirmative act that reflects a manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal of the interested party to accept the data processing
of a personal nature that concern him, provided with sufficient guarantees to
certify that the interested party is aware of the fact that he gives his consent and of
the extent to which it does. And must be given for all processing activities
carried out for the same purpose or purposes, so that, when the treatment has
various purposes, consent must be given for all of them in a specific and
unequivocally, without the provision of the service being subject to the fact that the affected party
consent to the processing of your personal data for purposes that do not keep
connection with the development or control of said service. In this regard, it is interesting
emphasize that the legality of the treatment requires that the interested party be informed about the
purposes for which the data is intended (informed consent).

c) The information on the protection of personal data inserted in the web
"eBiblio", in all its territorial areas, informs the interested parties about the
possibility of carrying out international data transfers (“The information that
we collect is stored on servers…usually located in Europe…”; "…in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/56

some cases… may be stored on servers located outside of Europe,
especially in the United States or Canada"), on the basis of consent
of the interested party (“Consent for the international transfer of information…”),
although in relation to Google Analytics it is also indicated in another section that "When
voluntarily provide us with your personal information, you agree to your
collection, use and disclosure…”.

According to the information that has been analyzed in these proceedings, the
data that could be stored on servers outside of Europe are those
automatically collected through the use of Google Analytics cookies.

On the other hand, in the version of the Privacy Policy dated June 2021, it is
indicates that “…certain information may be collected… through… cookies from
Google Analytics" and that "the international transfer of data to Google is covered by
in the formalization of the standard contractual clauses approved by the Commission
European”.

In relation to this issue, it must be clearly reported whether or not
international transfers of personal data and, if so, must
provide users of "eBiblio" with all the details established in section f)
of article 13.1 of the GDPR ("f) where appropriate, the intention of the person responsible for transferring
personal data to a third country or international organization and the existence or
absence of an adequacy decision from the Commission, or, in the case of
transfers indicated in article 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, paragraph
second, reference to the adequate or appropriate guarantees and the means to
obtain a copy of these or the fact that they have been lent").

This mandatory information is related to the established protection system
for international transfers in articles 44 and following of the GDPR.

Said article 44 establishes a general principle, according to which the data only
They may be exported if, on the one hand, the treatment object of the transfer is lawful
and complies with the provisions of the GDPR and, on the other, if it complies with the conditions that
they are established in Chapter V of the same legal text (articles 44 to 50).

Article 45 of the GDPR establishes, as a main rule, that a
transfer of personal data if the country, territory or international organization
addressee guarantees an adequate level of protection recognized by a decision of
adequacy dictated by the European Commission.

In the absence of said adequacy decision, article 46 of the GDPR authorizes
enter into transfers if the person in charge or in charge has offered guarantees
appropriate, materialized through the instruments referred to in the same
article.

Among the guarantees that data controllers can offer according to
with the provisions of this article 46 of the GDPR include the subscription of the clauses
contractual model approved by the European Commission. However, it must be taken into
Note that the CJEU has declared that there are situations in which these clauses
do not constitute a sufficient means to guarantee effective data protection

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/56

personal transferred to a third country and may require the adoption of measures
complementary.

The following scenario contemplated by the GDPR, in the absence of a decision of
adequacy and adequate guarantees, is to allow the transfers to be carried out
if any of the conditions stated in article 49.1 is met. of the GDPR.

If none of the circumstances provided for in the articles that
above, the carrying out of international transfers of personal data does not
would be covered, and in that case the MCD should consider discontinuing the use of
Google Analytics cookies.

Lastly, it is noted that failure to meet the requirements of this body may
be considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the
GDPR, classified as an infringement in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such
conduct the opening of a subsequent disciplinary administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND SPORT, with NIF
S2800239B, for the infringement of articles 28.3 and 13 of the GDPR, typified in the
Articles 83.4.a) and 83.5.b) of the same Regulation, and classified as serious and minor in
articles 73.k) and 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, respectively, a sanction of
warning.

SECOND: REQUEST the entity MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND SPORT to
that, within a period of six months, counted from the notification of this
resolution, adapt its action to the personal data protection regulations, with
the scope expressed in the Foundation of Law V, and justify before this Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency the attention of this requirement. In the text
of the resolution establishes what have been the infractions committed and the facts
that have given rise to the violation of the data protection regulations, of which
clearly infers what are the measures to be adopted, notwithstanding that the type of
specific procedures, mechanisms or instruments to implement them
corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is the person responsible for the treatment who
He fully knows his organization and has to decide, based on the responsibility
proactive and risk approach, how to comply with the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND
SPORT.

ROOM:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/56

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/56

APPENDIX 1

SPECIFICATION SHEET

(…).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/56

APPENDIX 2

“EBIBLIO PLATFORM. TERMS OF USE"

“…By using the Service, you agree to enter into a contract that binds you with your library, and
with DISTRIBUIDORA DIGITAL DE LIBROS, S.A.U., ("Libranda") (each individually a
"Manager" or collectively the "Managers"), under the conditions established in these
Terms, which you acknowledge that you have read and understood and which bind you legally and
contractually as a user...

If you do not agree to these Terms, please do not register for or use the Service…

To access the Service, you must have an account in good standing with one of the libraries
participants or create an account directly on the Service, in cases where this option
is available…

Managers care about protecting your personal information and respecting your
privacy. Information about the type of information collected during your use of the Service
eBiblio, the reasons for which said information is collected and the use made of it is
available at the following link: "Privacy Policy", which you are responsible for reviewing
and acknowledge having read and understood your acceptance of these Terms…

your content
The Administrators may permit, at their sole discretion, the downloading and posting of
comments and observations, through a book club or otherwise, as well as images,
text or other content submitted by you through the eBiblio Service, including your history of
reading (collectively, "Your Content"). By submitting your content, you grant Managers a
irrevocable, perpetual, non-exclusive, transferable, free license to copy, modify,
display or use your content.
You represent and warrant to Libranda/De Marque that: (a) you are the owner of Your
content or have the written permission of the copyright owner to make available
provision of Your Content on or through the eBiblio Service; (b) Its content is accurate and
correct; (c) you have the right to grant the license mentioned above to the
managers; and (d) the reproduction, display, distribution, use and other exploitation of Your Content.
by the Managers and their eBiblios service providers, members, users and
licensees, as permitted by the aforementioned license, will not infringe the
rights of third parties and will not infringe any laws, in particular copyright laws and
protection of intellectual property...

Libranda/De Marque or Third Party Content
You are informed and acknowledge that Libranda/De Marque Inc. is the owner of: (a) the Service
eBiblio, including any text, image, sound, video, model, plan, map, image, icon,
software, design, applications, data, graphic presentations, trademarks, logos and
slogans created or used by Libranda/De Marque and to which it owns copyright
intellectual property; (b) any tools, computer hardware and software used to
offer the Service; and (c) graphic design, user interface, and appearance of the eBiblio Service.
Some texts, photos, sounds, videos, models, plans, maps, images, icons, software,
designs, applications, data, graphic presentations, trademarks, logos and slogans
may be owned by third parties. In all cases, you must not use, reproduce or
save them without the prior written consent of Libranda/De Marque or such
third parties…

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/56

Service Links
The eBiblio Service may allow you to connect or log in to use the features
offered by applications, services or websites operated by third parties and which are not owned
nor are they controlled by an Administrator (collectively, the "Third Party Applications").
We provide these links only as a convenience to you, and you access them at your
own risk. You may also need to abide by some provisions and terms of use
applicable when you use or purchase, as the case may be, certain products or services
eBiblio related to the eBiblio Service or third-party applications…

Contact
All questions about the eBiblio Service or the eBiblios Services offered by
Libranda/De Marque or managers can contact: (email address and
Libranda mailing address).

Last update: January 15, 2019”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/56

ANNEX 3

“EBIBLIO PLATFORM. PRIVACY POLICY"

Introduction

Welcome to the platform for reading and lending electronic books (individually, the
"eBiblio Platform" or the "eBiblio Application", as the case may be, and collectively the "Service
eBiblio"), developed and operated jointly by Libranda/De Marque Inc. and the Ministry of
Culture and Sport together with the autonomous communities and cities of Spain, its library
(each individually a "Manager" or collectively the "Managers"), all
Managers are co-controllers of your personal data.

Distribuidora Digital de Libros ("Libranda") is a duly constituted company of
In accordance with Spanish laws based in…

Your library is a legal person whose status and headquarters depend on the website or location
where you created and registered your account, if applicable…

In this Privacy Policy, we describe how we collect, use, and disclose information
information we obtain about users of the eBiblio Platform. You will also find,
in this privacy policy, the different means by which you can contact us to,
for example, to obtain more information about the protection of your personal information, to
request that we delete, modify and/or correct your personal information.

By using the eBiblio Platform, as well as all other services available on said
eBiblio Platform, you accept and consent that your information, including information
personal, is handled in the manner described in this Privacy Policy. His use of the
eBiblio Platform and any dispute over privacy are subject to this Privacy Policy.
privacy.

Collection of Personal Information

Information you provide directly to us

What information is collected?
 
We collect the following personal information, which you provide to us directly and from
voluntarily, for example, by logging into the eBiblio Platform using your
library account or by creating an account directly on the eBiblio Platform:

Name
Last name
Email address
ID number specific to your library

We also collect certain information, such as your browsing history. Finally,
We may collect your location data when you post content to the Platform.
eBiblio, if the option to access your location data is activated on your device
mobile.

How is this information collected?

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/56

eBiblio Platform subscription form
Login form
When you complete your user profile
When you post a comment through your user profile
When you review a book through your user profile
Subscription to our newsletter

Why is this information collected and how is it used?
We use the information we collect for the following purposes:

To allow you to use the eBiblio Platform, as well as the eBiblio Services available on
her, by creating an account and a User profile;
To communicate with you if you have subscribed to the newsletter;
To communicate with you when you use the eBiblio Services of the eBiblio Platform
(for example, to provide you with a download link for an ebook you have
lent or in which you have withheld, to send you a withholding confirmation, etc.);
Statistics, research and analysis.
To provide you with technical support, as necessary;
To notify you of any changes to our terms of use and this privacy policy
privacy, and/or for other administrative purposes;
To ensure the protection of rights and interests and enforce this privacy policy
privacy and our terms of use;
To ensure that minors do not borrow books intended for adults only;
To comply with legal or regulatory obligations

We collect and use only the information that is required and necessary to
enable us to fulfill the aforementioned purposes.

In addition to the above, we also use, as described in the next section,
cookies to automatically collect information about you.

Information We Collect Automatically

What information is collected?

IP adress
OS
Page views and requests
Date and time of access
Links you click
user origin
Geolocation (Google Analytics)
The language of your browser

How and why is this information collected?

We collect such information through the use of cookies. cookies are
alphanumeric identifiers that are recorded on the hard drive of the employee's computer
User or on any other mobile device used by the User to access the
eBiblio platform. These files allow the exchange of state information
between the eBiblio Platform and the User's browser.

We use the following cookies:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/56

Session cookies: These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of the
eBiblio platform. These cookies do not collect information for commercial purposes or
for advertising targeting purposes. Session cookies are encrypted identifiers and
not recognizable that are essential for the correct functioning of some functions
(for example, they allow a faster login process and avoid having to go back
to log in on each page you browse). These cookies do not collect information to
be used for commercial prospecting or advertising orientation. Cookies from
session are encrypted identifiers that are not recognizable but are essential for
that, among other things, you do not have to log in again on each page that
navigate.

Google Analytics Cookies: Google Analytics collects various types of information with
regarding your navigation on the Platform (for example, the pages you browse, the date
and the time you access those pages, the links you click). Google
Analytics also collects, among other information, the type of operating system on your
device, the language configured for your browser, the name of your service provider
Internet services or your geographic location. The data collected, along with your
anonymous IP address, are stored by Google on servers located in Canada,
but in certain cases they can be transferred to the United States. Google uses such
information for the sole purpose of generating statistics and reports on browsing
on the eBiblio Platform. These elements allow us to improve the eBiblio Platform by
better understand the behavior of Users.

We collect and use only the information that is required and necessary to
enable us to fulfill the aforementioned purposes. You can delete all
Cookies that are installed on your computer or mobile device at any
moment. You can also disable cookies by selecting the appropriate option in
your browser settings. The deactivation of cookies can cause evil
operation of the eBiblio Platform and some of the functions or pages may be
difficult, if not impossible, to access.

Sharing and Transferring Personal Information

Consent for the international transfer of information

By checking the "I Agree" button, you agree to the collection, transfer, storage, use and
control of your information collected by the eBiblio Platform, in accordance with the conditions
and for the purposes described in this section of the privacy policy.

With whom do we share your personal information?

We promise not to commercialize the personal information we collect. If we have
intend to do so, we will ask for your express consent prior to any such disclosure.

However, we share such information with third parties in the following cases:

With your library to offer you e-book lending services;
With Google, as described above;
In the event of a change in control of the company;
To comply with applicable legal or regulatory obligations, including as part of a
Judicial procedement; to respond to a subpoena, warrant, court order, or other
legal process; or as part of an investigation or request by the police or an authority
government, Canadian or other.

If you do not want your personal information shared with third parties, you can opt out at the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/56

time of collection or at any time thereafter, as mentioned in the
next section. Please note that such a refusal may result in our being unable to provide you with
certain eBiblios Services.

Right of veto and expulsion (exclusion)

We are committed to offering you a veto and deletion right regarding your
personal information.

The right of veto is the possibility offered to Users to reject, at the time of the
collection, that your personal information is used for certain purposes mentioned in this
document The right of deletion refers to the option offered to Users to choose
that your personal information is no longer stored or used for certain purposes (for example, a list
of mail)

To exercise these rights, contact us:
Address: (…)
Email address: (…)
Phone: (…)

Right of access

We are committed to recognizing a right of access and modification for those who
wish to consult or modify information about them.

To exercise these rights, contact us:
Address: (…)
Email address: (…)
Phone: (…)

Storage and Security

The personal information we collect is stored on secure servers with access
restricted, generally located in Europe, from a third-party eBiblios Service provider.
However, please note that data collected from or shared with third parties, including,
among others, Google Analytics and, in some cases, its library, may be stored in
servers located outside of Europe, especially in the United States or Canada.
We take all reasonable means to ensure that any Service provider
External eBiblios offers a safe and appropriate environment to protect your personal information,
as well as security measures similar to those required by Spanish law. However,
Please note that applicable laws outside of Spain may authorize a government, a
court of law or a public entity to require the disclosure of your personal information. The
Managers shall not be liable in any way with respect to such disclosure and shall not
will challenge such a request to disclose your personal information if required by local law. To the
voluntarily provide us with your personal information, you agree to its collection, use and
disclosure in accordance with the above.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the security of your personal information is one of our
priorities and we are committed to taking all reasonable steps to prevent the
disclosure, use, alteration or destruction of your personal information. Libranda/De Marque
limits the number of employees who have access to such information to managers of
products, product experts and developers. Employees with access to such
information have a duty of absolute confidentiality.

To ensure the security of your personal information, we use the following measures:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/56

Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
computer backup
firewall
encrypted emails

We are committed to maintaining a high degree of confidentiality through the use of the
latest technological innovations that allow us to guarantee the confidentiality of your
transactions. However, despite our best efforts, no measures of
data security can fully guarantee the security, and always associated true
degree of risk with the provision of personal information on the Internet.

Duration of retention of personal information collected

We retain your first name, last name and email address for the entire period
during which the account you created with your library or, if applicable, the account you created
directly on the eBiblio Platform remains active, and for a period of six years
after the termination of such account or for any other period of time required
by any applicable law, for the sole purpose of complying with such applicable law.

Your loan history is saved on the eBiblio Platform for a certain period of time.
time determined by your library, after that period, your loan history will be
will delete automatically. You have the option to request loan history retention
of the tour by checking the "Keep activity history" box.

You can also delete your loan history at any time through the section
"Your account". If you do so, your data will be anonymized for statistical purposes only.

External links and forms

external links

From time to time, we may add some hyperlinks on our eBiblio Platform that
redirect you to external websites operated by third parties that we think might be of use
interest to Users. In no way does this imply that we approve the content of
these websites, nor the activities of the companies, organizations or associations in charge of
said websites. When you leave our eBiblio Platform, you and your personal information
will no longer be governed by this privacy policy. We recommend that you consult the policy of
privacy of any website you visit before you start using the site.

Babelio Platform

You will find, in the eBiblio Platform, a "Babelio" form that is a tool for the
book rating. When you use such a form to rate, review, or post a
comment about a book, your personal information will be collected directly by Babelio and,
therefore, it will be governed by Babelio's own privacy policy, which we recommend that you
read before using said form. The Managers will in no way be responsible for the
use, by Babelio, of your personal information, nor its protection.

Contact Us

For more information about our policies and practices regarding the
confidentiality, including our practices with respect to the protection and retention of
your personal information can be communicated with us at any time:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/56

Address: (…)
Email address: (…)
Phone: (…)

Changes to this Privacy Policy

The Administrators may modify this Privacy Policy at any time. Yeah
make any changes, we will take reasonable steps to notify Users of
said changes. In the event that a User fails or refuses to accept the last and
updated version of this privacy policy, your access to the eBiblio Platform may
be suspended as of the effective date of such update.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/56

ANNEX 4

Privacy Policy

"YO. Introduction

Welcome to the platform for reading and lending electronic books (individually, the
"Platform" or the "Application", as the case may be, and collectively the "Service"), developed and
operated by DISTRIBUIDORA DIGITAL DE LIBROS, S.A.U., ("Libranda"), as successful bidder
of the public service for the implementation and management of the Platform. This means that the
public administration determines for what reasons (i.e. the purposes) your data is processed,
as well as the resources (ie, the media) allocated to said processing. In
Consequently, Libranda is in charge of processing your personal data.

Distribuidora Digital de Libros, S.A.U., ("Libranda"), is a duly incorporated company
in accordance with Spanish law with registered office at..., and Identification Number
Fiscal…

The local administration of your library (the Library) is responsible for the treatment of your
personal information. You can find the identity and data of your Library, as well as the data of the
corresponding data protection delegate, accessing its website.

Libranda is aware of the need to protect your privacy and is committed to
respect the confidentiality of the personal information it collects about you.

This privacy policy summarizes (1) the types of personal information collected by Libranda,
(2) the reasons why Libranda collects personal information, (3) the way in which
Libranda uses and protects personal information, and (4) the circumstances in which it
Personal information is shared with Libranda partners and third parties, when the laws
applicable laws require or permit it. This privacy policy also describes the decisions
that may be taken with respect to the collection, use and storage of information
personnel, and access to it.

II. Collection and Use of Personal Information

As part of the operation of the Platform, Libranda will collect and/or process information
about you, as described below. Personal information is collected and used
only for the purpose indicated in this privacy policy and for no other purpose.

The provided information

When you log in to the Platform, you must select your participating library in the
eBiblio project of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, a collective project with the communities
and autonomous cities of Spain and will be directed to the Library's website, which will
will authenticate. You can only benefit from the services offered through the Platform if it is
an authenticated member of a Library. You and your Library will send Libranda your
user number to allow you to access the Platform, log in to your account
user and use the functions of the Platform. From time to time, you may provide
more information to Libranda for the purposes of managing your account either with the
Platform or for the administration of your account with your Library. Libranda keeps the
strict confidentiality of this information, in accordance with this policy, the provisions
contractual conditions to which it is subject and the applicable laws.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/56

Depending on the case, you can also download or upload information, comments or
files to the Platform. Libranda reserves all the right to verify and reject them if
violate their policies.

The legal basis that allows the processing of your data by Libranda is the
consent.

Libranda is not responsible for the use or protection of personal information that you
provide to Libraries or third parties, which is managed by Libraries or third parties
according to their own policies. Please contact them directly.
to learn more about its privacy and confidentiality policy.

The information obtained through cookies

When using the Platform, certain information may be collected (such as interactions with the
Platform or any other information described below) through session cookies
own and Google Analytics cookies. We also inform you that the transfer
international data transfer to Google is protected by the formalization of contractual clauses
type approved by the European Commission. For more information, see our Privacy Policy
Cookies.

More information

Libranda may collect information about the way in which the user interacts with the
Platform through statistical tools such as Google Analytics. To collect this
information, codes will be placed on the Platform that will allow knowing, among other things,
what searches were performed and what content was accessed, as well as the browser and the
device that was used. This information will be processed and updated each time
interact with the Platform. Finally, your geolocation data may be collected
when you post content through the Platform, if the option to share data from
geolocation is enabled on your device.

Your personal information may be collected through the following forms:

 
. Form to register on the Platform;
. Identification form;
. When you complete your user profile;
. When you post a comment on your user profile;
. When you rate a book from your user profile;

You can find additional information on how to manage cookies, including
how to revoke consent and delete cookies, in an accessible and permanent way at
at all times through the Cookies Policy of the website.

III. Use and Sharing of Collected Information

Libranda does not sell, rent or commercially exploit the information collected. Information
collected is not shared with third parties or used by third parties except for the purpose for which
was collected as described in this policy, unless required or authorized by law or
has obtained the appropriate consent, as the case may be.

We use the information collected to "Facilitate the loan of the documents included in the
platform”, that means:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/56

• Allow you to use our Platform and the services offered on it, by creating an account and a
user profile;
• Contact you as part of the service features you use, for example
For example, to give you access to the e-book download link when you're ready, to
confirm a reservation of a digital book, to notify you and send you the download link of a
loan when a book you have reserved is available for you to borrow;
• Enhance the reading experience by posting suggestions based on your personalized profile;
• Service Management;
• Offer technical support, if necessary;
• Inform you of changes to our terms of use and policies and/or other reasons
administrative;
• Protect the rights and interests and enforce this privacy policy or the conditions
of use;
• Check that the minor does not borrow books designated exclusively for
Adults;
• Compliance with the law.

Personal information

Personal information may be shared with Libranda's partners and subcontractors
that allow the Platform to function properly, for example, by helping Libranda to
develop, maintain and update the Platform. The information will only be communicated to those
"need to know" after verifying that contractual and other measures have been taken
appropriate measures. Consequently, the recipients of your personal data may be
Libranda and Google partners for the management of Google Analytics cookies.

Personal information may be used and communicated if Libranda, acting in a manner
reasonably believes that the use and disclosure is necessary to comply with the law
law, legal proceeding or governmental request, or otherwise to
any purpose set forth in applicable law that permits or requires the disclosure of
personal information.

Anonymous information used in aggregate form

Libranda may use anonymous information in aggregate form to improve the Platform. The
Anonymous information may also be used in aggregate form for research purposes and
statistics, including projects with Libranda associates.

For clarity, anonymous information used in aggregate form is not information
personal information and cannot and will not be used to re-identify you or another person.

IV. Access, Correction and Update of Personal Information

Subject to applicable law, you may request access, correction, or
removal of personal information by contacting Libranda:

Mailing address: (…)
Email address: (…)
Phone number: (…)

Depending on the case, you can also correct the information online or on your own
Platform. Data collected by third parties cannot be corrected by Libranda. You
you should contact these third parties to correct this information.

Likewise, we inform you that you have the right to file a claim with the Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

55/56

Spanish Data Protection Agency if you consider that there has been an infringement of the
data protection legislation regarding the processing of your personal data.

V. Security Measures

Libranda applies security measures based on what may be reasonably necessary
to protect the security and confidentiality of personal information. In this sense,
Libranda has implemented the following measures:

SSL Technology: With each access to the Platform through the Internet, the technology of Layer
Secure Connection (SSL) protects personal information by authenticating the
server and data encryption. No personal information will be disclosed until
this technology is activated;

Limited Access: Access to personal information is granted only to employees,
representatives and relevant subcontractors of Libranda "who have a need to know" for the purposes of
develop or operate the Platform;

Security Center: Libranda's servers are located in a data center located
in Spain and the Platform is hosted on the Google Cloud platform. to get more
information about these hosting services, please visit the conditions of use and the
policy, available at https://cloud.google.com/product-terms/.

EVEN IF LIBRANDA USES MARKETABLE QUALITY TECHNOLOGIES TO
RUN THE PLATFORM AND ITS SERVERS - AS WELL AS ANY
FILE TYPES - THEY ARE NOT FAILURE AND NOR FULLY PROTECTED
AGAINST UNPREDICTABLE EVENTS OR FORCE MAJEURE, CYBER ATTACKS OR USES AND
UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS, AND YOU SHOULD KNOW THERE IS A RISK
ASSOCIATED WITH THE ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION OF DATA. THIS RISK IS
INHERENT TO ALL ELECTRONIC OPERATIONS, AS WELL AS TO ALL
OTHER FORMS OF COMMUNICATION. THEREFORE, LIBRANDA CANNOT
ENSURE THAT INFORMATION WILL NEVER BE INTERCEPTED OR ACCESSED OR
YOU WILL SEE ENGAGED IN OTHER INCIDENTS. SUCH INCIDENTS MAY
OCCUR AND MAKE DEVICES OR SYSTEMS ACCESSIBLE TO
PERSONS NOT AUTHORIZED OR CONTROLLED BY OTHER PERSONS, AND GIVE
PLACE TO THE RECEPTION OF UNWANTED COMMUNICATIONS AND INVITATIONS. YEAH
YOU RECEIVE A MESSAGE THAT APPEARS TO COME FROM THE PLATFORM ON WHICH YOU
ASKS YOU TO SHARE PERSONAL INFORMATION, YOU SHOULD AVOID ANSWERING IT.
LIBRANDA WILL NEVER REQUEST FINANCIAL AND OTHER INFORMATION
SENSITIVE IN THIS WAY. IF YOU OR SOMEONE ELSE HAS PROVIDED
PERSONAL INFORMATION IN RESPONSE TO AN EMAIL
SUSPICIOUS, POP-UP, OR FAKE WEBSITE CLAIMING
WHICH IS ASSOCIATED WITH THE REQUEST, OR IF ANY OF THESE OCCURS
EVENTS MENTIONED ABOVE, PLEASE CONTACT LIBRANDA
IMMEDIATELY.

SAW. Personal Information Storage and Duration

Subject to applicable laws, Libranda retains and stores personal information for
its use and disclosure in accordance with this privacy policy, whenever it is
necessary for the purpose described here. To this end, Libranda may retain the information
personal once a specific purpose has been fulfilled if reasonably necessary
do so: (i) to comply with applicable laws or to prevent any infringement; (ii) for
resolve disputes; and (iii) to enforce this privacy policy.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

56/56

The period of conservation of your personal data is limited to the contract for the provision of
implementation services of the eBiblio platform, consequently, will be kept until
its termination. Once the service is finished, Libranda will return or destroy the data
personal, according to the request of each library.

VII. Third Party Websites

If the Platform provides a link to third party websites, including the website of the
Library, you should be aware that those websites operate independently and
they are subject to separate terms of use and privacy policies. It is recommended
strongly that the user knows the conditions of use and independent policies
related to these third-party websites, since Libranda is not responsible for the
content or practices of these websites.

VIII. Modifications

Libranda reserves the right to change this privacy policy at any time.
Any significant change will be communicated before it takes effect through a
popup window or any other means. Later, a version will be published
up-to-date with this privacy policy and will be readily available. In addition, it will be published
an updated version of this privacy policy whenever a change is made
minor. It is possible to determine if this privacy policy has been modified by checking the
its effective date. Libranda recommends that this privacy policy be
Please review periodically to assess your current practices, as continuing to use the
Platform implies acceptance of any changes made. If you don't agree
with changes to this privacy policy or any other applicable modifications,
You must stop using the Platform immediately.

IX. How to Contact Libranda

All questions and comments about this privacy policy or requests
related to it must be sent to Libranda at: … (email address
e-mail from Libranda).

You can withdraw your consent to the collection and use of your personal information at
any time by sending us an email at the address above. However, if
you withdraw your consent, we may no longer be able to provide you with access to the Platform.

Last update: June 23, 2021”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

