 
access by security authorities
Alexa & Co. is the wrong approach

Not expanding access, but limiting it
must be placed at the center of social discussion
become.

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, June 6th, 2019

It was announced yesterday that the Conference of Interior Ministers (IMK) intends
Recommendations for action for accessing digital traces
to develop so-called smart home applications to existing ones
to address constitutional concerns.

Although it is to be welcomed if security authorities are involved
address constitutional concerns. In the
Overall, however, it must not always be about the state
Expand access to private data.

On the contrary, the discussion in society as a whole should above all
be guided about how to collect and evaluate digital data
can be effectively limited.

The digitization of society is progressing continuously and at all
levels ahead. Step by step there are fewer and fewer areas of life
in which no digital data about us is generated and used - for
very different purposes and not always in the sense of the human
“Data Providers”. From computer to smartphone to digitized
Household and measuring devices, on to voice-controlled
Internet-based assistants like Alexa: behaviors and preferences
even in the most private area are recorded, an end to this development
is not yet in sight. Against this background,
Privacy without effective demarcations to the empty formula.

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from June 6th, 2019 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
Considerations, like all this data (also) from the security authorities
can therefore be used in the wrong direction. limitation
 
of data processing and access options must be the goal
not their expansion. Let's discuss it!

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

