

Bonn, June 10, 2021


Press release 11/2021


BDSG celebrates its 45th anniversary
On the occasion of the 45th anniversary of the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG), BfDI Professor Ulrich Kelber recalls successes in protecting the fundamental right to informational self-determination: Especially during the last year we have observed that data protection laws have proven their worth even more in the crisis.

The BfDI explains that the basic idea of the BDSG has not changed: each of us has secrets. It doesn't matter whether it's about lifestyle, health or communication. When the Bundestag passed the Federal Data Protection Act on June 10, 1976, the aim was to protect citizens from the misuse of their personal data. Very few members of parliament probably thought of social networks, state trojans and biometric video surveillance. The challenges for the BDSG continue to grow every year.
The third version of the BDSG was passed in 2017. This became necessary in order to harmonize the law with the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has been in effect since 2018. It supplements and specifies the GDPR where national regulations are left to the EU states. This includes, for example, the processing of employee data or the appointment of data protection officers. A scheduled evaluation of the law is currently taking place in order to make further adjustments. The BfDI therefore expresses a wish on the anniversary of the law: It would be nice if the government and parliament showed as much foresight as the Bundestag did in 1976 when making future adjustments to the BDSG. The pandemic will not be the last crisis where protecting citizens from those who want to misuse their secrets is essential.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











