1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00028/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 4, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the MINISTRY OF DEFENSE with NIF S2801407D (in
later, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are
succinctly the following:

“The cameras capture the parking of the surrounding houses, taking
license plates with more than five meters of separation from its fence that limits the field of
said residence, in such a way that the workers of the residence with access to the
camera screens or recordings know what time I arrive, when I leave and
they record my license plate and the movements of my vehicle and myself” (folio nº 1).

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the
presence of a device that could obtain image(s) of the area of
parking of the claimant's vehicle.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed.

The result of the previous investigation action is reflected in the file

te with reference number E/12131/2019.

THIRD: On October 29, 2019, the claim is transferred to the
Ministry of Defense requesting clarification on the causes that have motivated the
claim.
FOURTH: Dated December 30, 2019, without having received a written statement
tions of the aforementioned Ministry, the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed to reach
to carry out these investigative actions in relation to the facts re-
cried out.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FIFTH: On January 13, 2020, it is received in this Agency, with number
registration number 001176/2020, reply sent by the Ministry of Defense stating
Considering that after the analysis of the system, two improvable aspects have been detected that
could be cause for claim: one, related to the degree of compliance with the duty
to inform and transparency, materialized in some deficiency of the billboard; Y
another, relative to the orientation of some of the external chambers.
Regarding the obligation to inform the interested party of the video-monitored area, there are
posters both outside the Residence and inside, detecting that some
Some of them referred to the previous data protection regulations, so
that the installation has been instructed to correct it. They provide fo-
topographic of a total of 9 informative posters and the situation of these.
It is verified that the video-surveillance area is reported by means of posters in all the
entrances to the enclosure and other places of the perimeter and in the common areas of the interior of
the residence, indicating the person responsible for the treatment and where the interest should be directed.
sado to exercise the rights contained in the RGPD.
They also inform this Agency that regarding the capture of images by the
video surveillance cameras, have proceeded to modify their orientation in order to
in order to minimize the uptake of areas beyond the perimeter of the Residence and avoid
above all, the visualization of windows of the adjoining houses (facades
East and West sides). In this sense, they provide screen printing of the images
captured by the sixteen video surveillance cameras as seen on the monitor
display. The reorientation of cameras 2 and 7 installed in the
Lateral East façade and chambers 4 and 5 on the Lateral West façade.
In relation to the capture of the claimed video surveillance camera (camera No. 2
located on the Lateral East façade) it can be seen that it no longer captures the windows of the
adjoining house but the Avenida ***AVENIDA.1 is still partially visible
that is between the Residence and the adjoining houses and where the
parking indicated in the claim.
SIXTH: On February 9, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.
SEVENTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
pleadings in which, in summary, it stated the following:

-Responsible for the installation of the 4th General Sub-inspection Army Land (ET),

***ADDRESS.1 (***TOWN.1).

-It is only planned to allow the display of the images, as intended

In the law (…).

-As already indicated, the change of the

posters, adapting the text with reference to the new regulations.

-There are 9 informative posters in the installation about the existence of a

video-surveillance.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

EIGHTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the
procedure, remembering full accessibility to the file if required.
NINTH: On 03/08/21, a “Resolution Proposal” is issued, which
declares the commission of the infringement of article 5.1 c) RGPD, by having it reported
of several cameras oriented excessively towards the public area, making a
“data processing” of third parties without just cause.
TENTH: On 03/22/21, this Agency received a written response to the
“Resolution proposal” arguing the following:
Nullity of the procedure due to defenselessness.
It is not until February 15, 2021, in the document signed on that date, that
the AEPD notified the Agreement to Start the sanctioning procedure, which is
proof of the author's complaint and the acts allegedly sanctioned, without other
mention to the transcription of the appointment of part that is included in the brief of the
allegedly irregular acts.

The art. 53.2 Law 39/2015, (October 1) enshrines the rights of the alleged
responsible for the sanctioning procedure in accordance with the provisions of the
article 24 CE.

In conclusion of what has been exposed so far and with express invocation of the
provided in art. 47 point 1 a) and e) of the aforementioned Law 39/15 we request the File of
the performances.

About the substance of the matter. It turns out that from what has been done up to now,
accredited that the area in which the events occurred is about some houses that
are characterized by military groups, given that these areas are qualified
currently in the PGOU of 2019 as "zones-housing-military".

Therefore, the data controller has the legitimacy to carry it out.
under art. 6.1 E) RGPD, as it is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission
carried out in the public interest in the exercise of public powers vested in the
responsible for the treatment finding its legality in the regulations previously
cited.

I REQUEST: On behalf of the MDEF that I hold, that prior to the
timely verifications that in Law proceed and taking into account the allegations
(...) the Archive of these proceedings is decreed”

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 10/04/20 a claim was received against the entity-Ministry of Defense-
sa-transmitting as main fact:

“The cameras capture the parking of the surrounding houses, taking
license plates with more than five meters of separation from its fence that limits the field of
said residence, in such a way that the workers of the residence with access to the
camera screens or recordings know what time I arrive, when I leave and
they record my license plate and the movements of my vehicle and myself” (folio nº 1).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

Second. It is proven that the video-surveillance system is associated with the Ministry
Defense theory (AGE).
Third. It is proven that the Ministry of Defense (denounced) did not have
billboards in legal form, showing certain "deficiencies" that are being corrected.
swimming.
Fourth. The purpose of the denounced system is the security of the Department of Justice.
hospital, building and staff, being responsible for the effective control
of the system the Second Chief of Staff of the Army Land (ET).
Fifth. Of the set of cameras installed (16 in total) it was found that four
excessive uptake, proceeding to correct the angle of the same or pro-
yielding to the “masking” of the images.

In Annex II (Proof Documentation) the before and after of the angle is verified.

corrected gut.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

48-16112

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

Before going into the substance of the matter, it is convenient to examine the request for Nullity of the
present procedure wielding helplessness.

Article 62 of Law 39/2015 of 81 October) provides: “A complaint is understood as
ence, the act by which any person, in compliance or not with a legal obligation,
gal, informs an administrative body of the existence of a certain
fact that could justify the ex officio initiation of an administrative procedure
vo”.

Having consulted the database of this body, there is no evidence that the accused exercised her
right (art. 53.1 “in fine” Law 39/2015) “to access and obtain a copy of the documents
contained in the aforementioned procedures.

Therefore, it is not possible to wield "defenselessness" when it has not exercised in
time and form their legally recognized rights.

As stated in the pleadings brief dated 03/22/21 in the Agreement
of Initiation of this Agency it is already expressly mentioned that the procedure begins
by Complaint of the claimant, being clear the "facts" that were imputed to him and
over whom he has had the opportunity to allege what has been considered appropriate.

Furthermore, it does not specify what the defenselessness produced consists of,
making a generic argument, when the reality is that it has been allowed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

argue everything necessary to prove the legality of the camera system object-
to denounce

Therefore, it is not considered that there is any cause for nullity, reason

for which it is appropriate to reject the request in this regard.

III

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim of date of entry into
this Agency 10/04/19 through which the following is transferred as the main event:
following:

“The cameras capture the parking of the surrounding houses, taking
license plates with more than five meters of separation from its fence that limits the field of
said residence, in such a way that the workers of the residence with access to the
camera screens or recordings know what time I arrive, when I leave and
they record my license plate and the movements of my vehicle and myself” (folio nº 1).

The facts are therefore specified in the proportionality of obtaining images
through video-surveillance cameras, considering "excessive" the object perimeter
uptake.

Article 22 section 2 of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is
essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section. However, it will be
It is possible to capture the public road in a greater extension when it is necessary.
ary to guarantee the security of strategic assets or facilities or infrastructure
structures linked to transport, without in any case implying the capture
of images of the interior of a private home”

The arguments put forward initially were considered insufficient to establish
create the File of the claim presented, as the system continues to affect the
claimant's parking area, without a reasoned explanation having been made
in this regard, subsisting the “facts” object of complaint.

Video surveillance, as a solution to a security problem, must be a
adequate, pertinent and not excessive measure in relation to the purpose pursued and
that justifies the installation of surveillance cameras. Also, the proportionality
requires that the end of security cannot be achieved through other alternative means.
native, less intrusive for the fundamental rights of users.

Through the use of image and sound recording systems and their post-
better treatment, the level of protection of goods and services is substantially increased.
people's freedoms.

IV

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding
sanctioning party, it is considered that the defendant has a video camera system

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

deo-surveillance whose capturing of images had been “excessive”, seriously affecting
this way to rights of third parties.

Specifically, some of the exterior cameras were oriented towards the
of public transit and adjacent buildings, exercising excessive control of di-
many areas without just cause.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the claimant.

mado, for violation of the content of art. 5.1 c) GDPR.

Article 58 section 2 of the RGPD provides the following: Each authority of
control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

The behavior described is subsumable in the offending type of art. 83.5 a) GDPR,

which prescribes the following:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
greater amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

Article 77 section 1 LOPDGDD provides:

v

“The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous units and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When the persons in charge or persons in charge listed in section 1
had any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will issue resolutions
tion sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish thus-
same the measures that should be adopted to stop the conduct or correct the
effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
gain of which it depends hierarchically, in his case, and to those affected who had the
condition of interested party, if applicable (...)”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

4. The resolutions must be communicated to the data protection authority.
tions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the
previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions
tions issued under this article.

SAW

For the party denounced, as a result of this procedure, it has proceeded to correct
the "deficiencies" of the system, showing an attitude of full collaboration with this
organism.

We have proceeded to correct the "irregularities" consisting of a collection
excessive perimeter zones, which could affect the rights of neighbors
adjoining, preserving their privacy.

Orders have been given to update the signage to the regulations in force, that is,

taking the measures pending compliance to date.

On this aspect, it should be emphasized that no documentary evidence has been provided.

that proves the effective change of the signage adapting it to the RGPD.

Remember in any case that with the current regulations (RGPD) a
greater uptake of adjacent areas of public buildings, to avoid vandalism
dalic and incardinated in the security of state institutions.

“However, it will be possible to capture the public road in a su-
superior when necessary to guarantee the security of goods or facilities
strategic (...)” -art. 22 LOPDGDD--.

The data processing (registration) of the cars that park in an adjoining area
is an issue embedded in the security of the complex, and may be of interest
for this reason the control of the same, without being considered a priori excessive, that
they remain recorded within the periods established in the regulations.

It should be remembered that cameras improve public safety because they have a discrete
reducing subjective insecurity, allow early reaction to emergencies
of a diverse nature, as well as helping to pursue activities of a
criminal.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is necessary to verify the commission of the infraction
described, since the corrections have occurred after the notification of the Agreement of
Initiation of this sanctioning procedure, although it is not necessary to impose
any corrective measure(s) having been diligently adopted by the
Ministry outlined, except in relation to the corrections of the signage of the
complex.

Remember that if you proceed to modify the angle of the cameras,
as long as it is necessary to preserve the security of the installation for the sake of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

greater protection of the building and personnel at your service, you must notify
this body with reference to the procedure number in question.

For the reasons stated, it is appropriate to reject the request for Archive of the
this proceeding, since some of the exterior chambers "dealt with
data” in excess of public area (eg capture of the entire Avenue); it has not been
accredited despite the time elapsed the change of the signage in the terms
widely recommended and finally, the "reminders" made by the
procedure instructor may not be used at this stage of the procedure
to claim the Archive of the same.
  
Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the MINISTRY OF DEFENSE, with NIF S2801407D, for an in-
section of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction
tion of WARNING.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF DEFENSE.

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

