Torbay and South Devon  NHS Foundation Trust  Data protection audit report – executive summary  November 2021    Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust – ICO Data Protection Audit Report – November 2021 Page 2 of 9  Executive summary  Audit Methodology The Information Commissioner is responsible for enforcing and promoting compliance with the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA18) and other data protection legislation. Section 146 of the DPA18 provides the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) with the power to conduct compulsory audits through the issue of assessment notices. Section 129 of the DPA18 allows the ICO to carry out consensual audits. The ICO sees auditing as a constructive process with real benefits for controllers and so aims to establish a participative approach.   The purpose of the audit is to provide the Information Commissioner and Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust (the Trust) with an independent assurance of the extent to which the Trust, within the scope of this agreed audit, is complying with data protection legislation.  The scope areas covered by this audit are determined following a risk based analysis of the Trust’s processing of personal data.  The scope may take into account any data protection issues or risks which are specific to the Trust, identified from ICO intelligence or the Trust’s own concerns, and/or any data protection issues or risks which affect their specific sector or organisations more widely. The ICO has further tailored the controls covered in each scope area to take into account the organisational structure of the Trust, the nature and extent of the Trust’s processing of personal data, and to avoid duplication across scope areas. As such, the scope of this audit is unique to the Trust.  Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust – ICO Data Protection Audit Report – November 2021 Page 3 of 9  It was agreed that the audit would focus on the following area(s)  Scope area Description Governance and Accountability The extent to which information governance accountability, policies and procedures, performance measurement controls, and reporting mechanisms to monitor data protection compliance to both the UKGDPR and national data protection legislation are in place and in operation throughout the organisation.  Data Sharing The design and operation of controls to ensure the sharing of personal data complies with the principles of all data protection legislation.    Audits are conducted following the Information Commissioner’s data protection audit methodology. The key elements of this are normally a desk-based review of selected policies and procedures, on-site visits including interviews with selected staff, and an inspection of selected records.  However, due to the outbreak of Covid -19, and the resulting restrictions on travel, this methodology was no longer appropriate. Therefore the Trust agreed to continue with the audit on a remote basis. A desk based review of selected policies and procedures and remote telephone interviews were conducted from 4 October 2021 to 7 October 2021. The ICO would like to thank the Trust for its flexibility and commitment to the audit during difficult and challenging circumstances.  Where weaknesses were identified recommendations have been made, primarily around enhancing existing processes to facilitate compliance with data protection legislation. In order to assist the Trust in implementing the recommendations each has been assigned a priority rating based upon the risks that they are intended to address. The ratings are assigned based upon the ICO’s assessment of the risks involved. The Trust’s priorities and risk appetite may vary and, therefore, they should undertake their own assessments of the risks identified. Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust – ICO Data Protection Audit Report – November 2021 Page 4 of 9   Audit Summary  Audit Scope area Assurance Rating Overall Opinion   Governance and Accountability High There is a high level of assurance that processes and procedures are in place and are delivering data protection compliance. The audit has identified only limited scope for improvement in existing arrangements and as such it is not anticipated that significant further action is required to reduce the risk of non-compliance with data protection legislation.    Data Sharing Reasonable There is a reasonable level of assurance that processes and procedures are in place and are delivering data protection compliance. The audit has identified some scope for improvement in existing arrangements to reduce the risk of non-compliance with data protection legislation.  *The assurance ratings above are reflective of the remote audit methodology deployed at this time and the rating may not necessarily represent a comprehensive assessment of compliance.   Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust – ICO Data Protection Audit Report – November 2021 Page 5 of 9  Priority Recommendations    The bar chart above shows a breakdown by scope area of the priorities assigned to our recommendations made:   • Governance & Accountability has 7 high, 4 medium and 3 low priority recommendations • Data Sharing has 4 high and 5 medium priority recommendations Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust – ICO Data Protection Audit Report – November 2021 Page 6 of 9  Graphs and Charts    The pie chart above shows a summary of the assurance ratings awarded in the Governance & Accountability scope. 65% high assurance, 25% reasonable assurance, 10% limited assurance.   Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust – ICO Data Protection Audit Report – November 2021 Page 7 of 9    The pie chart above shows a summary of the assurance ratings awarded in the Data Sharing scope. 53% high assurance, 21% reasonable assurance, 21% limited assurance, 5% very limited assurance.    Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust – ICO Data Protection Audit Report – November 2021 Page 8 of 9  Areas for Improvement  Governance and Accountability • There are some areas regarding Information Governance (IG) training which need improvement: o Completion of mandatory IG training is below the 95% target set buy the Trust, with training compliance rates for Bank staff particularly low. o Information Asset Owners and Information Asset Administrators reported a lack of training with regard to their specific IG roles.  • There are some corrections required to the Trust’s Privacy Notice on its website to ensure that accurate information is being provided to data subjects.  • Updating is required for some policies to ensure that information and links within them are up to date.  Data Sharing • The training needs analysis should be implemented so that staff likely to be making decisions about sharing undergo specialist induction training and periodic refresher training regarding their responsibilities for data sharing.  • Information sharing agreements (ISAs) should be agreed for any existing routine data sharing not covered by formal agreements and centrally logged. All ISAs should be reviewed on a regular basis to examine the working of the agreement and reviews should feature as a regular agenda item of the Information Governance Steering Board. Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust – ICO Data Protection Audit Report – November 2021 Page 9 of 9   Disclaimer The matters arising in this report are only those that came to our attention during the course of the audit and are not necessarily a comprehensive statement of all the areas requiring improvement. The responsibility for ensuring that there are adequate risk management, governance and internal control arrangements in place rest with the management the Trust. We take all reasonable care to ensure that our audit report is fair and accurate but cannot accept any liability to any person or organisation, including any third party, for any loss or damage suffered or costs incurred by it arising out of, or in connection with, the use of this report, however such loss or damage is caused.  We cannot accept liability for loss occasioned to any person or organisation, including any third party, acting or refraining from acting as a result of any information contained in this report.  This report is an exception report and is solely for the use of the Trust. The scope areas and controls covered by the audit have been tailored to the Trust and, as a result, the audit report is not intended to be used in comparison with other ICO audit reports.