Moritz Körner,
Member of the European Parliament

By email only

Dear Mr Körner

Brussels, 16 June 2020

Ref: OUT2020-0061

Thank you for your letter of 23 January 2020 as regards the relevance of encryption bans in third
countries for assessing the level of protection in accordance with the GDPR when personal data are
transferred to countries where these bans exist.

Encryption (cryptography, more in general) is a technology, which, if implemented in the right way,
provides for the effective protection of the security of personal data and is a building block for many
other privacy-enhancing technologies. The GDPR mentions it explicitly as a possible technical measure
to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risks for the rights and freedoms of natural persons
and takes it explicitly into account in assessing certain compliance obligations.

Security (“integrity and confidentiality”) is one of the principles relating to the processing of personal
data1 , which uniquely contributes to the compliance and protection of individuals’ fundamental rights
in all processing activities. Article 32 GDPR gives to encryption, together with pseudonymisation, the
rank of a measure that, yet as appropriate, may not be neglected when identifying security protection
measures.

As the Working Party 29 already highlighted2, the EDPB considers the availability of strong and trusted
encryption  as  a  “necessity  in  the  modern  digital  world”  and  a  technology  contributing  in  “… an
irreplaceable way to our privacy and to the secure and safe functioning of our societies”. They state
that encryption “… must remain standardized, strong and efficient, which would no longer be the case
if providers were compelled to include backdoors or provide master keys”.

Any ban on encryption or provisions weakening encryption would undermine the GDPR obligations on
the concerned controllers and processors for an effective implementation of both data protection
principles and the appropriate technical and organisational measures. Similar considerations apply to
transfers to controllers or processors in any third countries adopting such bans or provisions.

Security  measures  are therefore  specifically  mentioned among  the  elements  the  European
Commission must take into account when assessing the adequacy of the level of protection in a third

1 See Article 5(1)(f) GDPR.
2 “Article 29 WP Statement on encryption”: https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-
detail.cfm?item_id=622229

1

country.3 In the absence of such a decision, transfers are subject to appropriate safeguards4 or may
be based on derogations5 ; in any case the security of the personal data has to be ensured at all times.

The EDPB is of the opinion that any encryption ban would seriously undermine compliance with the
GDPR.  More  specifically,  whatever  the  instrument  used,  it would  represent  a  major  obstacle  in
recognising  a  level  of  protection  essentially  equivalent  to  that  ensured  by  the  applicable  data
protection law in the EU, and would seriously question the ability of the concerned controllers and
processors to comply with the security obligation of the regulation.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

3 See Article 45(2)(a) GDPR.
4 See Article 46 GDPR.
5 See Article 49 GDPR.

2

