1/10

 File No.: PS/00402/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The Superior Police Headquarters of the Basque Country (hereinafter, the
complainant), dated 05/27/2021, sent the Report-Complaint to the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection. The complaint is directed against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereafter, the accused party).

The following is indicated in the letter of remission of the Minutes, in relation to the matter of
Data Protection:

“Group II of the Bilbao Provincial Immigration and Border Brigade of the Headquarters
Police Superior of the Basque Country has detected, as a result of receiving multiple
claims and complaints both from users and agencies and offices of
lawyers related to the documentary procedures of foreigners, which this
saturation, in addition to the causes exposed, is also motivated by the
practices that are being carried out by those responsible for various establishments
open to the public, mainly booths, and/or individuals who advertise for the
obtaining previous appointments in exchange for different economic amounts and that, in order to
achieve greater profit, saturate the computer platform in such a way that they cause
that users find it very difficult to obtain a free appointment before the
administration and are forced to require their services.

By going to these places, users have been forced to provide their data
personal information, both in writing and by providing a copy of your documentation
identification, to the employees or people who offer this service so that, with
said data, they can book the appointment with the administration, since said
Appointments are nominal and it is not possible to appear at the documentation offices
police officers with proof of appointments that do not correspond to the person who is going to
perform the requested procedure.

This transfer of your personal data is made without any guarantee or identification
of the person in charge of the treatment of the same, as well as without informing or obtaining the
consent of the users in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 3/2018,
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights, and the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, on your rights of access to your personal data,
rectification, deletion or limitation of its treatment incurring for it, in the opinion of
this Police Unit, in a slight infringement of article 74.a of the aforementioned L.O. 3/2018,
without prejudice to the fact that with these behaviors they may also be infringing some
another of the precepts of the L.O. 3/2018.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

On 5/11/2021, by police officers assigned to this Unit, it was
carried out an administrative inspection in the company called "***LOCUTORIO.1",
located at ***ADDRESS.1 of Bilbao, in which the existence of
numerous client files (handwritten papers, copies of documentation,
receipts of prior appointment, NIE), which were stored in said establishment with
the supposed purpose of obtaining prior appointments to carry out different
procedures, extending in the place the mandatory inspection record whose copy is
attached to this letter.

Once the corresponding procedures were carried out, the summons and
subsequent taking of statements from various people whose details appear in the
intervened documentation, which have expressed that they were not informed or
gave any express or tacit consent to the provisions of the
Article 6.1.a of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council,
of April 27, 2016, when providing your personal data to those in charge of the
establishment to obtain an appointment.

In the same way, these people have stated that due to these procedures they have been
charged different amounts of money, when the completion of said step prior to
the processing of your documentation before the corresponding administrative unit of
the National Police is free.

Based on the foregoing, in the opinion of the interveners, the owner of the establishment, both
personally or through its employees, would be infringing one or
various precepts of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights, as well as the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding
to the protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
so, on 05/19/2021, he appears in these dependencies, the
owner of the establishment, called A.A.A., whose remaining affiliation data is already
consist.

SECOND: Prior to admitting the complaint for processing, the Agency gave
transfer of it to the accused on 06/08/2021, in accordance with article 65.4
of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD). The application of
information on the facts revealed was notified to the accused to
through postal mail on 06/25/2021, as stated in the Notice of delivery of
Post.

On 07/20/2021, the respondent submitted a brief of allegations in which she indicates,
among others, the following issues:

“Clients, many of them, do not have the means, or the time, or simply
they don't want to be glued to the internet all day, and ask my store if I can
help them make the appointment, so it was explained to them verbally that there was no
security in being able to remove it, the data requested by the
application, and it was explained to them that no data was saved, at any time -
NEVER- a copy of your identification document is requested, as expressed in the "document"
sanction I have received.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

The "inspection record" does not affirm that either, also because there cannot be
clients of mine who confirm that copies of documents are requested for said procedure,
On the contrary, there are many clients who would confirm what I have stated here,
that copies of identifications are not requested, the identification data of the client for the
appointment were verbally facilitated by the client with their tacit verbal consent.

Many of my clients personally tell me that I charged very cheaply for appointments,
for considering it one more service for them, 5 euros charged only with the
purpose of attracting new clients for my main activity as call shop; well in
other sites and businesses were very expensive, also in my business on the billboard
There are informative NOTES on compliance with the RGPD in my store.

[…]

I do not have databases, nor files, nor archives of client documents, my
customers are informed verbally and through many of the companies with which
what work; and in the case of "previous appointments" the data was verbal provided by the
client with his consent, written down on sheets that were kept by me
personally, under my safety; once the appointment is received via email
the proof of the same was printed and delivered to the client, and the data destroyed
and the mail definitively eliminated (at least my clients knew it), currently
for customers who request the service (which really are not many) must sign
an INFORMATIVE NOTE on data protection and destruction, of which I attach a
NOTE also, as an example.

[…]

Along with the pleadings brief, submit a copy of the informative protection note
of data that currently makes customers who provide their personal data sign.
It indicates the following: “In compliance with the RGPD 679/2016 EU and the
LOPDGDD 3/2018, *** LOCUTORIO.1, as data controller, informs that
collects and processes the personal data provided by you, for the fulfillment of
the purpose of obtaining an appointment before the different institutions and administrations
public.

In an independent paragraph it includes: “The legitimacy for the treatment of your
personal information is the application of pre-contractual measures at your request and the
execution of the same, which consists of the provision of our services and the
compliance with the legal obligations derived from the aforementioned regulations”.

It adds: “We will keep your data for the duration of the purpose for which
they were picked up. Once this period ends or you request the deletion of your
data, these will be duly eliminated. In no case will they be used for
develop databases or the like. You have the right to request access,
rectification or deletion of data. Below is the name and surname, the number
Identity document, date and signature of the applicant.

THIRD: On 08/05/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to admit for processing the complaint filed by the denouncing party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

Well, despite the fact that currently customers must sign the aforementioned note, the
content of this does not inform in a clear and simple way to its clients of all the
matters required by article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of people
regarding the processing of personal data (hereinafter, RGPD).

FOURTH: On 09/07/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the accused party, in accordance with
to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the accused party submitted a written
of allegations in which, in summary, it stated the following:

“The claimed party was limited in the exercise of its business activity, and always
with the express consent of its clients to collect the necessary information to
request foreign appointments (...).

Once the appointment was obtained, the client in question was called to deliver the appointment and the
information provided by the same, not keeping the claimed party with ANY
DATA OF THE CUSTOMER IN QUESTION.

Obtaining the quote is FREE but this party considers that charging €5.00 per
the aforementioned management was merely testimonial.

All the information obtained and provided voluntarily by the clients was supposed
necessary to obtain the corresponding appointment (...).

Attach a copy of the document that, under the heading "Data Protection of
Personal Character”, sign the clients who provide their personal data. Specific,
indicates that “In compliance with the RGPD 679/2016 EU and the LOPDGDD 3/2018,
*** LOCUTORIO.1, as data controller, informs that it collects and treats the
personal data provided by you for the fulfillment of the purpose of
get an appointment with the different institutions and public administrations.

The legitimacy for the treatment of your personal information is the application of
pre-contractual measures at your request and the execution of the same, which consists of the
provision of our services and compliance with legal obligations
derived from the aforementioned regulations.

We will keep your data for the duration of the purpose for which they were
collected. Once this period ends or you request the deletion of your data,
these will be duly eliminated. In no case will they be used to develop
databases or the like. You have the right to request access, rectification,
suppression, limitation of its treatment, to oppose the treatment and the portability of
the data, as well as the right to file a claim with the authority of
control (article 13 of the RGPD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

You can go to (…)”. Below is the name and surname, Document No.
Identity, date and signature of the client.

SIXTH: On 02/04/2022, the instructor of the procedure agreed to open a
trial period, taking into account the previous actions of
investigation, E/06530/2021, as well as the documents provided by the defendant
on 01/28/2022.

SEVENTH: On 02/07/2022, a resolution proposal was formulated in which
proposed to direct a warning to the accused, for the violation of article 13 of the
RGPD, since it collected data from the natural persons who came to its call center to request
appointments for administrative procedures, without providing the information required by the aforementioned
precept.

Also, in accordance with article 58.2 of the RGPD, you were ordered to complete the
document "Protection of Personal Data" that makes customers sign
who provide their personal data.

EIGHTH: On 02/16/2022, the proposed resolution was notified to the person denounced
through postal mail, according to the Notice issued by Correos. To this day, this
Agency has not received any response.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The accused party requires its clients to provide their data
to reserve an appointment for them to carry out administrative procedures,
without providing them with detailed information in accordance with article 13 of the RGPD.

SECOND: It is stated by the defendant that the clients have granted the
consent for the processing of your personal data, since you must know them
to request an appointment in your name, and that, in no case, does it keep the data of the
affected once the appointment is obtained. Provide a copy of the document “Protection of
Personal Data” that it currently makes its clients sign.

THIRD: Despite the allegations of the respondent to the initial agreement, she has not
been able to prove that before initiating this sanctioning procedure, it informed
to its clients of the aspects indicated in article 13 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: The current document on "Protection of Personal Data" that
must sign the clients of the locutorio of the denounced does not include the provisions of the
article 13.1.e) of the RGPD. Even if you do not intend to communicate the data to third parties,
This section must always appear.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal on the occasion of the request for an appointment to carry out procedures
administrative constitutes a treatment of data, for which the person in charge
of the treatment must comply with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD,
providing the interested parties with all the information indicated in said precept.

In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, indicates that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
tant;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests
swindles of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision of adequacy
Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in articles
46 or 47 or article 49, section 1, second paragraph, reference to the adequate guarantees
adequate or appropriate and the means to obtain a copy of them or the fact of
that have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained,
them, the following information necessary to guarantee fair data processing and
transparent:
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when this is not possible,
ble, the criteria used to determine this term;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in any
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on consent.
lien prior to withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a re-
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing
tar such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information
on the applied logic, as well as the importance and the foreseen consequences
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the data controller plans the further processing of personal data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, will provide the
received, prior to such further processing, information about that other purpose and
any additional relevant information pursuant to paragraph 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
measure in which the interested party already has the information.”

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the data controller
ment may comply with the duty of information established in article 13
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to which
refers to the following section and indicating an electronic address or other means
that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.

b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Re-
regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected person were to be processed for the elaboration of
them, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this case, the
concerned shall be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of decisions
automated individuals that produce legal effects on him or affect him significantly.
similarly, when this right concurs in accordance with the pre-
seen in article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

a) (…)

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

c) (...)

d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

(...)

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular".

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD establishes that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

In turn, article 72.1 h) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

“They are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

v

In this case, this Agency has confirmed that the defendant requires its
customers who provide their personal data to reserve an appointment for them
carrying out administrative procedures.

Despite the allegations of the defendant to the opening agreement, he has not been able to prove
that before initiating this sanctioning procedure it informs its clients
of the aspects indicated in the aforementioned precept. Furthermore, looking at the current
“Personal Data Protection” document that you make your clients sign.
customers, does not include the provisions of article 13.1 e) of the RGPD, because, although it does not
intends to communicate the data to third parties, it must always appear.

Therefore, in accordance with the facts exposed, we are faced with a
Violation of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, by the accused.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: REQUIRE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, under the provisions of the
article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten business days from this act
of notification accredits before this organism to have completed the information that
offers to the people whose personal data it collects, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 13 of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-150222

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

