1/9

 File No.: PS/00103/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on January 15, 2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against B.B.B., C.C.C. and D.D.D. and the FACEBOOK account (FB hereinafter)
named: "***ACCOUNT.1" .

Provide a printed copy of the FB messages of the name account;” B.B.B.-with D.D.D.
and C.C.C.”, and the comment: “Negligence? Dolo? Prevarication??, printed has a date
01/14/2020, and then echoes with the impression of: “(…)”, from a message from the
day that indicates: “Today the ***CARGO.1 of Gomezserracín have requested the secretary and
Mayor of this Town Hall the report on which the Mayor…” and the annex of a “request
Documentation” which contains the request made by the three people referred to,
that are identified as ***CARGO.1 in the aforementioned Town Hall. In the expository part,
The only visible one is where it is indicated that they have been made aware of the approved resolution.
Doing the labor contract of the claimed person, identifying her with her name and surnames. allude
because "they have learned through the GESTIONA platform, which, as
***POSITION.1 of this City Council we have the right of access-.”

SECOND: Dated 02/04/2020, FB is accessed by Inspection, title: “***ACCOUNT.1”,
(...), and in information it appears "we have created a space where we are going to try to give all
available information and publish with total transparency on important topics and activities.
carriers of our municipality. ***CHARGE.1 of the City Council of Gomezserracin”
On that page it is stated:
-The document called "request for information" with the data of those who request it.
so, the three ***CHARGE.1 and the direct documentation request document can be seen in its entirety.
addressed to the City Council, signed on 01/13/2020. Access is requested to various points of the con-
treatment.
On the other hand, there is also the note “(…) January 13” with: “today the ***CHARGO.1 of the Par-
Popular Party of Gomezserracin we have asked the Secretary for an indefinite contract
as ***POSITION.1 very necessary in your opinion.”, alluding to the principles of merit,
capacity and publicity and “Today the secretary has assured us… that there is no such information.
economic legal me. We will move on."
The message appears “twice shared”. In "people who have shared this" it says
on the same page of “***ACCOUNT.1”: “B.B.B. with D.D.D. and C.C.C., the other two characters

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

nas reviewed, with the addition Negligence? Dolo? Prevarication??, integrating the “request
document tude “
THIRD The claim is transferred to the POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP IN THE
CITY COUNCIL OF GOMEZSERRACÍN on 02/20/2020, to the address of the City Council
On 05/18/2020, a letter was received from the GOMEZSERRACÍN City Council, stating
partying:
-“Dated 03/06/2020, a document of
Ms. B.B.B., C.C.C. and D. D.D.D., ***POSITION.1 of the Popular Party of the City Council of
Gomezserracín, on transfer of notification received from the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data protection dated 02/24/2020, addressed to the “POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP IN
THE CITY COUNCIL OF GOMEZSERRACÍN”, “It is appreciated that the notification of the
AEPD is received by Ms. B.B.B., at her private address, as ***POSITION.2 of the Grupo Mu-
Popular nicipal in the Gomezserracin Town Hall.”
-“The letter of the ***CARGO.1, sends to the City Council the request that the AEPD
has sent to them as the main and only part of the investigation process that said
Agency has in progress, with the intention that it be the City Council itself that justifies
that or sends information to the AEPD, when this entity is not involved in said procedure.
I am opened by the AEPD.”
-“The persons denounced in the document sent by the AEPD are the ***POSITION.1 in the
opposition of the City Council of Gomezserracín, and on its behalf and to whom the re-
cry, "POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF GOMEZSE-
RRACIN”.
“The Gomezserracín City Council is not a party, nor in the complaint filed with the
AEPD by the claimant since he is not a party denounced, nor of the claim that
this Agency makes in the file reference number E/01516/2020 and that it is directed
given exclusively to the "POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF GO-
MEZSERRACÍN”
Provides a letter called "notification transfer" in which on 03/06/2020, the
three ***CARGO.1 in City Hall are directed to this. The letter indicates:
a)
The request for information was delivered from the City Council through the
personal mail to the private address of the ***CARGO.2 of the political group, and that said
notification is directed to the Popular Group of the City Council and, where appropriate, to the person in charge or
City Council data protection officer
  ”They ask that “it be informed and managed by the Intervention Secretary of the Ayun-
b)
status as a Data Protection Delegate and send all the information requested to
the agency "
FOURTH: On 06/03/2020, the claim was accepted for processing.

FIFTH: On 05/05/2021, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

“INITIATE A SANCTIONING PROCEDURE for a GROUP
POPULAR MUNICIPAL CITY HALL IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF GOMEZSERRACÍN, (SEGOVIA),

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

for the alleged infringement of articles 32 and 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the
article 83.4.a) and 83.5. a) of the RGPD.”

The agreement was delivered to the ***CARGO.2 of the PP, and no allegations are received.

SIXTH: On 12/21/2021, a resolution proposal is issued for the literal:

“FIRST: That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
sanction POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF
GOMEZSERRACÍN, with NIF G28570927, for violations of: - Article 32 of the RGPD,
in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the RGPD, and for prescription purposes in article
73. f) of the LOPDGDD, and - article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with article
83.5.a) of the RGPD, and for prescription purposes in article 72.1.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
proceed to impose a POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF
GOMEZSERRACÍN within the period determined, the adoption of the necessary measures
to adapt to the personal data protection regulations the operations of
treatment that it carries out, with the scope expressed in the Fundamentals of Rights of
this motion for a resolution

No claims were received.

SEVENTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the
documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant claims that in the FACEBOOK (FB) account of B.B.B.- with
DDD and C.C.C.”, as of 01/14/2020, there are references to their data-name and surnames-, at
expose the comment of "(...)" that attaches a request for documentation to the City Council-
I lie, seeing the writing with your data.
SECOND: On 02/04/2020, FB was accessed by Inspection, title: “***ACCOUNT.1”,
“(…)”, and in information, it appears “we have created a space where we are going to try to give
all available information and publish with total transparency on topics and activities.
important des of our municipality. ***CHARGE.1 of the City Council of Gomezserra-
cin”.
On that page it is stated:
-The document called "request for information" with the identification data of the
that request it, the three ***POSITION.1 (and the document request document is seen in its entirety)
notice addressed to the City Council, signed on 01/13/2020). I know in that writing access to
various aspects related to the hiring of a job of a nature
labor for the claimed
On the other hand, there is also the comment: "Today the ***CARGO.1 of the Popular Party of
Gomezserracin we have requested an indefinite contract from the Secretary as ***POSITION.1
very necessary in your opinion.”, alluding to the principles of merit, ability and publicity.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

and “Today the secretary has assured us… that there is no such economic legal report.
co. We will move on."
The message appears “twice shared”. In "people who have shared this" it says
on the same page of “***ACCOUNT.1”: “B.B.B. with D.D.D. and C.C.C., the other two characters
nas reviewed, with the addition Negligence? Dolo? Prevarication??, integrating the “request
documentation tud “.

THIRD: It is unknown if the data identifying the
they qualify the claimant.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP in the Gomezserracín City Council is charged with a
violation of article 32 of the RGPD, which indicates:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature,
the scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of probability and
variable seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person responsible
and the person in charge of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes, among
others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience

permanent treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of

quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the

technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken
the risks presented by the data processing, in particular as a consequence of the
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data,
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to
said data.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
access to personal data can only process said data following instructions from the
responsible, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of Union Law or the
Member states."
Recital 74 of the RGPD indicates: “The responsibility of the user must be established.
controller for any processing of personal data carried out by
himself or on his own. In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply
timely and effective measures and must be able to demonstrate compliance of activities
treatment with this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. sayings
Measures should take into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
treatment as well as the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.”

The sending of the transfer of the claim that was made to the Municipal Group requested
explanations to it, or to its DPD, so it is not appropriate to divert responsibility or
the response to the City Council's DPD that has nothing to do with the exposure of
details of the person of the claimant, as clearly deduced from the transfer of the
same claim that was attached.

The claimed party should have security standards and data processing to
that through the knowledge it has of them, by the exercise of its functions
policies, do not expose them unnecessarily, disproportionately or inappropriately
confidentiality, as has been the case in this case, and taking into account the right to protection of
data owned by the claimant.

III

The POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP in the Gomezserracín City Council is accused of
Violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD:

 “Personal data will be:

“processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

The LOPDGDD states in its article 5:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”

In principle, the claimant has nothing to do with the decision of the City Council of
approve the hiring. Some irregularity could possibly have been committed
in the file, but the open exposure of the claimant's data is not appropriate
in the request for documentation that is made. The same purposes of transparency could
have been obtained by not exposing the data of the claimant, or crossing them out of the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

exposed document, considering that the accesses by Law of transparency to data
personal knowledge must be essential and of public interest.
person, elements that in this case do not concur. That is, it was not necessary
proportional expose that data

It is not proportional and the space of intimacy and reserve of disposition of
data of its owner, not being necessary for the purpose sought, questioning the form
to act of the town hall. The claimant does not have to suffer damages in the form of
see their data published in said document.

The Municipal Group in its political control activity accesses information from the
City Council, exposing the claimant's data openly on the social network,
administered, which supposes an interference in their right without necessity or
proportionality.

IV

Article 83.4 a) of the RGPD indicates: “Infringements of the following provisions are
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 10,000,000
EUR maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 2%
as a maximum of the global total annual turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount:

a) The obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8, 11, 25 a
39, 42 and 43;”

The LOPDGDD establishes for prescription purposes in its article 73.f) of the RGPD:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

“f) Failure to adopt those technical and organizational measures that are appropriate
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment, in the
terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

While article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, indicates:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent
tion under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

The LOPDGDD establishes a period of three years for prescription purposes and qualifies it as
very serious, in its article 72.1.a) of the RGPD, indicating: “infractions that suppose a
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:

“b) direct any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;”

“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a specified manner and within a specified time;”

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.
The Spanish legal system has chosen not to fine entities
public, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the LOPDDGG: “1. The
regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:

k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies

autonomous, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law,
the competent data protection authority will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

protection of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”
In accordance with article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, in combination with article 77.2 of the
LOPDGDD, which indicates the adoption in the resolution of "the measures that should be adopted
to stop the behavior or correct the effects of the infraction that had occurred.
committed" outlines on the one hand a first reference, which would mean an accommodation
of the treatment operations for the purpose established with the establishment of a
protocol that does not give rise to the open exposure of data of neighbors and citizens in
the questioning of the actions of the counterpart, without legal basis for their
treatment, while in the second aspect, it would focus on the prompt regularization
or correction of the effects of the infraction that would happen through the deletion of the data from the
claimant. It is unknown if either has been fulfilled.
In any case, non-compliance with the resolutions of the supervisory authority in accordance with the
article 58.2 d), would be sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of article 83.6 of the
GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS a warning to the POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP IN THE
CITY COUNCIL OF GOMEZSERRACIN, (Segovia) NIF G28570927, for a
infringement of article 32 of the RGPD and another of article 5.1.f) of the same rule, of
in accordance with articles 83.4 a) and 83.5 a), typified in articles 73.f) and
72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: ORDER POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP IN THE CITY HALL
DE GOMEZSERRACIN in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, and
77.2 of the LOPDGDD, which, within a month, adopts as appropriate measures
to adjust their actions to the personal data protection regulations, the
protocols for obtaining the results suggested in the fundamentals of
Law II and V, and the deletion of the claimant's data is proven.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the POPULAR MUNICIPAL GROUP IN
THE CITY COUNCIL OF GOMEZSERRACIN (Segovia).

FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-231221

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

