1/6

 File No.: PS/00027/2022

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated March 16, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. claims her-
tion is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The
The reasons on which the claim is based are the following, as reflected in the claim-
tion:

“The defendant is the owner of a gas station in which he has cameras installed.
video surveillance gangs. Taking advantage of this circumstance, he has installed one on the
door of my house, located on Calle ***DIRIMIENTO.1, that is, very far from ***DI-
RECTION.2 where you have the gas station.
The person in question is my cousin, who for reasons that are not relevant to explain,
he doesn't have a good personal relationship with me, and he's taking advantage of the media
that he has due to his status as an entrepreneur to coerce me and keep the entry of
my house controlled and monitored, when this is far from the purpose that should be pursued.
installation of cameras in his business, which as I have explained, is quite late.
jos from my house I understand that you are not entitled to install them, since the regulations
of data protection does not allow you to monitor beyond what your business reaches, and
has done 1.2 km away.
This fact was reported to the Civil Guard on February 27, 2020.
The camera installed is a DOME MODEL with a range of 60 meters, not understanding-
Doing what you are doing 1.2 km from your business. You have it installed from the window
upstairs and oriented to the two entrances of my house as can be seen in the photos.
cough that are attached. It should be noted that the upper floor is not his property,
but of direct relatives of him. It is unacceptable that personal differences or
bad relationship that may exist between us allows you to subject us to this surveillance.
We must also take into account that it watches over everyone who approaches our house.
We request protection so that you uninstall them and stop knowing all our movements.
lies.

We provide photos of the day 03.11.21, which show that it has not been interrupted

this behavior despite its lack of legitimacy. We request protection from this body.”
SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party in fe-
cha 04/06/21, 04/27/21 and 05/21/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to
the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: This Agency ex officio proceeds to verify that the Start Agreement of the
initial procedure PS/00350/2021, the party was not legally notified.
you claimed, proceeding to revoke the Resolution of the Director of this Agency of
dated 11/15/21 by act dated 01/18/22.

REVOKE the resolution issued on November 15, 2021 by which

sanctioned Don B.B.B. as the notification of the start agreement has not been made.

FOURTH: On February 9, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 03/21/22 collaboration is requested from the Security Forces and Bodies
authority of the town, receiving a report from the Civil Guard Command
(04/13/22) in which the following is stated:

-That there is only one video-surveillance camera in the house, which is si-
located on its façade (photographs 1 and 2), providing the person in charge of the
installation screen impression of what is captured with it.

-That in relation to the facts object of the complaint, IF there are conflicts between the
parties, facts which have been denounced in the Civil Guard Command of
Lerin.

-What is carried out Photographic report in which the indicated facts are detailed

previously.

SIXTH: On 05/23/22, a “Resolution Proposal” is issued, in which it is agreed
to propose the File of the procedure when the commission of infraction is not accredited
any administrative obligation in the matter at hand.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim presented in this Agency by
the following reasons:

“presence of video-surveillance cameras in the family home” by
close friend of the claimant, who states "he could be recording the public thoroughfare",
as well as access to family-owned housing (folio no. 1).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

Second. It is identified as the main person in charge of the B.B.B. with
DNI ***NIF.1.

Third. The presence of a single camera on the facade of the property is accredited.
oriented downwards towards the access door to the Garage, being
of a sidewalk of limited dimensions.

Fourth. The presence of several informative posters in the visible area is accredited
informing that it is a "video-monitored area" with an indication of the person in charge of the
treatment.

Fifth. There is no evidence that the claimant's data is being processed, nor that
controlling the accesses to the home, nor affecting the rights of third parties.
ros.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Re-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each authori-
control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The formal procedures
ted by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions
dictated in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sidiario, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the initial claim dated 03/16/21
by means of which the following facts are transferred:

“presence of video-surveillance cameras in the family home” that “could

be filming the public thoroughfare”, as well as access to family-owned housing.

The facts bring cause, apart from other implications in your criminal case, of the
installation of a video-surveillance camera system in a family home from which
The claimant temporarily provides the usufruct.

The installation of video surveillance cameras on the street corresponds solely and exclusively to
to the State Security Forces and Bodies in the performance of functions
security.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

The facts denounced could imply an affectation to the content of art.
5.1 c) RGPD (regulations currently in force) that provides: "personal data is
ran:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed (“data minimization”) (…)”.

Individuals are responsible for the installed video-surveillance systems to be
comply with current legislation, and must be able to prove such extremes.
We report to the competent authority.

Cameras installed by individuals must be oriented towards their private space.
vative avoiding the capture of private area of third parties without just cause.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the objective environment.
of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces.
contiguous buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

A certain “caution” must be taken when installing this type of device.
tives, weighing their usefulness in the absence of a less harmful means, given their
affectation of the right (image) of third parties by treating them.

Likewise, in the case of false cameras, they must be oriented
to a private area, avoiding intimidation of neighboring neighbors who are unaware
know whether or not they process personal data.

III

In accordance with the "evidence" available in this proceeding
sanctioning party, it is considered that the claimed party has proceeded to install a system
of video-surveillance cameras, consisting of a single camera that captures from the
facade of the property a minimum portion of sidewalk, coinciding with the access to the
house garage.

The installed system has an informative poster(s) indicating that it is
of a video-monitored area, informing of the person responsible for the treatment and the way of
exercise rights within the framework of the regulations in force.

It has not been verified that a control of the entrances/exits is being exercised
of the property that affect the rights of the claimant and/or third parties, nor that it is
Tea producing a "treatment of your data" outside the permitted assumptions.

It should be specified that the analysis of the claims in the matter that we
occupies must be carried out according to the context of the specific case, not being disproportionate
mentioned the presence of the device to avoid graffiti on the door as a guide.
ta access to the garage.

Article 22 section 2 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is

essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

Therefore, sometimes a capture of minimum public space is allowed
essential for the protection of persons or property, as is the case of
this analysis due, among other reasons, to the small portion of public sidewalk that limits
with access to the garage of the house.

It is recalled that with this type of device it is not possible to control the
the entrances/exits of the property, as it can be considered a means of coercion of
the freedom of its inhabitants, who can be intimidated by this type
of devices being a conduct with reproach in other fields of law.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

IV

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that excessive control has not been proven.
of public area that affects neighbors close to the property in question, considering-
I know that the installation of the camera is proportionate to the purpose pursued and that the
itself is duly informed, a reason that justifies the filing of this proceeding.
ment.

Lastly, the parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake,
avoiding the instrumentalization of this body for issues outside the
data protection or that may well be resolved in the appropriate judicial instances.
tunas for an alleged violation of the right to privacy of the claimant or any
any other contentious issue between them.

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives any administrative infraction in the matter that concerns us.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the party claimed B.B.B. and inform
of the result of the proceedings to the complaining party.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-100322

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

