01.10.2020
Penalties for GDPR violations

1) The National Supervisory Authority for the Processing of Personal Data completed an investigation at Megareduceri TV S.R.L., during which it found a violation of certain provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Thus, Megareduceri TV S.R.L. was sanctioned for the fact that it did not carry out the corrective measure ordered to send a response to the requests of the National Authority for the Supervision of the Processing of Personal Data, thus violating the instructions of our institution, a fact provided for in art. 83 para. (5) lit. e) from Regulation (EU) 679/2016. As such, the operator was fined 14,519.1 lei (the equivalent of 3,000 EURO).
At the same time, the operator Megareduceri TV S.R.L. a corrective measure was also applied to him, to send the National Supervisory Authority for the Processing of Personal Data a response to the previously communicated addresses within 5 calendar days, pursuant to art. 58 para. (2) lit. d) from Regulation (EU) 679/2016.
The investigation was started as a result of the fact that several petitioners notified the National Authority for the Supervision of the Processing of Personal Data regarding the fact that they received commercial messages promoting the services on the website www.reducerazi.ro, without to have expressed consent to receive such messages on personal phone numbers.

2) The National Supervisory Authority for the Processing of Personal Data completed an investigation at the Militari R Owners Association, Chiajna commune, Ilfov county, during which it found a violation of certain provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Thus, the owners' association was sanctioned for the fact that it did not carry out the corrective measure ordered to send a response to the requests of the National Supervisory Authority for the Processing of Personal Data, thus violating the instructions of our institution, the act provided for by art. 83 para. (5) of Regulation (EU) 679/2016. As such, the operator was fined 9659 lei, the equivalent of 2000 EURO;
At the same time, a corrective measure was applied to the owners' association, to send in writing to the National Authority for the Supervision of the Processing of Personal Data all the information requested via the previously communicated address, within 5 calendar days, pursuant to art. (58) para. (1) lit. a) and e) of Regulation Regulation (EU) no. 679/2016.
The sanctions were imposed as a result of a complaint by which the petitioner complained about the fact that his request submitted to the owners' association was not answered.
Legal direction and communication
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.