Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and

processor in the GDPR

Version 2.0

Adopted on 07 July 2021

Adopted - After public consultation

1

Version history

Version 2.0

7 July 2021

Adoption of the Guidelines after public consultation

Version 1.0

2 September 2020

Adoption of the Guidelines for public consultation

Adopted - After public consultation

2

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The concepts of controller, joint controller and processor play a crucial role in the application of the
General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR), since they determine who shall be responsible
for compliance with different data protection rules, and how data subjects can exercise their rights in
practice. The precise meaning of these concepts and the criteria for their correct interpretation must
be sufficiently clear and consistent throughout the European Economic Area (EEA).

The concepts of controller, joint controller and processor are functional concepts in that they aim to
allocate responsibilities according to the actual roles of the parties and autonomous concepts in the
sense that they should be interpreted mainly according to EU data protection law.

Controller

In principle, there is no limitation as to the type of entity that may assume the role of a controller but
in practice it is usually the organisation as such, and not an individual within the organisation (such as
the CEO, an employee or a member of the board), that acts as a controller.

A controller is a body that decides certain key elements of the processing. Controllership may be
defined by law or may stem from an analysis of the factual elements or circumstances of the case.
Certain processing activities can be seen as naturally attached to the role of an entity (an employer to
employees, a publisher to subscribers or an association to its members). In many cases, the terms of
a contract can help identify the controller, although they are not decisive in all circumstances.

A  controller  determines  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing,  i.e.  the why and how of  the
processing. The controller must decide on both purposes and means. However, some more practical
aspects of implementation (“non-essential means”) can be left to the processor. It is not necessary
that the controller actually has access to the data that is being processed to be qualified as a controller.

Joint controllers

The qualification as joint controllers may arise where more than one actor is involved in the processing.
The  GDPR  introduces  specific  rules  for  joint  controllers  and  sets  a  framework  to  govern  their
relationship. The overarching criterion for joint controllership to exist is the joint participation of two
or more entities in the determination of the purposes and means of a processing operation. Joint
participation can take the form of a common decision taken by two or more entities or result from
converging decisions by two or more entities, where the decisions complement each other and are
necessary for the processing to take place in such a manner that they have a tangible impact on the
determination  of  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing.  An  important  criterion  is  that  the
processing would not be possible without both parties’ participation in the sense that the processing
by  each  party  is  inseparable,  i.e.  inextricably  linked.  The joint  participation  needs  to  include  the
determination of purposes on the one hand and the determination of means on the other hand.

Processor

A processor is a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or another body, which processes
personal data on behalf of the controller. Two basic conditions for qualifying as processor exist: that it
is a separate entity in relation to the controller and that it processes personal data on the controller’s
behalf.

The processor must not process the data otherwise than according to the controller’s instructions. The
controller’s instructions may still leave a certain degree of discretion about how to best serve the

Adopted - After public consultation

3

controller’s interests, allowing the processor to choose the most suitable technical and organisational
means. A processor infringes the GDPR, however, if it goes beyond the controller’s instructions and
starts  to  determine  its  own  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing. The  processor  will  then  be
considered a controller in respect of that processing and may be subject to sanctions for going beyond
the controller’s instructions.

Relationship between controller and processor

A  controller  must  only  use  processors  providing  sufficient  guarantees  to  implement  appropriate
technical and organisational measures so that the processing meets the requirements of the GDPR.
Elements to be taken into account could be the processor’s expert knowledge (e.g. technical expertise
with  regard  to  security  measures  and  data  breaches);  the  processor’s reliability; the  processor’s
resources and the processor’s adherence to an approved code of conduct or certification mechanism.

Any processing of personal data by a processor must be governed by a contract or other legal act which
shall be in writing, including in electronic form, and be binding. The controller and the processor may
choose to negotiate their own contract including all the compulsory elements or to rely, in whole or in
part, on standard contractual clauses.

The GDPR lists the elements that have to be set out in the processing agreement. The processing
agreement should not, however, merely restate the provisions of the GDPR; rather, it should include
more specific, concrete information as to how the requirements will be met and which level of security
is required for the personal data processing that is the object of the processing agreement.

Relationship among joint controllers

Joint controllers shall in a transparent manner determine and agree on their respective responsibilities
for  compliance  with  the  obligations  under  the  GDPR.  The  determination  of  their  respective
responsibilities must in particular regard the exercise of data subjects’ rights and the duties to provide
information.  In  addition  to  this,  the  distribution  of  responsibilities  should  cover  other  controller
obligations such as regarding the general data protection principles, legal basis, security measures,
data breach notification obligation, data protection impact assessments, the use of processors, third
country transfers and contacts with data subjects and supervisory authorities.

Each joint controller has the duty to ensure that they have a legal basis for the processing and that the
data are not further processed in a manner that is incompatible with the purposes for which they were
originally collected by the controller sharing the data.

The legal form of the arrangement among joint controllers is not specified by the GDPR. For the sake
of legal certainty, and in order to provide for transparency and accountability, the EDPB recommends
that such arrangement be made in the form of a binding document such as a contract or other legal
binding act under EU or Member State law to which the controllers are subject.

The arrangement shall duly reflect the respective roles and relationships of the joint controllers vis-à-
vis the data subjects and the essence of the arrangement shall be made available to the data subject.

Irrespective of the terms of the arrangement, data subjects may exercise their rights in respect of and
against  each  of  the  joint  controllers.  Supervisory  authorities  are  not  bound  by  the  terms  of  the
arrangement  whether  on  the  issue  of  the  qualification  of  the  parties  as  joint  controllers  or  the
designated contact point.

Adopted - After public consultation

4

TABLE OF CONTENTS

3

2.1

3.1
3.2

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY............................................................................................................................. 3
INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................................................................... 7
PART I – CONCEPTS................................................................................................................................. 8
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS................................................................................................................ 8
1
2
DEFINITION OF CONTROLLER .......................................................................................................... 9
Definition of controller............................................................................................................ 9
“Natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body” .............................. 10
2.1.1
“Determines”................................................................................................................. 11
2.1.2
“Alone or jointly with others” ....................................................................................... 14
2.1.3
“Purposes and means” .................................................................................................. 14
2.1.4
2.1.5
“Of the processing of personal data”............................................................................ 17
DEFINITION OF JOINT CONTROLLERS............................................................................................ 18
Definition of joint controllers................................................................................................ 18
Existence of joint controllership............................................................................................ 18
General considerations ................................................................................................. 18
3.2.1
Assessment of joint participation.................................................................................. 19
3.2.2
3.2.3
Situations where there is no joint controllership.......................................................... 24
DEFINITION OF PROCESSOR .......................................................................................................... 25
4
5
DEFINITION OF THIRD PARTY/RECIPIENT...................................................................................... 28
PART II – CONSEQUENCES OF ATTRIBUTING DIFFERENT ROLES......................................................... 30
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CONTROLLER AND PROCESSOR ........................................................... 30
1
Choice of the processor......................................................................................................... 30
Form of the contract or other legal act................................................................................. 31
Content of the contract or other legal act ............................................................................ 34
The processor must only process data on documented instructions from the controller
1.3.1
(Art. 28(3)(a) GDPR)....................................................................................................................... 35
1.3.2
The processor must ensure that persons authorised to process the personal data have
committed themselves to confidentiality or are under an appropriate statutory obligation of
confidentiality (Art. 28(3)(b) GDPR) .............................................................................................. 36
The processor must take all the measures required pursuant to Article 32 (Art. 28(3)(c)
1.3.3
GDPR)
37

1.1
1.2
1.3

1.3.4
engaging another processor (Art. 28(3)(d) GDPR). ........................................................................... 37

The processor must respect the conditions referred to in Article 28(2) and 28(4) for

Adopted - After public consultation

5

The processor must make available to the controller all information necessary to

On termination of the processing activities, the processor must, at the choice of the

The processor must assist the controller in ensuring compliance with the obligations

1.3.5
The processor must assist the controller for the fulfilment of its obligation to respond to
requests for exercising the data subject's rights (Article 28(3) (e) GDPR). ....................................... 38
1.3.6
pursuant to Articles 32 to 36 (Art. 28(3)(f) GDPR). ........................................................................... 38
1.3.7
controller, delete or return all the personal data to the controller and delete existing copies (Art.
28(3)(g) GDPR)................................................................................................................................... 40
1.3.8
demonstrate compliance with the obligations laid down in Article 28 and allow for and contribute
to audits, including inspections, conducted by the controller or another auditor mandated by the
controller (Art. 28(3)(h) GDPR).......................................................................................................... 40
Instructions infringing data protection law........................................................................... 41
1.4
1.5
Processor determining purposes and means of processing ................................................. 42
Sub-processors ...................................................................................................................... 42
1.6
CONSEQUENCES OF JOINT CONTROLLERSHIP............................................................................... 43
2.1
Determining in a transparent manner the respective responsibilities of joint controllers for
compliance with the obligations under the GDPR ............................................................................ 43
2.2
Allocation of responsibilities needs to be done by way of an arrangement......................... 46
Form of the arrangement.............................................................................................. 46
Obligations towards data subjects ................................................................................ 46
Obligations towards data protection authorities.................................................................. 48

2.2.1
2.2.2

2.3

2

Adopted - After public consultation

6

The European Data Protection Board
Having regard to Article 70 (1e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter “GDPR”
or “the Regulation”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

Whereas the preparatory work of these guidelines involved the collection of inputs from stakeholders,
both in writing and at a stakeholder event, in order to identify the most pressing challenges;

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES

INTRODUCTION

1.

2.

3.

4.

This document seeks to provide guidance on the concepts of controller and processor based on the
GDPR’s rules on definitions in Article 4 and the provisions on obligations in chapter IV. The main aim is
to  clarify  the  meaning  of  the  concepts  and  to  clarify  the  different  roles  and  the  distribution  of
responsibilities between these actors.

The concept of controller and its interaction with the concept of processor play a crucial role in the
application of the GDPR, since they determine who shall be responsible for compliance with different
data protection rules, and how data subjects can exercise their rights in practice. The GDPR explicitly
introduces  the  accountability  principle,  i.e.  the  controller  shall  be  responsible  for,  and  be  able  to
demonstrate  compliance  with,  the  principles  relating  to  processing  of  personal  data  in  Article  5.
Moreover, the GDPR also introduces more specific rules on the use of processor(s) and some of the
provisions on personal data processing are addressed - not only to controllers - but also to processors.

It is therefore of paramount importance that the precise meaning of these concepts and the criteria
for their correct use are sufficiently clear and shared throughout the European Union and the EEA.

The Article 29 Working Party issued guidance on the concepts of controller/processor in its opinion
1/2010  (WP169)2 in  order  to  provide  clarifications  and  concrete  examples  with  respect  to  these
concepts. Since the entry into force of the GDPR, many questions have been raised regarding to what
extent the GDPR brought changes to the concepts of controller and processor and their respective
roles. Questions were raised in particular to the substance and implications of the concept of joint
controllership (e.g. as laid down in Article 26 GDPR) and to the specific obligations for processors laid
down in Chapter IV (e.g. as laid down in Article 28 GDPR). Therefore, and as the EDPB recognizes that
the concrete application of the concepts needs further clarification, the EDPB now deems it necessary

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.
2 Article  29  Working  Party  Opinion  1/2010  on  the  concepts  of  “controller”  and  “processor”  adopted  on  16
February 2010, 264/10/EN, WP 169.
Adopted - After public consultation

7

to  give  more  developed  and  specific  guidance  in  order  to  ensure  a  consistent  and harmonised
approach throughout the EU and the EEA. The present guidelines replace the previous opinion of
Working Party 29 on these concepts (WP169).

5.

In  part  I,  these  guidelines  discuss  the  definitions  of  the  different  concepts  of  controller,  joint
controllers,  processor  and  third  party/recipient.  In  part  II,  further  guidance  is  provided  on  the
consequences that are attached to the different roles of controller, joint controllers and processor.

PART I – CONCEPTS

1 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

6.

The GDPR, in Article 5(2), explicitly introduces the accountability principle which means that:

 the controller shall be responsible for the compliance with the principles set out in Article 5(1)

GDPR; and that

 the controller shall be able to demonstrate compliance with the principles set out in Article 5(1)

GDPR.

7.

8.

9.

This principle has been described in an opinion by the Article 29 WP 3 and will not be discussed in detail
here.

The aim of incorporating the accountability principle into the GDPR and making it a central principle
was to emphasize that data controllers must implement appropriate and effective measures and be
able to demonstrate compliance. 4

The accountability principle has been further elaborated in Article 24, which states that the controller
shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure and to be able to
demonstrate that processing is performed in accordance with the GDPR. Such measures shall be
reviewed and updated if necessary. The accountability principle is also reflected in Article 28, which
lays down the controller’s obligations when engaging a processor.

The accountability principle is directly addressed to the controller. However, some of the more specific
rules are addressed to both controllers and processors, such as the rules on supervisory authorities’
powers in Article 58. Both controllers and processors can be fined in case of non-compliance with the
obligations of the GDPR that are relevant to them and both are directly accountable towards
supervisory authorities by virtue of
the obligations to maintain and provide appropriate
documentation upon request, co-operate in case of an investigation and abide by administrative
orders. At the same time, it should be recalled that processors must always comply with, and act only
on, instructions from the controller.

10.

The accountability principle, together with the other, more specific rules on how to comply with the
GDPR and the distribution of responsibility, therefore makes it necessary to define the different roles
of several actors involved in a personal data processing activity.

3 Article  29  Working  Party  Opinion  3/2010  on  the  principle  of  accountability  adopted  on  13  July  2010,
00062/10/EN WP 173.
4 Recital 74 GDPR.
Adopted - After public consultation

8

11.

12.

13.

14.

A general observation regarding the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR is that they have
not changed compared to the Directive 95/46/EC and that overall, the criteria for how to attribute the
different roles remain the same.

The concepts of controller and processor are functional concepts: they aim to allocate responsibilities
according to the actual roles of the parties.5This implies that the legal status of an actor as either a
“controller”  or  a  “processor”  must  in  principle  be  determined  by  its  actual  activities  in  a  specific
situation,  rather  than  upon  the  formal designation  of  an  actor  as  being  either  a  “controller”  or
“processor” (e.g. in a contract).6 This means that the allocation of the roles usually should stem from
an analysis of the factual elements or circumstances of the case and as such is not negotiable.

The concepts of controller and processor are also autonomous concepts in the sense that, although
external legal sources can help identifying who is a controller, it should be interpreted mainly according
to EU data protection law. The concept of controller should not be prejudiced by other - sometimes
colliding or overlapping - concepts in other fields of law, such as the creator or the right holder in
intellectual property rights or competition law.

As the underlying objective of attributing the role of controller is to ensure accountability and the
effective and comprehensive protection of the personal data, the concept of ‘controller’ should be
interpreted  in  a  sufficiently  broad  way,  favouring  as  much  as  possible effective  and  complete
protection of data subjects7 so as to ensure full effect of EU data protection law, to avoid lacunae and
to prevent possible circumvention of the rules, while at the same time not diminishing the role of the
processor.

2 DEFINITION OF CONTROLLER

2.1 Definition of controller

15.

A controller is defined by Article 4(7) GDPR as

“the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly with
others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data; where the
purposes and means of such processing are determined by Union or Member State law, the
controller or the specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for by Union or Member State
law”.

16.

The definition of controller contains five main building blocks, which will be analysed separately for
the purposes of these Guidelines. They are the following:



“the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body”

5 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 1/2010, WP 169, p. 9.
6 See  also  the  Opinion  of  Advocate  General  Mengozzi,  in Jehovah’s  witnesses,  C-25/17,  ECLI:EU:C:2018:57,
paragraph 68 (“For the purposes of determining the ‘controller’ within the meaning of Directive 95/46, I am
inclined to consider [….] that excessive formalism would make it easy to circumvent the provisions of Directive
95/46 and that, consequently, it is necessary to rely upon a more factual than formal analysis […].”)
7 CJEU, Case C-131/12, Google Spain SL and Google Inc. v Agencia Española de Protección de Datos (AEPD) and
Mario Costeja González, judgment of 13 May 2014, paragraph 34; CJEU, Case C-210/16, Wirtschaftsakademie
Schleswig-Holstein, judgment of 5 June 2018, paragraph 28; CJEU, Case C-40/17, Fashion ID GmbH & Co.KG v
Verbraucherzentrale NRW eV, judgment of 29 July 2019, paragraph 66.
Adopted - After public consultation

9









“determines”

“alone or jointly with others”

“the purposes and means”

“of the processing of personal data”.

17.

18.

2.1.1 “Natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body”
The  first  building  block  relates  to  the  type  of  entity  that  can  be  a  controller.  Under  the  GDPR,  a
controller can be “a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body”. This means that,
in principle, there is no limitation as to the type of entity that may assume the role of a controller. It
might be an organisation, but it might also be an individual or a group of individuals.8 In practice,
however, it is usually the organisation as such, and not an individual within the organisation (such as
the CEO, an employee or a member of the board), that acts as a controller within the meaning of the
GDPR. As far as data processing within a company group is concerned, special attention must be paid
to the question of whether an establishment may be acting  as a controller or processor, e.g. when
processing data on behalf of the parent company.

Sometimes, companies and public bodies appoint a specific person responsible for the implementation
of the processing activity. Even if a specific natural person is appointed to ensure compliance with data
protection rules, this person will not be the controller but will act on behalf of the legal entity (company
or public body) which will be ultimately responsible in case of infringement of the rules in its capacity
as  controller.  In  the  same  vein,  even  if a  particular  department  or  unit  of  an  organisation has
operational responsibility for ensuring compliance for certain processing activity, it does not mean that
this department or unit (rather than the organisation as a whole) becomes the controller.

Example:
The  marketing  department  of  Company  ABC  launches  an  advertising  campaign  to  promote  ABC’s
products. The marketing department decides the nature of campaign, the means to be used (e-mail,
social media ...), which customers to target and what data to use in order to make the campaign as
successful  as  possible.  Even  if  the  marketing  department  acted  with  considerable  independence,
Company ABC will in principle be considered as the controller seeing as the advertising campaign is
launched  by  the  company  and  takes  place  within  the  realm  of  its  business  activities  and  for  its
purposes.

19.

In  principle,  any  processing  of  personal  data  by  employees which takes  place  within the  realm of
activities of an organisation may be presumed to take place under that organisation’s control.9 In
exceptional circumstances, however, it may occur that an employee decides to use personal data for
his or her own purposes, thereby unlawfully exceeding the authority that he or she was given. (e.g. to
set up his own company or similar). It is therefore the organisation’s duty as controller to make sure

8 For example, in its  Judgment in Jehovah’s witnesses, C-25/17, ECLI:EU:C:2018:551, paragraph 75, the CJEU
considered that a religious community of Jehovah’s witnesses acted as a controller, jointly with its individual
members. Judgment in Jehovah’s witnesses, C-25/17, ECLI:EU:C:2018:551, paragraph 75.
9 Employees  who  have  access  to  personal  data  within  an  organisation  are  generally not  considered  as
“controllers”  or  “processors”,  but  rather  as  “persons  acting  under  the  authority  of  the  controller  or  of  the
processor” within the meaning of article 29 GDPR.
Adopted - After public consultation

10

20.

21.

22.

that there are adequate technical and organizational measures, including e.g. training and information
to employees, to ensure compliance with the GDPR. 10

2.1.2 “Determines”
The  second  building  block  of  the  controller  concept  refers  to  the  controller’s influence over  the
processing, by virtue of an exercise of decision-making power. A controller is a body that decides certain
key elements about the processing. This controllership may be defined by law or may stem from an
analysis of the factual elements or circumstances of the case. One should look at the specific processing
operations  in  question  and  understand  who  determines  them,  by  first  considering  the  following
questions: "why is this processing taking place?” and “who decided that the processing should take
place for a particular purpose?”.

Circumstances giving rise to control

Having said that the concept of controller is a functional concept, it is therefore based on a factual
rather than a formal analysis. In order to facilitate the analysis, certain rules of thumb and practical
presumptions may be used to guide and simplify the process. In most situations, the "determining
body" can be easily and clearly identified by reference to certain legal and/or factual circumstances
from which “influence” normally can be inferred, unless other elements indicate the contrary. Two
categories  of  situations  can  be  distinguished:  (1)  control  stemming  from legal  provisions;  and  (2)
control stemming from factual influence.

1) Control stemming from legal provisions

There are cases where control can be inferred from explicit legal competence e.g., when the controller
or the specific criteria for its nomination are designated by national or Union law. Indeed, Article 4(7)
states that “where the purposes and means of such processing are determined by Union or Member
State law, the controller or the specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for by Union or
Member State law.” While Article 4(7) only refers to “the controller” in the singular form, the EDPB
considers that it may also be possible for Union or Member State law to designate more than one
controller,  possibly even as joint controllers.

23. Where the controller has been specifically identified by law this will be determinative for establishing
who is acting as controller. This presupposes that the legislator has designated as controller the entity
that has a genuine ability to exercise control. In some countries, the national law provides that public
authorities are responsible for processing of personal data within the context of their duties.

24.

However, more commonly, rather than directly appointing the controller or setting out the criteria for
its appointment, the law will establish a task or impose a duty on someone to collect and process
certain  data.  In  those  cases,  the  purpose  of  the  processing  is  often  determined  by  the  law.  The
controller will normally be the one designated by law for the realization of this purpose, this public
task. For example, this would be the case where an entity which is entrusted with certain public tasks
(e.g., social security) which cannot be fulfilled without collecting at least some personal data, sets up
a database or register in order to fulfil those public tasks. In that case, the law, albeit indirectly, sets
out who is the controller. More generally, the law may also impose an obligation on either public or
private entities to retain or provide certain data. These entities would then normally be considered as
controllers with respect to the processing that is necessary to execute this obligation.

10 Article 24(1) GDPR.
Adopted - After public consultation

11

25.

26.

27.

Example:  Legal provisions
The  national  law  in  Country  A  lays  down  an  obligation  for  municipal  authorities  to  provide  social
welfare benefits such as monthly payments to citizens depending on their financial situation. In order
to  carry  out  these  payments,  the  municipal  authority  must  collect  and  process  data  about  the
applicants’ financial circumstances. Even though the law does not explicitly state that the municipal
authorities are controllers for this processing, this follows implicitly from the legal provisions.

2) Control stemming from factual influence

In the absence of control arising from legal provisions, the qualification of a party as controller must
be established on the basis of an assessment of the factual circumstances surrounding the processing.
All relevant factual circumstances must be taken into account in order to reach a conclusion as to
whether  a  particular  entity  exercises  a  determinative  influence  with  respect  to  the  processing  of
personal data in question.

The need for factual assessment also means that the role of a controller does not stem from the nature
of an entity that is processing data but from its concrete activities in a specific context. In other words,
the  same  entity  may  act  at  the  same  time  as  controller  for  certain  processing  operations  and  as
processor for others, and the qualification as controller or processor has to be assessed with regard to
each specific data processing activity.

In practice, certain processing activities can be considered as naturally attached to the role or activities
of an entity ultimately entailing responsibilities from a data protection point of view. This can be due
to more general legal provisions or an established legal practice in different areas (civil law, commercial
law, labor law etc.). In this case, existing traditional roles and professional expertise that normally imply
a certain responsibility will help in identifying the controller, for example:  an employer in relation to
processing  personal  data  about  his  employees,  a  publisher  processing  personal  data about  its
subscribers, or an association processing personal data about its members or contributors. When an
entity  engages  in  processing  of  personal  data  as  part  of  its  interactions  with  its  own  employees,
customers or members, it will generally be the one who determines the purpose and means around
the processing and is therefore acting as a controller within the meaning of the GDPR.

Example: Law firms
The company ABC hires a law firm to represent it in a dispute. In order to carry out this task, the law
firm needs to process personal data related to the case. The reasons for processing the personal data
is the law firm’s mandate to represent the client in court. This mandate however is not specifically
targeted to personal data processing. The law firm acts with a significant degree of independence, for
example in deciding what information to use and how to use it, and there are no instructions from the
client company regarding the personal data processing.  The processing that the law firm carries out
in order to fulfil the task as legal representative for the company is therefore linked to the functional
role of the law firm so that it is to be regarded as controller for this processing.

Example: Telecom operators11:

11 The  EDPB  considers  that  this  example,  previously  included  in  Recital  (47)  of  Directive  95/46/EC,  remains
relevant also under the GDPR.
Adopted - After public consultation

12

28.

29.

30.

Providing an electronic communications service such as an electronic mail service involves processing
of personal data. The provider of such services will normally be considered a controller in respect of
the processing of personal data that is necessary for the operation of the service as such (e.g., traffic
and billing data). If the sole purpose and role of the provider is to enable the transmission of email
messages,  the  provider  will  not  be  considered  as  the  controller  in  respect  of  the  personal  data
contained in the message itself. The controller in respect of any personal data contained inside the
message will normally be considered to be the person from whom the message originates, rather than
the service provider offering the transmission service.

In many cases, an assessment of the contractual terms between the different parties involved can
facilitate the determination of which party (or parties) is acting as controller. Even if a contract is silent
as to who is the controller, it may contain sufficient elements to infer who exercises a decision-making
role  with  respect  to  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing.  It  may  also  be  that  the  contract
contains an explicit statement as to the identity of the controller. If there is no reason to doubt that
this  accurately  reflects  the  reality,  there  is  nothing  against  following  the  terms  of  the  contract.
However, the terms of a contract are not decisive in all circumstances, as this would simply allow
parties to allocate responsibility as they see fit. It is not possible either to become a controller or to
escape  controller  obligations  simply  by  shaping  the  contract  in  a  certain  way  where  the  factual
circumstances say something else.

If one party in fact decides why and how personal data are processed that party will be a controller
even if a contract says that it is a processor. Similarly, it is not because a commercial contract uses the
term “subcontractor”  that  an  entity  shall  be  considered  a  processor  from  the  perspective of  data
protection law.12

In line with the factual approach, the word “determines” means that the entity that actually exerts a
decisive influence on the purposes and means of the processing is the controller. Normally, a processor
agreement establishes who the determining party (controller) and the instructed party (processor) are.
Even if the processor offers a service that is preliminary defined in a specific way, the controller has to
be presented with a detailed description of the service and must make the final decision to actively
approve the way the processing is carried out and request changes if necessary. Furthermore, the
processor cannot at a later stage change the essential elements of the processing without the approval
of the controller.

Example: standardised cloud storage service
A large cloud storage provider offers its customers the ability to store large volumes of personal data.
The service is completely standardised, with customers having little or no ability to customise the
service. The terms of the contract are determined and drawn up unilaterally by the cloud service
provider, provided to the customer on a “take it or leave it basis”. Company X decides to make use of
the cloud provider to store personal data concerning its customers. Company X will still be considered
a controller, given its decision to make use of this particular cloud service provider in order to process
personal data for its purposes. Insofar as the cloud service provider does not process the personal data
for its own purposes and stores the data solely on behalf of its customers and in accordance with
instructions, the service provider will be considered as a processor.

12 See e.g., Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Opinion 10/2006 on the processing of personal data by the
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT), 22 November 2006, WP128, p. 11.
Adopted - After public consultation

13

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

2.1.3 “Alone or jointly with others”
Article 4(7) recognizes that the “purposes and means” of the processing might be determined by more
than one actor. It states that the controller is the actor who “alone or jointly with others” determines
the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing.  This  means  that  several  different  entities  may  act  as
controllers  for  the  same  processing,  with  each of  them  then  being  subject  to the  applicable  data
protection provisions. Correspondingly, an organisation can still be a controller even if it does not make
all the decisions as to purposes and means. The criteria for joint controllership and the extent to which
two or more actors jointly exercise control may take different forms, as clarified later on.13

2.1.4 “Purposes and means”
The fourth building block of the controller definition refers to the object of the controller’s influence,
namely  the  “purposes  and means”  of  the  processing.  It  represents  the  substantive  part  of  the
controller concept: what a party should determine in order to qualify as controller.

Dictionaries define “purpose” as “an anticipated outcome that is intended or that guides your planned
actions” and “means” as “how a result is obtained or an end is achieved”.

The GDPR establishes that data must be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and
not further processed in a way incompatible with those purposes. Determination of the "purposes" of
the processing and the "means" to achieve them is therefore particularly important.

Determining the purposes and the means amounts to deciding respectively the "why" and the "how"
of  the  processing:14 given  a  particular  processing  operation,  the  controller  is  the  actor  who  has
determined why the  processing  is  taking  place  (i.e.,  “to  what  end”;  or  “what  for”)  and how this
objective shall be reached (i.e. which means shall be employed to attain the objective). A natural or
legal person who exerts such influence over the processing of personal data, thereby participates in
the determination of the purposes and means of that processing in accordance with the definition in
Article 4(7) GDPR.15

The controller must decide on both purpose and means of the processing as described below. As a
result, the controller cannot settle with only determining the purpose. It must also make decisions
about the means of the processing. Conversely, the party acting as processor can never determine the
purpose of the processing.

In practice, if a controller engages a processor to carry out the processing on its behalf, it often means
that the processor shall be able to make certain decisions of its own on how to carry out the processing.
The EDPB recognizes that some margin of manoeuvre may exist for the processor also to be able to
make some decisions in relation to the processing. In this perspective, there is a need to provide
guidance about which level of influence on the "why" and the "how"  should entail the qualification
of an entity as a controller and to what extent a processor may make decisions of its own.

38. When one entity clearly determines purposes and means, entrusting another entity with processing
activities that amount to the execution of its detailed instructions, the situation is straightforward, and
there is no doubt that the second entity should be regarded as a processor, whereas the first entity is
the controller.

13 See Part I, Section 3 (“Definition of joint controllers”).

14 See  also  the  Opinion  of  Advocate  General  Bot  in Wirtschaftsakademie,  C‑210/16,  ECLI:EU:C:2017:796,

paragraph 46.
15 Judgment in Jehovah’s witnesses, C-25/17, ECLI:EU:C:2018:551, paragraph 68.
Adopted - After public consultation

14

39.

40.

Essential vs. non-essential means

The question is where to draw the line between decisions that are reserved to the controller and
decisions that can be left to the discretion of the processor. Decisions on the purpose of the processing
are clearly always for the controller to make.

As regards the determination of means, a distinction can be made between essential and non-essential
means.  “Essential  means”  are  traditionally  and  inherently  reserved  to  the  controller.  While  non-
essential means can also be determined by the processor, essential means are to be determined by
the controller. “Essential means” are means that are closely linked to the purpose and the scope of the
processing, such as the type of personal data which are processed (“which data shall be processed?”),
the duration of the processing (“for how long shall they be processed?”), the categories of recipients
(“who shall have access to them?”) and the categories of data subjects (“whose personal data are being
processed?”). Together with the purpose of processing, the essential means are also closely linked to
the question of whether the processing is lawful, necessary and proportionate. “Non-essential means”
concern more practical aspects of implementation, such as the choice for a particular type of hard- or
software or the detailed security measures which may be left to the processor to decide on.

Example: Payroll administration
Employer A hires another company to administer the payment of salaries to its employees. Employer
A gives clear instructions on who to pay, what amounts, by what date, by which bank, how long the
data shall be stored, what data should be disclosed to the tax authority etc. In this case, the processing
of  data  is  carried  out  for  Company  A’s  purpose  to  pay  salaries  to  its  employees  and  the  payroll
administrator  may  not  use  the  data  for  any  purpose  of  its  own.  The  way  in  which  the  payroll
administrator should carry out the processing is in essence clearly and tightly defined. Nevertheless,
the payroll administrator may decide on certain detailed matters around the processing such as which
software to use, how to distribute access within its own organisation etc. This does not alter its role as
processor  as  long  as  the  administrator  does  not  go  against  or  beyond  the  instructions  given  by
Company A.

Example: Bank payments
As part of the instructions from Employer A, the payroll administration transmits information to Bank
B so that they can carry out the actual payment to the employees of Employer A. This activity includes
processing of personal data by Bank B which it carries out for the purpose of performing banking
activity. Within this activity, the bank decides independently from Employer A on which data that have
to be processed to provide the service, for how long the data must be stored etc. Employer A cannot
have any influence on the purpose and means of Bank B’s processing of data. Bank B is therefore to be
seen  as  a  controller  for  this  processing  and  the  transmission  of  personal  data  from  the  payroll
administration  is  to  be  regarded  as  a  disclosure  of  information  between  two  controllers,  from
Employer A to Bank B.

Example: Accountants
Employer  A  also  hires  Accounting  firm  C  to  carry  out  audits  of  their  bookkeeping  and  therefore
transfers data about financial transactions (including personal data) to C. Accounting firm C processes
these data without detailed instructions from A. Accounting firm C decides itself, in accordance with
legal provisions regulating the tasks of the auditing activities carried out by C, that the data it collects

Adopted - After public consultation

15

41.

will only be processed for the purpose of auditing A and it determines what data it needs to have,
which categories of persons that need to be registered, how long the data shall be kept and what
technical means to use. Under these circumstances, Accounting firm C is to be regarded as a controller
of its own when performing its auditing services for A. However, this assessment may be different
depending on the level of instructions from A. In a situation where the law does not lay down specific
obligations for the accounting firm and the client company provides very detailed instructions on the
processing, the accounting firm would indeed be acting as a processor. A distinction could be made
between a situation where the processing is - in accordance with the laws regulating this profession -
done as part of the accounting firm’s core activity and where the processing is a more limited, ancillary
task that is carried out as part of the client company’s activity.

Example: Hosting services
Employer A hires hosting service H to store encrypted data on H’s servers. The hosting service H does
not determine whether the data it hosts are personal data nor does it process data in any other way
than storing it on its servers. As storage is one example of a personal data processing activity, the
hosting service H is processing personal data on employer A’s behalf and is therefore a processor.
Employer A must provide the necessary instructions to H and a data processing agreement according
to  Article  28  must  be  concluded,  requiring  H  to  implement  technical  and  organisational  security
measures. H must assist A in ensuring that the necessary security measures are taken and notify it in
case of any personal data breach.

Even though decisions on non-essential means can be left to the processor, the controller must still
stipulate  certain  elements  in  the  processor  agreement,  such  as – in  relation  to  the  security
requirement, e.g. an instruction to take all measures required pursuant to Article 32 of the GDPR. The
agreement must also state that the processor shall assist the controller in ensuring compliance with,
for example, Article 32. In any event, the controller remains responsible for the implementation of
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the
processing is performed in accordance with the Regulation (Article 24). In doing so, the controller must
take into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing as well as the risks for
rights and freedoms of natural persons. For this reason, the controller must be fully informed about
the means that are used so that it can take an informed decision in this regard.  In order for the
controller to be able to demonstrate the lawfulness of the processing, it is advisable to document at
the minimum necessary technical and organisational measures in the contract or other legally binding
instrument between the controller and the processor.

Example: Call centre
Company X decides to outsource a part of its customer service relations to a call centre. The call centre
receives identifiable data about customer purchases, as well contact information. The call centre uses
its  own  software  and  IT  infrastructure  to  manage  the  personal  data  concerning  Company  X’s
customers. Company X signs a processor agreement with the provider of the call centre in accordance
with  Article  28  GDPR,  after  determining  that  the  technical  and  organisational  security  measures
proposed by the call centre are appropriate for the risks concerned and that the call centre will only
process the personal data for the purposes of Company X and in accordance with its instructions.
Company X does not provide any further instructions to the call centre as to specific software to be
used nor any detailed instructions regarding the specific security measures to be implemented. In this
example, Company X remains a controller, despite the fact that the call centre has determined certain
non-essential means of the processing.

Adopted - After public consultation

16

42.

43.

44.

45.

2.1.5 “Of the processing of personal data”
The purposes and means determined by the controller must relate to the “processing of personal
data”. Article 4(2) GDPR defines the processing of personal data as “any operation or set of operations
which is performed on personal data or on sets of personal data”. As a result, the concept of a controller
can be linked either to a single processing operation or to a set of operations. In practice, this may
mean that the control exercised by a particular entity may extend to the entirety of processing at issue
but may also be limited to a particular stage in the processing.16

In practice, the processing of personal data involving several actors may be divided into several smaller
processing operations for which each actor could be considered to determine the purpose and means
individually.  On the other hand, a sequence or set of processing operations involving several actors
may also take place for the same purpose(s), in which case it is possible that the processing involves
one or more joint controllers. In other words, it is possible that at “micro-level” the different processing
operations  of  the  chain  appear  as  disconnected,  as  each  of  them  may  have  a  different  purpose.
However, it is necessary to double check whether at “macro-level” these processing operations should
not be considered as a “set of operations” pursuing a joint purpose using jointly defined means.

Anyone who decides to process data must consider whether this includes personal data and, if so,
what the obligations are according to the GDPR. An actor will be considered a “controller” even if it
does not deliberately target personal data as such or has wrongfully assessed that it does not process
personal data.

It is not necessary that the controller actually has access to the data that is being processed.17 Someone
who outsources a processing activity and in doing so, has a determinative influence on the purpose
and (essential) means of the processing (e.g. by adjusting parameters of a service in such a way that it
influences whose personal data shall be processed), is to be regarded as controller even though he or
she will never have actual access to the data.

Example: Market research 1
Company ABC wishes to understand which types of consumers are most likely to be interested in its
products and contracts a service provider, XYZ, to obtain the relevant information.

Company  ABC  instructs  XYZ  on  what  type  of  information  it  is  interested  in  and  provides  a  list  of
questions to be asked to those participating in the market research.

Company ABC receives only statistical information (e.g., identifying consumer trends per region) from
XYZ and does not have access to the personal data itself. Nevertheless, Company ABC decided that the
processing should take place, the processing is carried out for its purpose and its activity and it has
provided XYZ with detailed instructions on what information to collect. Company ABC is therefore still
to be considered a controller with respect of the processing of personal data that takes place in order
to deliver the information it has requested. XYZ may only process the data for the purpose given by
Company ABC and according to its detailed instructions and is therefore to be regarded as processor.

16 Judgment in Fashion ID, C‑40/17, ECLI:EU:C:2019:629, paragraph 74: “(A)s the Advocate General noted, [...-] it

appears that a natural or legal person may be a controller, within the meaning of Article 2(d) of Directive 95/46,
jointly with others only in respect of operations involving the processing of personal data for which it determines
jointly  the  purposes  and  means.  By  contrast,  [...]  that  natural  or  legal  person  cannot  be  considered  to  be  a
controller, within the meaning of that provision, in the context of operations that precede or are subsequent in
the overall chain of processing for which that person does not determine either the purposes or the means”.
17 Judgment in Wirtschaftsakademie, C-201/16, ECLI :EU :C :2018 :388, paragraph 38.
Adopted - After public consultation

17

Example: Market research 2
Company ABC wishes to understand which types of consumers are most likely to be interested in its
products. Service provider XYZ is a market research agency which has collected information about
consumer interests through a variety of questionnaires which pertain to a wide variety of products and
services. Service provider XYZ has collected and analysed this data independently, according to its own
methodology  without  receiving  any  instructions  from  Company  ABC.  To  answer  Company  ABC’s
request, service provider XYZ will generate statistical information, but does so without receiving any
further instructions about which personal data should be processed or how to process it in order to
generate these statistics. In this example, service provider XYZ acts as the sole controller, processing
personal  data  for  market  research  purposes,  autonomously  determining  the  means  for doing  so.
Company ABC does not have any particular role or responsibility under data protection law in relation
to these processing activities, as Company ABC receives anonymised statistics and is not involved in
determining the purposes and means of the processing.

3 DEFINITION OF JOINT CONTROLLERS

3.1 Definition of joint controllers

46.

The qualification as joint controllers may arise where more than one actor is involved in the processing.

47. While the concept is not new and already existed under Directive 95/46/EC, the GDPR, in its Article 26,
introduces specific rules for joint controllers and sets a framework to govern their relationship. In
addition, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) in recent rulings has brought clarifications
on this concept and its implications.18

48.

49.

50.

As  further  elaborated  in  Part  II,  section  2,  the  qualification  of  joint  controllers  will  mainly  have
consequences in terms of allocation of obligations for compliance with data protection rules and in
particular with respect to the rights of individuals.

In this perspective, the following section aims to provide guidance on the concept of joint controllers
in accordance with the GDPR and the CJEU case law to assist entities in determining where they may
be acting as joint controllers and applying the concept in practice.
3.2 Existence of joint controllership

3.2.1 General considerations
The  definition  of  a  controller  in  Article  4  (7)  GDPR  forms  the  starting  point  for  determining  joint
controllership.  The  considerations  in  this  section  are  thus directly  related  to  and  supplement  the

18 See in particular, Unabhängiges Landeszentrum für Datenschutz Schleswig-Holstein v Wirtschaftsakademie, (C-
210/16), Tietosuojavaltuutettu v Jehovan todistajat — uskonnollinen yhdyskunta (C-25/17), Fashion ID GmbH &
Co. KG v Verbraucherzentrale NRW eV (C-40/17). To be noted that while these judgments were issued by the
CJEU on the interpretation of the concept of joint controllers under Directive 95/46/CE, they remain valid in the
context of the GDPR, given that the elements determining this concept under the GDPR remain the same as
under the Directive.

Adopted - After public consultation

18

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

considerations in the section on the concept of controller. As a consequence, the assessment of joint
controllership should mirror the assessment of "single" control developed above.

Article 26 GDPR, which reflects the definition in Article 4 (7) GDPR, provides that “[w]here two or more
controllers jointly determine the purposes and means of processing, they shall be joint controllers.” In
broad terms, joint controllership exists with regard to a specific processing activity when different
parties determine jointly the purpose and means of this processing activity. Therefore, assessing the
existence of joint controllers requires examining whether the determination of purposes and means
that characterize a controller are decided by more than one party. “Jointly” must be interpreted as
meaning “together with” or “not alone”, in different forms and combinations, as explained below.

The assessment of joint controllership should be carried out on a factual, rather than a formal, analysis
of  the  actual  influence  on  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing.  All  existing  or  envisaged
arrangements should be checked against the factual circumstances regarding the relationship between
the parties. A merely formal criterion would not be sufficient for at least two reasons: in some cases,
the formal appointment of a joint controller - laid down for example by law or in a contract - would be
absent;  in  other  cases,  it  may  be  that  the  formal  appointment  does  not  reflect  the  reality  of  the
arrangements, by formally entrusting the role of controller to an entity which actually is not in the
position to "determine" the purposes and means of the processing.

Not all processing involving several entities give rise to joint controllership. The overarching criterion
for joint controllership to exist is the joint participation of two or more entities in the determination
of the purposes and means of a processing. More specifically, joint participation needs to include the
determination of purposes on the one hand and the determination of means on the other hand. If each
of  these  elements  are  determined  by  all  entities  concerned,  they  should  be  considered  as  joint
controllers of the processing at issue.

3.2.2 Assessment of joint participation
Joint participation in the determination of purposes and means implies that more than one entity have
a decisive influence over whether and how the processing takes place. In practice, joint participation
can take several different forms. For example, joint participation can take the form of a common
decision taken by two or more entities or result from converging decisions by two or more entities
regarding the purposes and essential means.

Joint  participation  through  a common  decision means  deciding  together  and  involves  a  common
intention in accordance with the most common understanding of the term “jointly” referred to in
Article 26 of the GDPR.

The situation of joint participation through converging decisions results more particularly from the
case law of the CJEU on the concept of joint controllers. Decisions can be considered as converging on
purposes and means if they complement each other and are necessary for the processing to take
place in such manner that they have a tangible impact on the determination of the purposes and
means of the processing. It should be highlighted that the notion of converging decisions needs to be
considered  in  relation to  the  purposes  and means of  the  processing  but  not other  aspects of the
commercial relationship between the parties.19 As such, an important criterion to identify converging
decisions  in  this  context is  whether  the  processing  would  not  be  possible  without  both  parties’
participation  in  the  purposes  and  means  in  the  sense  that  the  processing  by  each  party  is

19 Indeed, all commercial arrangements involve converging decisions as part of the process by which an
agreement is reached.
Adopted - After public consultation

19

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

inseparable, i.e. inextricably linked. The situation of joint controllers acting on the basis of converging
decisions  should  however  be  distinguished  from  the  case  of  a  processor,  since  the  latter – while
participating in the performance of a processing – does not process the data for its own purposes but
carries out the processing on behalf of the controller.

The fact that one of the parties does not have access to personal data processed is not sufficient to
exclude  joint  controllership.20 For  example,  in Jehovah’s  Witnesses,  the  CJEU  considered  that  a
religious  community  must  be  considered  a  controller,  jointly  with  its  members  who  engage  in
preaching, of the processing of personal data carried out by the latter in the context of door-to-door
preaching.21 The CJEU considered that it was not necessary that the community had access to the data
in  question,  or  to  establish  that  that  community  had  given  its  members  written  guidelines  or
instructions in relation to the data processing.22 The community participated in the determination of
purposes and means by organising and coordinating the activities of its members, which helped to
achieve  the  objective  of  the  Jehovah’s  Witnesses  community.23 In  addition,  the  community  had
knowledge on a general level of the fact that such processing was carried out in order to spread its
faith.24

It is also important to underline, as clarified by the CJEU, that an entity will be considered as joint
controller with the other(s) only in respect of those operations for which it determines, jointly with
others, the means and the purposes of the same data processing in particular in case of converging
decisions. If one of these entities decides alone the purposes and means of operations that precede or
are subsequent in the chain of processing, this entity must be considered as the sole controller of this
preceding or subsequent operation.25

The  existence  of  joint  responsibility  does  not  necessarily  imply  equal  responsibility  of  the  various
operators involved in the processing of personal data. On the contrary, the CJEU has clarified that those
operators may be involved at different stages of that processing and to different degrees so that the
level of responsibility of each of them must be assessed with regard to all the relevant circumstances
of the particular case.

Jointly determined purpose(s)

3.2.2.1
Joint controllership exists when entities involved in the same processing carry out the processing for
jointly defined purposes. This will be the case if the entities involved process the data for the same, or
common, purposes.

In addition, when the entities do not have the same purpose for the processing, joint controllership
may also, in light of the CJEU case law, be established when the entities involved pursue purposes
which are closely linked or complementary. Such may be the case, for example, when there is a mutual
benefit  arising  from  the  same  processing  operation,  provided  that  each  of  the  entities  involved
participates in the determination of the purposes and means of the relevant processing operation.
However, the notion of mutual benefit is not decisive and can only be an indication.. In Fashion ID, for
example, the CJEU clarified that a website operator participates in the determination of the purposes

20 Judgment in Wirtschaftsakademie, C-210/16, ECLI:EU:C:2018:388, paragraph 38.
21 Judgment in Jehovah’s witnesses, C-25/17, ECLI:EU:C:2018:551, paragraph 75.
22 Ibid.
23 Ibid, paragraph 71.
24 Ibid.
25 Judgment in Fashion ID, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:2018:1039, paragraph 74 “By contrast, and without prejudice to any
civil liability provided for in national law in this respect, that natural or legal person cannot be considered to be a
controller, within the meaning of that provision, in the context of operations that precede or are subsequent in
the overall chain of processing for which that person does not determine either the purposes or the means”.
Adopted - After public consultation

20

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.

67.

(and means) of the processing by embedding a social plug-in on a website in order to optimize the
publicity of its goods by making them more visible on the social network. The CJEU considered that the
processing operations at issue were performed in the economic interests of both the website operator
and the provider of the social plug-in.26

Likewise,  as  noted  by  the  CJEU  in Wirtschaftsakademie,  the  processing  of  personal  data  through
statistics of visitors to a fan page is intended to enable Facebook to improve its system of advertising
transmitted via its network and to enable the administrator of the fan page to obtain statistics to
manage the promotion of its activity.27 Each entity in this case pursues its own interest but both parties
participate in the determination of the purposes (and means) of the processing of personal data as
regards the visitors to the fan page.28

In  this  respect,  it  is  important  to  highlight  that  the  mere  existence  of  a  mutual  benefit  (for  ex.
commercial) arising from a processing activity does not give rise to joint controllership. If the entity
involved in the processing does not pursue any purpose(s) of its own in relation to the processing
activity, but is merely being paid for services rendered, it is acting as a processor rather than as a joint
controller.

Jointly determined means

3.2.2.2
Joint controllership also requires that two or more entities have exerted influence over the means of
the processing. This does not mean that, for joint controllership to exist, each entity involved needs in
all cases to determine all of the means. Indeed, as clarified by the CJEU, different entities may be
involved at different stages of that processing and to different degrees. Different joint controllers may
therefore define the means of the processing to a different extent, depending on who is effectively in
a position to do so.

It may also be the case that one of the entities involved provides the means of the processing and
makes it available for personal data processing activities by other entities. The entity who decides to
make  use  of  those  means  so  that  personal  data  can  be  processed  for  a  particular  purpose  also
participates in the determination of the means of the processing.

This scenario can notably arise in case of platforms, standardised tools, or other infrastructure allowing
the parties to process the same personal data and which have been set up in a certain way by one of
the parties to be used by others that can also decide how to set it up.29 The use of an already existing
technical system does not exclude joint controllership when users of the system can decide on the
processing of personal data to be performed in this context.

As an example of this, the CJEU held in Wirtschaftsakademie that the administrator of a fan page
hosted  on  Facebook,  by  defining  parameters  based  on  its  target  audience  and  the  objectives  of
managing and promoting its activities, must be regarded as taking part in the determination of the
means of the processing of personal data related to the visitors of its fan page.

Furthermore,  the  choice  made  by  an  entity  to  use  for  its  own  purposes  a  tool  or  other  system
developed by another entity, allowing the processing of personal data, will likely amount to a joint
decision on the means of that processing by those entities. This follows from the Fashion ID case where

26 Judgment in Fashion ID, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:2018:1039, paragraph 80.
27 Judgment in Wirtschaftsakademie, C-210/16, ECLI:EU:C:2018:388, paragraph 34.
28 Judgment in Wirtschaftsakademie, C-210/16, ECLI:EU:C:2018:388, paragraph 39.
29 The provider of the system can be a joint controller if the criteria mentioned above are met, i.e. if the provider
participates in the determination of purposes and means. Otherwise, the provider should be considered as a
processor.
Adopted - After public consultation

21

68.

the CJEU concluded, that by embedding on its website the Facebook Like button made available by
Facebook to website operators, Fashion ID has exerted a decisive influence in respect of the operations
involving the collection and transmission of the personal data of the visitors of its website to Facebook
and had thus jointly determined with Facebook the means of that processing.30
It is important to underline that the use of a common data processing system or infrastructure will
not  in  all  cases  lead  to  qualify  the  parties involved  as  joint  controllers, in  particular  where  the
processing they carry out is separable and could be performed by one party without intervention from
the other or where the provider is a processor in the absence of any purpose of its own (the existence
of  a  mere  commercial  benefit  for  the  parties  involved  is  not  sufficient  to  qualify  as  a  purpose  of
processing).

Example: Travel agency
A travel agency sends personal data of its customers to the airline and a chain of hotels, with a view to
making reservations for a travel package. The airline and the hotel confirm the availability of the seats
and rooms requested. The travel agency issues the travel documents and vouchers for its customers.
Each of the actors processes the data for carrying out their own activities and using their own means.
In this case, the travel agency, the airline and the hotel are three different data controllers processing
the data for their own and separate purposes and there is no joint controllership.

The travel agency, the hotel chain and the airline then decide to participate jointly in setting up an
internet-based common platform for the common purpose of providing package travel deals. They
agree on the essential means to be used, such as which data will be stored, how reservations will be
allocated  and  confirmed,  and  who  can  have  access  to  the  information  stored.  Furthermore,  they
decide to share the data of their customers in order to carry out joint marketing actions. In this case,
the travel agency, the airline and the hotel chain, jointly determine why and how personal data of their
respective  customers  are  processed  and  will  therefore  be  joint  controllers  with  regard  to  the
processing  operations  relating  to  the  common  internet-based  booking  platform  and  the  joint
marketing  actions.  However,  each  of  them  would  still  retain  sole  control  with  regard  to  other
processing activities outside the internet-based common platform.

Example: Research project by institutes
Several research institutes decide to participate in a specific joint research project and to use to that
end the existing platform of one of the institutes involved in the project. Each institute feeds personal
data it already holds into the platform for the purpose of the joint research and uses the data provided
by others through the platform for carrying out the research. In this case, all institutes qualify as joint
controllers for the personal data processing that is done by storing and disclosing information from
this platform since they have decided together the purpose of the processing and the means to be
used (the existing platform). Each of the institutes however is a separate controller for any other
processing that may be carried out outside the platform for their respective purposes.

Example: Marketing operation
Companies A and B have launched a co-branded product C and wish to organise an event to promote
this  product.  To  that  end,  they  decide  to  share  data  from  their  respective  clients  and prospects

30 Judgment in Fashion ID, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:2018:1039, paragraphs 77-79.

Adopted - After public consultation

22

database and decide on the list of invitees to the event on this basis. They also agree on the modalities
for  sending  the  invitations  to  the  event,  how  to  collect  feedback  during  the  event  and  follow-up
marketing actions. Companies A and B can be considered as joint controllers for the processing of
personal data related to the organisation of the promotional event as they decide together on the
jointly defined purpose and essential means of the data processing in this context.

Example: Clinical Trials31
A health care provider (the investigator) and a university (the sponsor) decide to launch together a
clinical trial with the same purpose. They collaborate together to the drafting of the study protocol
(i.e.  purpose,  methodology/design  of  the  study,  data  to  be  collected,  subject  exclusion/inclusion
criteria, database reuse (where relevant) etc.). They may be considered as joint controllers, for this
clinical trial as they jointly determine and agree on the same purpose and the essential means of the
processing. The collection of personal data from the medical record of the patient for the purpose of
research is to be distinguished from the storage and use of the same data for the purpose of patient
care, for which the health care provider remains the controller.

In the event that the investigator does not participate to the drafting of the protocol (he just accepts
the protocol already elaborated by the sponsor), and the protocol is only designed by the sponsor, the
investigator should be considered as a processor and the sponsor as the controller for this clinical trial.

Example: Headhunters
Company  X  helps  Company  Y  in  recruiting  new  staff- with  its  famous  value-added  service  "global
matchz". Company X looks for suitable candidates both among the CVs received directly by Company
Y and those it already has in its own database. Such database is created and managed by Company X
on its own. This ensures that Company X enhances the matching between job offers and job seekers,
thus increasing its revenues. Even though they have not formally taken a decision together, Companies
X and Y jointly participate to the processing with the purpose of finding suitable candidates based on
converging decisions: the decision to create and manage the service “global matchz” for Company X
and the decision of Company Y to enrich the database with the CVs it directly receives. Such decisions
complement  each  other,  are  inseparable  and  necessary  for  the  processing  of  finding  suitable
candidates  to  take  place.  Therefore,  in  this  particular  case  they  should  be  considered  as  joint
controllers of such processing. However, Company X is the sole controller of the processing necessary
to manage its database and Company Y is the sole controller of the subsequent hiring processing for
its own purpose (organisation of interviews, conclusion of the contract and management of HR data).

Example: Analysis of health data
Company ABC, the developer of a blood pressure monitoring app and Company XYZ, a provider of apps
for medical professionals, both wish to examine how blood pressure changes can help predict certain
diseases. The companies decide to set up a joint project and reach out to Hospital DEF to become
involved as well.

The personal data that will be processed in this project consists of personal data which Company ABC,
Hospital DEF and Company XYZ are separately processing as individual controllers. The decision to

31 The EDPB plans to provide further guidance in relation to clinical trials in the context of its forthcoming
Guidelines on processing of personal data for medical and scientific research purposes.
Adopted - After public consultation

23

process this data to assess blood pressure changes is taken jointly by the three actors. Company ABC,
Hospital DEF and Company XYZ have jointly determined the purposes of processing. Company XYZ
takes the initiative to propose the essential means of processing. Both Company ABC and the Hospital
DEF accept these essential means after they as well were involved in developing some of the features
of the app so that the results can be sufficiently used by them. The three organizations thus agree on
having a common purpose for the processing which is the assessment of how blood pressure changes
can help predict certain diseases. Once the research is completed, Company ABC, Hospital DEF and
Company XYZ may benefit from the assessment by using its results in their own activities. For all these
reasons, they qualify as joint controllers for this specific joint processing.

If Company XYZ had been simply asked by the others to perform this assessment without having any
purpose of their own and merely been processing data on behalf of the others, Company XYZ would
qualify as a processor even if it was entrusted with the determination of the non-essential means.

69.

70.

3.2.3 Situations where there is no joint controllership
The  fact  that  several  actors  are  involved  in  the  same  processing  does  not  mean  that  they  are
necessarily acting as joint controllers of such processing. Not all kind of partnerships, cooperation or
collaboration  imply  qualification  of  joint  controllers  as such  qualification  requires  a  case-by-case
analysis of each processing at stake and the precise role of each entity with respect to each processing.
The cases below provide non-exhaustive examples of situations where there is no joint controllership.

For example,  the  exchange  of  the  same  data  or  set  of  data  between  two  entities  without  jointly
determined  purposes  or  jointly  determined  means  of  processing  should  be  considered  as  a
transmission of data between separate controllers.

Example: Transmission of employee data to tax authorities
A  company  collects  and  processes  personal  data  of  its  employees  with  the  purpose  of  managing
salaries,  health  insurances,  etc.    A  law  imposes  an  obligation  on  the  company  to  send  all  data
concerning salaries to the tax authorities, with a view to reinforce fiscal control.

In this case, even though both the company and the tax authorities process the same data concerning
salaries, the lack of jointly determined purposes and means with regard to this data processing will
result in qualifying the two entities as two separate data controllers.

71.

Joint controllership may also be excluded in a situation where several entities use a shared database
or a common infrastructure, if each entity independently determines its own purposes.

Example: Marketing operations in a group of companies using a shared database:
A group of companies uses the same database for the management of clients and prospects. Such
database  is  hosted  on  the  servers  of  the  mother  company  who  is  therefore  a  processor  of  the
companies with respect to the storage of the data. Each entity of the group enters the data of its own
clients and prospects and processes such data for its own purposes only. Also, each entity decides
independently on the access, the retention periods, the correction or deletion of their clients and
prospects’ data. They cannot access or use each other’s data. The mere fact that these companies use
a shared group database does not as such entail joint controllership. Under these circumstances, each
company is thus a separate controller.

Example: Independent controllers when using a shared infrastructure

Adopted - After public consultation

24

Company XYZ hosts a database and makes it available to other companies to process and host personal
data about their employees. Company XYZ is a processor in relation to the processing and storage of
other  companies’  employees  as  these  operations  are  performed  on  behalf  and  according  to  the
instructions of these other companies. In addition, the other companies process the data without any
involvement from Company XYZ and for purposes which are not in any way shared by Company XYZ.

72.

Also, there can be situations where various actors successively process the same personal data in a
chain of operations, each of these actors having an independent purpose and independent means in
their part of the chain. In the absence of joint participation in the determination of the purposes and
means of the same processing operation or set of operations, joint controllership has to be excluded
and the various actors must be regarded as successive independent controllers.

Example: Statistical analysis for a task of public interest
A public authority (Authority A) has the legal task of making relevant analysis and statistics on how the
country’s  employment  rate  develops.  To  do  that,  many  other  public  entities  are  legally  bound  to
disclose specific data to Authority A. Authority A decides to use a specific system to process the data,
including collection. This also means that the other units are obligated to use the system for their
disclosure of data. In this case, without prejudice to any attribution of roles by law, Authority A will be
the only controller of the processing for the purpose of analysis and statistics of the employment rate
processed in the system, because Authority A determines the purpose for the processing, and has
decided how the processing will be organised. Of course, the other public entities, as controllers for
their own processing activities, are responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the data they previously
processed, which they then disclose to Authority A.

4 DEFINITION OF PROCESSOR

73.

74.

75.

A processor is defined in Article 4 (8) as a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or another
body, which processes personal data on behalf of the controller. Similar to the definition of controller,
the definition of processor envisages a broad range of actors - it can be “a natural or legal person,
public authority, agency or other body”. This means that there is in principle no limitation as to which
type of actor might assume the role of a processor. It might be an organisation, but it might also be an
individual.

The GDPR lays down obligations directly applicable specifically to processors as further specified in
Part II section 1 of these guidelines. A processor can be held liable or fined in case of failure to comply
with such obligations or in case it acts outside or contrary to the lawful instructions of the controller.

Processing  of  personal  data  can  involve  multiple  processors.  For  example,  a  controller  may  itself
choose to directly engage multiple processors, by involving different processors at separate stages of
the processing (multiple processors). A controller might also decide to engage one processor, who in
turn - with  the  authorisation  of the  controller - engages  one  or  more  other  processors  (“sub
processor(s)”). The processing activity entrusted to the processor may be limited to a very specific task
or context or may be more general and extended.

76.

Two basic conditions for qualifying as processor are:

a) being a separate entity in relation to the controller and

b) processing personal data on the controller’s behalf.

Adopted - After public consultation

25

77.

78.

79.

80.

A separate entity means that the controller decides to delegate all or part of the processing activities
to an external organisation. Within a group of companies, one company can be a processor to another
company  acting  as  controller,  as  both  companies  are  separate  entities.  On  the  other  hand,  a
department within a company cannot be a processor to another department within the same entity.

If the controller decides to process data itself, using its own resources within its organisation, for
example through its own staff, this is not a processor situation. Employees and other persons that are
acting under the direct authority of the controller, such as temporarily employed staff, are not to be
seen  as  processors  since  they  will  process  personal  data  as  a  part  of  the  controller’s  entity.  In
accordance with Article 29, they are also bound by the controller’s instructions.

Processing personal data on the controller’s behalf firstly requires that the separate entity processes
personal  data  for  the  benefit  of  the  controller.  In  Article  4(2),  processing  is  defined  as  a  concept
including  a  wide  array  of  operations  ranging  from  collection,  storage  and  consultation  to  use,
dissemination or otherwise making available and destruction.. The concept of “processing” is further
described above under 2.1.5.

Secondly, the processing must be done on behalf of a controller but otherwise than under its direct
authority or control. Acting “on behalf of” means serving someone else’s interest and recalls the legal
concept of “delegation”. In the case of data protection law, a processor is called to implement the
instructions given by the controller at least with regard to the purpose of the processing and the
essential elements of the means. The lawfulness of the processing according to Article 6, and if relevant
Article 9, of the Regulation will be derived from the controller’s activity and the processor must not
process the data otherwise than according to the controller’s instructions. Even so, as described above,
the controller’s instructions may still leave a certain degree of discretion about how to best serve the
controller’s interests, allowing the processor to choose the most suitable technical and organisational
means.32

81.

Acting  “on  behalf  of”  also  means  that  the  processor  may  not  carry  out  processing  for  its  own
purpose(s).  As  provided  in  Article  28(10),  a  processor  infringes  the  GDPR  by  going  beyond  the
controller’s instructions and starting to determine its own purposes and means of processing. The
processor will be considered a controller in respect of that processing and may be subject to sanctions
for going beyond the controller’s instructions.

Example: Service provider referred to as data processor but acting as controller
Service  provider  MarketinZ  provides  promotional  advertisement  and  direct  marketing  services  to
various companies. Company GoodProductZ concludes a contract with MarketinZ, according to which
the latter company provides commercial advertising for GoodProductZ customers and is referred to as
data processor. However, MarketinZ decides to use GoodProducts customer database also for other
purposes  than  advertising  for  GoodProducts,  such  as  developing  their  own  business  activity.  The
decision to add an additional purpose to the one for which the personal data were transferred converts
MarketinZ into a data controller for this set of processing operations and their processing for this
purpose would constitute an infringement of the GDPR.

82.

The  EDPB  recalls  that  not  every  service  provider  that  processes  personal  data  in  the  course  of
delivering a service is a “processor” within the meaning of the GDPR. The role of a processor does not
stem from the nature of an entity that is processing data but from its concrete activities in a specific
context. In other words, the same entity may act at the same time as a controller for certain processing

32 See Part I, sub-section 2.1.4 describing the distinction between essential and non-essential means.
Adopted - After public consultation

26

operations and as a processor for others, and the qualification as controller or processor has to be
assessed with regard to specific sets of data or operations. The nature of the service will determine
whether the processing activity amounts to processing of personal data on behalf of the controller
within the meaning of the GDPR. In practice, where the provided service is not specifically targeted at
processing personal data or where such processing does not constitute a key element of the service,
the service provider may be in a position to independently determine the purposes and means of that
processing which is required in order to provide the service. In that situation, the service provider is to
be seen as a separate controller and not as a processor.33 A case-by-case analysis remains necessary,
however, in order to ascertain the degree of influence each entity effectively has in determining the
purposes and means of the processing.

Example: Taxi service
A taxi service offers an online platform which allows companies to book a taxi to transport employees
or  guests  to  and  from  the  airport.  When  booking  a taxi,  Company  ABC  specifies  the  name of the
employee that should be picked up from the airport so the driver can confirm the employee’s identity
at the moment of pick-up. In this case, the taxi service processes personal data of the employee as part
of its service to Company ABC, but the processing as such is not the target of the service. The taxi
service has designed the online booking platform as part of developing its own business activity to
provide transportation services, without any instructions from Company ABC. The taxi service also
independently determines the categories of data it collects and how long it retains. The taxi service
therefore acts as a controller in its own right, notwithstanding the fact that the processing takes place
following a request for service from Company ABC.

83.

The EDPB notes that a service provider may still be acting as a processor even if the processing of
personal data is not the main or primary object of the service, provided that the customer of the service
still determines the purposes and means of the processing in practice. When considering whether or
not  to  entrust  the  processing  of  personal  data  to  a  particular  service  provider,  controllers  should
carefully assess whether the service provider in question allows them to exercise a sufficient degree
of control, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the
potential risks for data subjects.

Example: Call center
Company X outsources its client support to Company Y who provides a call center in order to help
Company X’s clients with their questions. The client support service means that Company Y has to have
access to Company X client data bases. Company Y can only access data in order to provide the support
that Company X has procured and they cannot process data for any other purposes than the ones
stated by Company X. Company Y is to be seen as a personal data processor and a processor agreement
must be concluded between Company X and Y.

Example: General IT support
Company Z hires an IT service provider to perform general support on its IT systems which include a
vast amount of personal data. The access to personal data is not the main object of the support service
but  it  is  inevitable  that  the  IT  service  provider  systematically  has  access  to  personal  data  when

33 See also Recital 81 of the GDPR, which refers to “entrusting a processor processing activities”, indicating that
the processing activity as such is an important part of the decision of the controller to ask a processor to process
personal data on its behalf.
Adopted - After public consultation

27

performing the service. Company Z therefore concludes that the IT service provider - being a separate
company and inevitably being required to process personal data even though this is not the main
objective  of the  service – is  to  be  regarded  as  a  processor.  A  processor  agreement  is  therefore
concluded with the IT service provider.

Example: IT-consultant fixing a software bug
Company ABC hires an IT-specialist from another company to fix a bug in a software that is being used
by the company. The IT-consultant is not hired to process personal data, and Company ABC determines
that any access to personal data will be purely incidental and therefore very limited in practice. ABC
therefore concludes that the IT-specialist is not a processor (nor a controller in its own right) and that
Company ABC will take appropriate measures according to Article 32 of the GDPR in order to prevent
the IT-consultant from processing personal data in an unauthorised manner.

84.

As stated above, nothing prevents the processor from offering a preliminarily defined service but the
controller must make the final decision to actively approve the way the processing is carried out, at
least insofar as concerns the essential means of the processing. As stated above, a processor has a
margin of manoeuvre as regards non-essential means, see above under sub-section 2.1.4.

Example:  Cloud service provider
A municipality has decided to use a cloud service provider for handling information in its school and
education  services.  The  cloud  service  provides  messaging  services,  videoconferences,  storage  of
documents, calendar management, word processing etc. and will entail processing of personal data
about school children and teachers. The cloud service provider has offered a standardized service that
is offered worldwide. The municipality however must make sure that the agreement in place complies
with Article 28(3) of the GDPR, that the personal data of which it is controller are processed for the
municipality’s purposes only. It must also make sure that their specific instructions on storage periods,
deletion of data etc. are respected by the cloud service provider regardless of what is generally offered
in the standardized service.

5 DEFINITION OF THIRD PARTY/RECIPIENT

85.

86.

The Regulation not only defines the concepts of controller and processor but also the concepts of
recipient and third party. As opposed to the concepts of controller and processor, the Regulation does
not lay down specific obligations or responsibilities for recipients and third parties. These can be said
to be relative concepts in the sense that they describe a relation to a controller or processor from a
specific perspective, e.g. a controller or processor discloses data to a recipient. A recipient of personal
data and a third party may well simultaneously be regarded as a controller or processor from other
perspectives.  For  example,  entities  that  are  to  be  seen  as  recipients  or  third  parties  from  one
perspective, are controllers for the processing for which they determine the purpose and means.
Third party
Article 4(10) defines a “third party” as a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or body other
than





the data subject,
the controller,
the processor and

Adopted - After public consultation

28



persons who, under the direct authority of the controller or processor, are authorised to process
personal data.

87.

The definition generally corresponds to the previous definition of “third party” in Directive 95/46/EC.

88. Whereas the terms “personal data”, “data subject”, “controller” and “processor” are defined in the
Regulation, the concept of “persons who, under the direct authority of the controller or processor, are
authorised to process personal data” is not. It is, however, generally understood as referring to persons
that belong to the legal entity of the controller or processor (an employee or a role highly comparable
to that of employees, e.g. interim staff provided via a temporary employment agency) but only insofar
as they are authorized to process personal data. An employee etc. who obtains access to data that he
or she is not authorised to access and for other purposes than that of the employer does not fall within
this category. Instead, this employee should be considered as a third party vis-à-vis the processing
undertaken by the employer. Insofar as the employee processes personal data for his or her own
purposes, distinct from those of his or her employer, he or she will then be considered a controller and
take on all the resulting consequences and liabilities in terms of personal data processing.34

89.

A third party thus refers to someone who, in the specific situation at hand, is not a data subject, a
controller, a processor or an employee. For example, the controller may hire a processor and instruct
it to transfer personal data to a third party. This third party will then be considered a controller in its
own right for the processing that it carries out for its own purposes. It should be noted that, within a
group of companies, a company other than the controller or the processor is a third party, even though
it belongs to the same group as the company who acts as controller or processor.

Example: Cleaning services
Company A concludes a contract with a cleaning service company to clean its offices. The cleaners are
not supposed to access or otherwise process personal data. Even though they may occasionally come
across such data when moving around in the office, they can carry out their task without accessing
data and they are contractually prohibited to access or otherwise process personal data that Company
A keeps as controller. The cleaners are not employed by Company A nor are they seen as being under
the direct authority of that company. There is no intention to engage the cleaning service company or
its employees to process personal data on Company A’s behalf. The cleaning service company and its
employees are therefore to be seen as a third party and the controller must make sure that there are
adequate security measures to prevent that they have access to data and lay down a confidentiality
duty in case they should accidentally come across personal data.

Example: Company groups – parent company and subsidiaries
Companies  X  and  Y  form  part  of  the  Group  Z.  Companies  X  and  Y  both  process  data  about  their
respective employees for employee administration purposes. At one point, the parent company ZZ
decides to request employee data from all subsidiaries in order to produce group wide statistics. When
transferring data from companies X and Y to ZZ, the latter is to be regarded as a third party regardless
of the fact that all companies are part of the same group. Company ZZ will be regarded as controller
for its processing of the data for statistical purposes.

34 The employer (as original controller) could nevertheless retain some responsibility in case the new processing
occurred because of a lack of adequate security measures.
Adopted - After public consultation

29

Recipient

90.

91.

92.

93.

Article 4(9) defines a “recipient” as a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or another body,
to which the personal data are disclosed, whether a third party or not. Public authorities are however
not to be seen as recipients when they receive personal data in the framework of a particular inquiry
in accordance with Union or Member State law (e.g. tax and customs authorities, financial investigation
units etc.)35

The definition generally corresponds to the previous definition of “recipient” in Directive 95/46/EC.

The definition covers anyone who receives personal data, whether they are a third party or not. For
example, when a controller sends personal data to another entity, either a processor or a third party,
this entity is a recipient. A third party recipient shall be considered a controller for any processing that
it carries out for its own purpose(s) after it receives the data.

Example: Disclosure of data between companies
The travel agency ExploreMore arranges travels on request from its individual customers. Within this
service, they send the customers’ personal data to airlines, hotels and organisations of excursions in
order for them to carry out their respective services. ExploreMore, the hotels, airlines and excursion
providers  are  each  to  be  seen  as  controllers  for  the  processing  that  they  carry  out  within  their
respective  services.  There  is  no  controller-processor  relation.  However,  the  airlines,  hotels  and
excursion providers are to be seen as recipients when receiving the personal data from ExploreMore.

PART II – CONSEQUENCES OF ATTRIBUTING DIFFERENT ROLES

1 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CONTROLLER AND PROCESSOR

A distinct new feature in the GDPR are the provisions that impose obligations directly upon processors.
For example, a processor must ensure that persons authorised to process the personal data have
committed themselves  to confidentiality  (Article  28(3));  a  processor must maintain  a  record  of  all
categories  of  processing  activities  (Article  30(2))  and  must  implement  appropriate  technical  and
organisational measures (Article 32). A processor must also designate a data protection officer under
certain  conditions  (Article  37)  and  has  a  duty  to  notify  the  controller  without  undue  delay  after
becoming aware of a personal data breach (Article 33(2)). Furthermore, the rules on transfers of data
to  third  countries  (Chapter V)  apply  to  processors  as  well  as  controllers.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB
considers  that  Article  28(3)  GDPR,  while  mandating  a  specific  content  for  the  necessary  contract
between controller and processor, imposes direct obligations upon processors, including the duty to
assist the controller in ensuring compliance.36
1.1 Choice of the processor

94.

The controller has the duty to use “only processors providing sufficient guarantees to implement
appropriate technical and organisational measures”, so that processing meets the requirements of the

35 See also Recital 31 of the GDPR
36 For  instance,  the  processor  should  assist  the  controller,  where  necessary  and  upon  request,  in  ensuring
compliance with obligations relating to data protection impact assessments (Recital 95 GDPR). This needs to be
reflected in the contract between the controller and the processor pursuant to Article 28(3)(f) GDPR.
Adopted - After public consultation

30

95.

96.

97.

98.

99.

GDPR - including for the security of processing - and ensures the protection of data subject rights.37
The controller is therefore responsible for assessing the sufficiency of the guarantees provided by the
processor and should be able to prove that it has taken all of the elements provided in the GDPR into
serious consideration.
The guarantees “provided” by the processor are those that the processor is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the controller, as those are the only ones that can effectively be taken into account
by the controller when assessing compliance with its obligations. Often this will require an exchange
of relevant documentation (e.g. privacy policy, terms of service, record of processing activities, records
management policy, information security policy, reports of external data protection audits, recognised
international certifications, like ISO 27000 series).

The controller’s assessment of whether the guarantees are sufficient is a form of risk assessment,
which will greatly depend on the type of processing entrusted to the processor and needs to be made
on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as
well as the risks for the rights and freedoms of natural persons. As a consequence, the EDPB cannot
provide  an  exhaustive  list  of  the  documents  or  actions  that  the  processor  needs  to  show  or
demonstrate  in  any  given  scenario,  as  this  largely  depends  on  the  specific  circumstances  of  the
processing.

The  following  elements38 should  be  taken  into  account  by  the  controller  in  order  to  assess  the
sufficiency of the guarantees: the processor’s expert knowledge (e.g. technical expertise with regard
to security measures and data breaches); the processor’s reliability; the processor’s resources. The
reputation of the processor on the market may also be a relevant factor for controllers to consider.

Furthermore, the adherence to an approved code of conduct or certification mechanism can be used
as an element by which sufficient guarantees can be demonstrated.39 The processors are therefore
advised to inform the controller as to this circumstance, as well as to any change in such adherence.

The obligation to use only processors “providing sufficient guarantees” contained in Article 28(1) GDPR
is a continuous obligation. It does not end at the moment where the controller and processor conclude
a  contract  or  other  legal  act.  Rather  the  controller  should,  at  appropriate  intervals,  verify  the
processor’s guarantees, including through audits and inspections where appropriate.40
1.2 Form of the contract or other legal act

100. Any processing of personal data by a processor must be governed by a contract or other legal act under
EU or Member State law between the controller and the processor, as required by Article 28(3) GDPR.
101. Such legal act must be in writing, including in electronic form.41 Therefore, non-written agreements
(regardless  of  how  thorough  or  effective  they  are)  cannot  be  considered  sufficient  to  meet  the
requirements laid down by Article 28 GDPR. To avoid any difficulties in demonstrating that the contract
or other legal act is actually in force, the EDPB recommends ensuring that the necessary signatures are
included in the legal act, in line with applicable law (e.g. contract law).

37 Article 28(1) and Recital 81 GDPR.
38 Recital 81 GDPR.
39 Article 28(5) and Recital 81 GDPR.
40 See also Article 28(3)h GDPR.
41 Article 28(9) GDPR.
Adopted - After public consultation

31

102. Furthermore, the contract or the other legal act under Union or Member State law must be binding
on the processor with regard to the controller, i.e. it must establish obligations on the processor that
are  binding  as  a  matter  of  EU  or  Member State  law.  Also  it  must  set  out  the  obligations  of  the
controller. In most cases, there will be a contract, but the Regulation also refers to “other legal act”,
such as a national law (primary or secondary) or other legal instrument. If the legal act does not include
all the minimum required content, it must be supplemented with a contract or another legal act that
includes the missing elements.

103. Since the Regulation establishes a clear obligation to enter into a written contract, where no other
relevant legal act is in force, the absence thereof is an infringement of the GDPR.42 Both the controller
and processor are responsible for ensuring that there is a contract or other legal act to govern the
processing.43 Subject to the provisions of Article 83 of the GDPR, the competent supervisory authority
will be able to direct an administrative fine against both the controller and the processor, taking into
account the circumstances of each individual case. Contracts that have been entered into before the
date of application of the GDPR should have been updated in light of Article 28(3). The absence of such
update, in order to bring a previously existing contract in line with the requirements of the GDPR,
constitutes an infringement of Article 28(3).

A written contract pursuant to Article 28(3) GDPR may be embedded in a broader contract, such as a
service level agreement. In order to facilitate the demonstration of compliance with the GDPR, the
EDPB recommends that the elements of the contract that seek to give effect to Article 28 GDPR be
clearly identified as such in one place (for example in an annex).

104.

In order to comply with the duty to enter into a contract, the controller and the processor may choose
to negotiate their own contract including all the compulsory elements or to rely, in whole or in part,
on standard contractual clauses in relation to obligations under Article 28.44

42 The presence (or absence) of a written arrangement, however, is not decisive for the existence of a controller-
processor relationship. Where there is reason to believe that the contract does not correspond with reality in
terms  of  actual  control,  on  the  basis  of  a  factual  analysis  of  the  circumstances  surrounding  the  relationship
between the parties and the processing of personal data being carried out, the agreement may be set aside.
Conversely, a controller-processor relationship might still be held to exist in absence of a written processing
agreement. This would, however, imply a violation of Article 28(3) GDPR. Moreover, in certain circumstances,
the absence of a clear definition of the relationship between the controller and the processor may raise the
problem  of  the  lack  of  legal  basis  on  which  every  processing  should  be  based,  e.g.  in  respect  of  the
communication of data between the controller and the alleged processor.
43 Article 28(3) is not only applicable to controllers. In the situation where only the processor is subject to the
territorial scope of the GDPR, the obligation shall only be directly applicable to the processor, see also EDPB
Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR, p. 12.
44 Article 28(6) GDPR. The EDPB recalls that standard contractual clauses for the purposes of compliance with
Article 28 GDPR are not the same as standard contractual clauses referred to in Article 46(2). While the former
further  stipulate  and  clarify  how  the  provisions  of  Article  28(3)  and  (4)  will  be fulfilled,  the  latter  provide
appropriate safeguards in case of transfer of personal data to a third country or an international organisation in
the absence of an adequacy decision pursuant to Article 45(3).
Adopted - After public consultation

32

105. A set of standard contractual clauses (SCCs) may be, alternatively, adopted by the Commission45 or
adopted by a supervisory authority, in accordance with the consistency mechanism.46 These clauses
could be part of a certification granted to the controller or processor pursuant to Articles 42 or 43.47

106. The EDPB would like to clarify that there is no obligation for controllers and processors to enter into a
contract based on SCCs, nor is it to be necessarily preferred over negotiating an individual contract.
Both options are viable for the purposes of compliance with data protection law, depending on the
specific circumstances, as long as they meet the Article 28(3) requirements.

107.

If the parties wish to take advantage of standard contractual clauses, the data protection clauses of
their agreement must be the same as those of the SCCs. The SCCs will often leave some blank spaces
to be filled in or options to be selected by the parties. Also, as also mentioned above, the SCCs will
generally  be  embedded  in  a  larger  agreement  describing  the  object  of  the  contract,  its  financial
conditions, and other agreed clauses: it will be possible for the parties to add additional clauses (e.g.
applicable law and jurisdiction) as long as they do not contradict, directly or indirectly, the SCCs48 and
they do not undermine the protection afforded by the GDPR and EU or Member State data protection
laws.

108. Contracts between controllers and processors may sometimes be drafted unilaterally by one of the
parties. Which party or parties that draft the contract may depend on several factors, including: the
parties’ position in the market and contractual power, their technical expertise, as well as access to
legal services. For instance, some service providers tend to set up standard terms and conditions,
which include data processing agreements.

109. An agreement between the controller and processor must comply with the requirements of Article 28
GDPR in order to ensure that the processor processes personal data in compliance with the GDPR. Any
such agreement should take into account the specific responsibilities of controllers and processors.
Although Article 28 provides a list of points which must be addressed in any contract governing the
relationship between controllers and processors it leaves room for negotiations between the parties
to such contracts. In some situations a controller or a processor may be in a weaker negotiation power
to customize the data protection agreement. Reliance on the standard contractual clauses adopted
pursuant to Article 28 (subparagraphs 7 and 8) may contribute to rebalancing the negotiating positions
and to ensure that the contracts respect the GDPR.

on 

and 

1/2021 

clauses 

between 

standard 

controllers 

contractual 

45 Article 28(7) GDPR.  Article 28(7) GDPR.  Article 28(7) GDPR. Article 28(7) GDPR. See the EDPB-EDPS Joint
Opinion 
processors:
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/edpbedps-joint-opinion/edpb-edps-joint-opinion-
12021-standard_en.
46 Article 28(8) GDPR. The Register for Decisions taken by supervisory authorities and courts on issues handled in
the consistency mechanism, including standard contractual clauses for the purposes of compliance with Art. 28
GDPR,  can  be  accessed  here: https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/consistency-findings/register-for-
decisions_en.
47 Article 28(6) GDPR.
48 The  EDPB  recalls  that  the  same  degree  of  flexibility  is  allowed  when  the  parties  choose  to  use  SCCs  as
appropriate safeguard for transfers to third countries pursuant to Article 46(2)(c) or Article 46(2)(d) GDPR. Recital
109 GDPR clarifies that “The possibility for the controller or processor to use standard data-protection clauses
adopted by the Commission or by a supervisory authority should prevent controllers or processors neither from
including the standard data-protection clauses in a wider contract, such as a contract between the processor and
another processor, nor from adding other clauses or additional safeguards provided that they do not contradict,
directly or indirectly, the standard contractual clauses [...] or prejudice the fundamental rights or freedoms of the
data subjects. Controllers and processors should be encouraged to provide additional safeguards via contractual
commitments that supplement standard protection clauses”.
Adopted - After public consultation

33

110. The fact that the contract and its detailed terms of business are prepared by the service provider rather
than by the controller is not in itself problematic and is not in itself a sufficient basis to conclude that
the service provider should be considered as a controller. Also, the imbalance in the contractual power
of  a  small  data  controller  with  respect  to  big  service  providers  should  not  be  considered  as  a
justification for the controller to accept clauses and terms of contracts which are not in compliance
with data protection law, nor can it discharge the controller from its data protection obligations. The
controller must evaluate the terms and in so far as it freely accepts them and makes use of the service,
it has also accepted full responsibility for compliance with the GDPR. Any proposed modification, by a
processor, of data processing agreements included in standard terms and conditions should be directly
notified to and approved by the controller, bearing in mind the degree of leeway that the processor
enjoys with respect to non-essential elements of the means (see paragraphs 40-41 above). The mere
publication of these modifications on the processor’s website is not compliant with Article 28.
1.3 Content of the contract or other legal act

111. Before focusing on each of the detailed requirements set out by the GDPR as to the content of the

contract or other legal act, some general remarks are necessary.

112. While the elements laid down by Article 28 of the Regulation constitute its core content, the contract
should be a way for the controller and the processor to further clarify how such core elements are
going to be implemented with detailed instructions. Therefore, the processing agreement should not
merely  restate  the  provisions  of  the  GDPR:  rather,  it  should  include  more  specific,  concrete
information as to how the requirements will be met and which level of security is required for the
personal data processing that is the object of the processing agreement. Far from being a pro-forma
exercise, the negotiation and stipulation of the contract are a chance to specify details regarding the
processing.49 Indeed,  the  “protection  of  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  data  subjects  as  well  as  the
responsibility  and  liability  of  controllers  and  processors  [...]  requires  a  clear  allocation  of  the
responsibilities” under the GDPR.50

113. At the same time, the contract should take into account “the specific tasks and responsibilities of the
processor in the context of the processing to be carried out and the risk to the rights and freedoms
of the data subject”.51 Generally speaking, the contract between the parties should be drafted in light
of the specific data processing activity. For instance, there is no need to impose particularly stringent
protections and procedures on a processor entrusted with a processing activity from which only minor
risks arise: while each processor must comply with the requirements set out by the Regulation, the
measures and procedures should be tailored to the specific situation. In any event, all elements of
Article 28(3) must be covered by the contract. At the same time, the contract should include some
elements that may help the processor in understanding the risks to the rights and freedoms of data
subjects arising from the processing: because the activity is performed on behalf of the controller,
often the  controller  has  a  deeper  understanding  of the  risks that  the  processing  entails  since the
controller is aware of the circumstances in which the processing is embedded.

114. Moving on to the required content of the contract or other legal act, EDPB interprets Article 28(3) in

a way that it needs to set out:

49 See also EDPB Opinion 14/2019 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses submitted by the DK SA (Article
28(8) GDPR), p. 5.
50 Recital 79 GDPR.
51 Recital 81 GDPR.
Adopted - After public consultation

34













the subject-matter of  the  processing  (for  instance,  video  surveillance  recordings  of  people
entering and leaving a high-security facility). While the subject matter of the processing is a
broad concept, it needs to be formulated with enough specifications so that it is clear what the
main object of the processing is;
the duration52 of the processing: the exact period of time, or the criteria used to determine it,
should be specified; for instance, reference could be made to the duration of the processing
agreement;
the nature of the processing: the type of operations performed as part of the processing (for
instance: “filming”, “recording”, “archiving of images”, ...) and purpose of the processing (for
instance: detecting unlawful entry). This description should be as comprehensive as possible,
depending on the specific processing activity, so as to allow external parties (e.g. supervisory
authorities)  to  understand  the  content  and  the  risks  of  the  processing  entrusted  to  the
processor.
the type of personal data: this should be specified in the most detailed manner as possible (for
instance:  video  images  of  individuals  as  they  enter  and  leave  the  facility).  It  would  not  be
adequate merely to specify that it is “personal data pursuant to Article 4(1) GDPR” or “special
categories of personal data pursuant to Article 9”. In case of special categories of data, the
contract or legal act should at least specify which types of data are concerned, for example,
“information regarding health records”, or “information as to whether the data subject is a
member of a trade union”;
the categories  of  data  subjects:  this,  too,  should  be  indicated  in  a  quite  specific  way  (for
instance: “visitors”, “employees”, delivery services etc.);
the obligations and rights of the controller: the rights of the controller are further dealt with in
the following sections (e.g. with respect to the right of the controller to perform inspections and
audits). As regards the obligations of the controller, examples include the controller’s obligation
to provide the processor with the data mentioned in the contract, to provide and document any
instruction bearing on the processing of data by the processor, to ensure, before and throughout
the processing, compliance with the obligations set out in the GDPR on the processor's part, to
supervise the processing, including by conducting audits and inspections with the processor.

115. While  the  GDPR  lists  elements  that  always  need  to  be  included  in  the  agreement,  other  relevant
information may need to be included, depending on the context and the risks of the processing as well
as any additional applicable requirement.

1.3.1 The processor must only process data on documented instructions from the controller

(Art. 28(3)(a) GDPR)

116. The need to specify this obligation stems from the fact that the processor processes data on behalf of
the controller. Controllers must provide its processors with instructions related to each processing
activity. Such instructions can include permissible and unacceptable handling of personal data, more
detailed procedures, ways of securing data, etc. The processor shall not go beyond what is instructed
by the controller. It is however possible for the processor to suggest elements that, if accepted by the
controller, become part of the instructions given.

52 The duration of the processing is not necessarily equivalent to the duration of the agreement (there may be
legal obligations to keep the data longer or shorter).
Adopted - After public consultation

35

117. When a processor processes data outside or beyond the controller’s instructions, and this amounts to
a decision determining the purposes and means of processing, the processor will be in breach of its
obligations and will even be considered a controller in respect of that processing in accordance with
Article 28(10) (see sub-section 1.5 below53).

118. The instructions issued by the controller must be documented. For these purposes, it is recommended
to include a procedure and a template for giving further instructions in an annex to the contract or
other legal act. Alternatively, the instructions can be provided in any written form (e.g. e-mail), as well
as in any other documented form as long as it is possible to keep records of such instructions. In any
event,  to  avoid  any  difficulties  in  demonstrating  that  the  controller’s instructions  have  been  duly
documented, the EDPB recommends keeping such instructions together with the contract or other
legal act.

119. The  duty  for  the  processor  to  refrain  from  any  processing  activity  not  based  on  the  controller’s
instructions also applies to transfers of personal data to a third country or international organisation.
The  contract  should  specify  the  requirements  for  transfers  to  third  countries  or  international
organisations, taking into account the provisions of Chapter V of the GDPR.

120. The EDPB recommends that controller pay due attention to this specific point especially when the
processor is going to delegate some processing activities to other processors, and when the processor
has divisions or units located in third countries. If the instructions by the controller do not allow for
transfers or disclosures to third countries, the processor will not be allowed to assign the processing
to a sub-processor in a third country, nor will he be allowed to have the data processed in one of his
non-EU divisions.

121. A processor may process data other than on documented instructions of the controller when the
processor is required to process and/or transfer personal data on the basis of EU law or Member
State law to which the processor is subject. This provision further reveals the importance of carefully
negotiating and drafting data processing agreements, as, for example, legal advice may need to be
sought by either party as to the existence of any such legal requirement. This needs to be done in a
timely fashion, as the processor has an obligation to inform the controller of such requirement before
starting the processing. Only when that same (EU or Member State) law forbids the processor to inform
the controller on “important grounds of public interest”, there is no such information obligation. In
any  case,  any  transfer  or  disclosure  may  only  take  place  if  authorised  by  Union  law,  including  in
accordance with Article 48 of the GDPR.

1.3.2 The processor must ensure that persons authorised to process the personal data have

committed themselves to confidentiality or are under an appropriate statutory
obligation of confidentiality (Art. 28(3)(b) GDPR)

122. The  contract  needs  to  state  that  the  processor  must  ensure  that  anyone  it  allows  to  process  the
personal  data  is  committed  to  confidentiality.  This  may  occur  either  via  a  specific  contractual
agreement, or due to statutory obligations already in place.

123. The  broad  concept of  “persons  authorised  to  process  the  personal  data”  includes  employees  and
temporary workers. Generally speaking, the processor should make the personal data available only
to the employees who actually need them to perform tasks for which the processor was hired by the
controller.

53 See Part II, sub-section 1.5 (“Processor determining purposes and means of processing”).
Adopted - After public consultation

36

124. The commitment or obligation of confidentiality must be “appropriate”, i.e. it must effectively forbid
the authorised person from disclosing any confidential information without authorisation, and it must
be sufficiently broad so as to encompass all the personal data processed on behalf of the controller as
well as the conditions under which the personal data are processed.

1.3.3 The processor must take all the measures required pursuant to Article 32 (Art.

28(3)(c) GDPR)

125. Article  32  requires  the  controller  and  the  processor  to  implement  appropriate  technical  and
organisational security measures. While this obligation is already directly imposed on the processor
whose processing operations fall within the scope of the GDPR, the duty to take all measures required
pursuant to Article 32 still needs to be reflected in the contract concerning the processing activities
entrusted by the controller.

126. As indicated earlier, the processing contract should not merely restate the provisions of the GDPR. The
contract needs to include or reference information as to the security measures to be adopted, an
obligation on the processor to obtain the controller’s approval before making changes, and a regular
review of the security measures so as to ensure their appropriateness with regard to risks, which may
evolve over time. The degree of detail of the information as to the security measures to be included in
the contract must be such as to enable the controller to assess the appropriateness of the measures
pursuant to Article 32(1) GDPR. Moreover, the description is also necessary in order to enable the
controller to comply with its accountability duty pursuant to Article 5(2) and Article 24 GDPR as regards
the security measures imposed on the processor. A corresponding obligation of the processor to assist
the controller and to make available all information necessary to demonstrate compliance can be
inferred from Art. 28.3 (f) and (h) GDPR.

127. The  level  of  instructions  provided  by  the controller  to  the  processor  as  to  the  measures  to  be
implemented will depend on the specific circumstances. In some cases, the controller may provide a
clear  and  detailed  description  of  the  security  measures  to  be  implemented.  In  other  cases,  the
controller  may  describe  the  minimum  security  objectives  to  be  achieved,  while  requesting  the
processor to propose implementation of specific security measures. In any event, the controller must
provide the processor with a description of the processing activities and security objectives (based on
the controller’s risk assessment), as well as approve the measures proposed by the processor. This
could be included in an annex to the contract. The controller exercises its decision-making power over
the main features of the security measures, be it by explicitly listing the measures or by approving
those proposed by the processor.
1.3.4 The processor must respect the conditions referred to in Article 28(2) and 28(4) for

engaging another processor (Art. 28(3)(d) GDPR).

128. The  agreement  must  specify  that  the  processor  may  not  engage  another  processor  without  the
controller’s prior written authorisation and whether this authorisation will be specific or general. In
case  of  general  authorisation,  the  processor  has  to  inform  the controller  of  any  change  of  sub-
processors  under  a  written  authorisation,  and  give  the  controller  the  opportunity  to  object.  It  is
recommended that the contract set out the process for this. It should be noted that the processor’s
duty  to  inform  the  controller  of  any  change  of  sub-processors  implies  that  the  processor  actively

Adopted - After public consultation

37

indicates or flags such changes toward the controller.54 Also, where specific authorisation is required,
the contract should set out the process for obtaining such authorisation.

129. When the  processor  engages  another  processor,  a  contract  must  be  put  in  place  between  them,
imposing the same data protection obligations as those imposed on the original processor or these
obligations must be imposed by another legal act under Union or Member State law (see also below
paragraph 160). This includes the obligation under Article 28(3)(h) to allow for and contribute to audits
by  the  controller  or  another  auditor  mandated  by  the  controller.55 The  processor  is  liable  to  the
controller for the other processors’ compliance with data protection obligations (for further details on
the recommended content of the agreement see sub-section 1.6 below56).

1.3.5 The processor must assist the controller for the fulfilment of its obligation to respond

to requests for exercising the data subject's rights (Article 28(3) (e) GDPR).

130. While ensuring that data subjects requests are dealt with is up to the controller, the contract must
stipulate that the processor has an obligation to provide assistance “by appropriate technical and
organisational measures, insofar as this is possible”. The nature of this assistance may vary greatly
“taking into account the nature of the processing” and depending on the type of activity entrusted to
the  processor.  The  details  concerning  the  assistance  to  be  provided  by  the  processor  should  be
included in the contract or in an annex thereto.

131. While the assistance may simply consist in promptly forwarding any request received and/or enabling
the controller to directly extract and manage the relevant personal data, in some circumstances the
processor will be given more specific, technical duties, especially when it is in the position of extracting
and managing the personal data.

132.

It is crucial to bear in mind that, although the practical management of individual requests can be
outsourced to the processor, the controller bears the responsibility for complying with such requests.
Therefore,  the  assessment  as  to  whether  requests by  data  subjects  are  admissible  and/or  the
requirements set by the GDPR are met should be performed by the controller, either on a case-by-case
basis or through clear instructions provided to the processor in the contract before the start of the
processing. Also, the deadlines set out by Chapter III cannot be extended by the controller based on
the fact that the necessary information must be provided by the processor.

1.3.6 The processor must assist the controller in ensuring compliance with the obligations

pursuant to Articles 32 to 36 (Art. 28(3)(f) GDPR).

133.

It is necessary for the contract to avoid merely restating these duties of assistance: the agreement
should  contain  details  as  to  how  the  processor  is  asked  to  help  the  controller  meet  the  listed
obligations.  For  example,  procedures  and  template  forms  may  be  added  in  the  annexes  to  the
agreement, allowing the processor to provide the controller with all the necessary information.

134. The  type  and  degree  of  assistance  to  be  provided  by  the  processor  may  vary  widely  “taking  into
account the nature of processing and the information available to the processor”. The controller must

54 In this regard it is, by contrast, e.g. not sufficient for the processor to merely provide the controller with a
generalized access to a list of the sub-processors which might be updated from time to time, without pointing to
each new sub-processor envisaged. In other words, the processor must actively inform the controller of any
change to the list (i.e. in particular of each new envisaged sub-processor).
55 See also EDPB Opinion 14/2019 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses submitted by the DK SA (Article
28(8) GDPR), 9 July 2019, at paragraph 44.
56 See Part II, sub-section 1.6 (“Sub-processors”).
Adopted - After public consultation

38

adequately  inform  the  processor  as  to  the  risk  involved  in  the  processing  and  as  to  any  other
circumstance that may help the processor meet its duty.

135. Moving on to the specific obligations, the processor has, first, a duty to assist the controller in meeting
the  obligation  to  adopt  adequate  technical  and  organisational  measures  to  ensure  security  of
processing.57 While this may overlap, to some extent, with the requirement that the processor itself
adopts adequate security measures, where the processing operations of the processor fall within the
scope of the  GDPR,  they  remain two  distinct  obligations,  since  one refers  to  the  processor’s own
measures and the other refers to the controller’s.

136. Secondly, the processor must assist the controller in meeting the obligation to notify personal data
breaches to the supervisory authority and to data subjects. The processor must notify the controller
whenever it discovers a personal data breach affecting the processor’s or a sub-processor’s facilities /
IT systems and help the controller in obtaining the information that need to be stated in the report to
the supervisory authority.58 The GDPR requires that the controller notify a breach without undue delay
in order to minimize the harm for individuals and to maximize the possibility to address the breach in
an adequate manner. Thus, the processor’s notification to the data controller should also take place
without  undue  delay.59 Depending  on  the  specific  features  of  the  processing  entrusted  to  the
processor, it may be appropriate for the parties to include in the contract a specific timeframe (e.g.
number of hours) by which the processor should notify the controller, as well as the point of contact
for  such  notifications,  the  modality  and  the  minimum  content  expected  by  the  controller.60
The
contractual arrangement between the controller and the processor may also include an authorisation
and a requirement for the processor to directly notify a data breach in accordance with Articles 33 and
34, but the legal responsibility for the notification remains with the controller.61 If the processor does
notify a data breach directly to the supervisory authority, and inform data subjects in accordance with
Article 33 and 34, the processor must also inform the controller and provide the controller with copies
of the notification and information to data subjects.

137. Furthermore,  the  processor  must  also  assist  the  controller  in  carrying  out  data  protection  impact
assessments when required, and in consulting the supervisory authority when the outcome reveals
that there is a high risk that cannot be mitigated.

138. The duty of assistance does not consist in a shift of responsibility, as those obligations are imposed on
the controller. For instance, although the data protection impact assessment can in practice be carried
out by a processor, the controller remains accountable for the duty to carry out the assessment62 and
the processor is only required to assist the controller “where necessary and upon request.”63 As a
result, the controller is the one that must take the initiative to perform the data protection impact
assessment, not the processor.

57 Article 32 GDPR.
58 Article 33(3) GDPR.
59 For more information, see the Guidelines on Personal data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679,
WP250rev.01, 6 February 2018, p. 13-14.
60 See also EDPB Opinion 14/2019 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses submitted by the DK SA (Article
28(8) GDPR), 9 July 2019, at paragraph 40.
61 Guidelines on Personal data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679, WP250rev.01, 6 February 2018,
p. 14.
62 Article  29  Data  Protection  Working  Party,  Guidelines  on  Data  Protection  Impact  Assessment  (DPIA)  and
determining whether processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, WP
248 rev.01, p. 14
63 Recital 95 GDPR.
Adopted - After public consultation

39

1.3.7 On termination of the processing activities, the processor must, at the choice of the
controller, delete or return all the personal data to the controller and delete existing
copies (Art. 28(3)(g) GDPR).

139. The  contractual  terms  are  meant  to  ensure  that  the  personal  data  are  subject  to  appropriate
protection after the end of the “provision of services related to the processing”: it is therefore up to
the controller to decide what the processor should do with regard to the personal data.

140. The controller can decide at the beginning whether personal data shall be deleted or returned by
specifying it in the contract, through a written communication to be timely sent to the processor. The
contract or other legal act should reflect the possibility for the data controller to change the choice
made before the end of the provision of services related to the processing. The contract should specify
the process for providing such instructions.

141.

If the controller chooses that the personal data be deleted, the processor should ensure that the
deletion is performed in a secure manner, also in order to comply with Article 32 GDPR. The processor
should confirm to the controller that the deletion has been completed within an agreed timescale and
in an agreed manner.

142. The processor must delete all existing copies of the data, unless EU or Member State law requires
further storage. If the processor or controller is aware of any such legal requirement, it should inform
the other party as soon as possible.
1.3.8 The  processor  must  make available  to  the  controller  all  information  necessary  to
demonstrate compliance with the obligations laid down in Article 28 and allow for and
contribute  to  audits,  including  inspections,  conducted  by  the  controller  or  another
auditor mandated by the controller (Art. 28(3)(h) GDPR).

143. The contract shall include details on how often and how the flow of information between the processor
and the controller should take place so that the controller is fully informed as to the details of the
processing that are relevant to demonstrate compliance with the obligations laid down in Article 28
GDPR. For instance, the relevant portions of the processor’s records of processing activities may be
shared with the controller. The processor should provide all information on how the processing activity
will be carried out on behalf of the controller. Such information should include information on the
functioning of the systems used, security measures, how the data retention requirements are met,
data  location, transfers of  data,  who  has  access  to data  and  who  are  the  recipients  of  data,  sub-
processors used, etc.

144. Further details shall also be set out in the contract regarding the ability to carry out and the duty to
contribute to inspections and audits by the controller or another auditor mandated by the controller.

The GDPR specifies the inspections and audits are carried out by the controller or by a third party
mandated by the controller. The goal of such audit is ensuring that the controller has all information
concerning  the  processing  activity  performed  on  its  behalf  and  the  guarantees  provided  by  the
processor. The processor may suggest the choice of a specific auditor, but the final decision has to be
left  to  the  controller  according  to  Article  28(3)(h)  of  the  GDPR.64 Additionally,  even  where  the

64 See EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 1/2021 on standard contractual clauses between controllers and processors,
paragraph 43.
Adopted - After public consultation

40

inspection is performed by an auditor proposed by the processor, the controller retains the right to
contest the scope, methodology and results of the inspection.65

The parties should cooperate in good faith and assess whether and when there is a need to perform
audits on the processor’s premises,, as well as which type of audit or inspection (remote / on-site /
other way to gather the necessary information) would be needed and appropriate in the specific case
also taking into account security concerns; the final choice on this is to be taken by the controller.
Following the results of the inspection, the controller should be able to request the processor to take
subsequent  measures,  e.g.  to  remedy  shortcomings  and  gaps  identified.66 Likewise,  specific
procedures should be established regarding the processor’s and the controller’s inspection of sub-
processors (see sub-section 1.6 below67).

145. The issue of the allocation of costs between a controller and a processor concerning audits is not
covered by the GDPR and is subject to commercial considerations. However, Article 28 (3)(h) requires
that the contract include an obligation for the processor to make available all information necessary
to  the  controller  and  an  obligation  to  allow  for  and  contribute  to  audits,  including  inspections,
conducted by the controller or another auditor mandated by the controller. This means in practice that
parties should not insert in the contract clauses envisaging the payment of costs or fees that would be
clearly disproportionate or excessive, thus having a dissuasive effect on one of the parties. Such clauses
would indeed imply that the rights and obligations set out in Article 28(3)(h) would never be exercised
in  practice  and  would  become  purely  theoretical whereas  they  form  an  integral  part  of  the  data
protection safeguards envisaged under Article 28 GDPR.
Instructions infringing data protection law
1.4

146. According to Article 28(3), the processor must immediately inform the controller if, in its opinion, an

instruction infringes the GDPR or other Union or Member State data protection provisions.

147.

Indeed, the processor has a duty to comply with the controller’s instructions, but it also has a general
obligation to comply with the law. An instruction that infringes data protection law seems to cause a
conflict between the aforementioned two obligations.

148. Once informed that one of its instructions may be in breach of data protection law, the controller will
have to assess the situation and determine whether the instruction actually violates data protection
law.

149. The EDPB recommends the parties to negotiate and agree in the contract the consequences of the
notification of an infringing instruction sent by the processor and in case of inaction from the controller
in this context. One example would be to insert a clause on the termination of the contract if the
controller persists with an unlawful instruction. Another example would be a clause on the possibility
for  the  processor  to  suspend  the  implementation  of  the  affected  instruction  until  the  controller
confirms, amends or withdraws its instruction68.

65 See Opinion 14/2019 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses submitted by the DK SA (Article 28(8) GDPR),
paragraph 43.
66 See Opinion 14/2019 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses submitted by the DK SA (Article 28(8) GDPR),
paragraph 43.
67 See Part II, sub-section 1.6 (“Sub-processors”).
68 See EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 1/2021 on standard contractual clauses between controllers and processors,
paragraph 39.
Adopted - After public consultation

41

1.5 Processor determining purposes and means of processing

150.

If the processor infringes the Regulation by determining the purposes and means of processing, it shall
be considered as a controller in respect of that processing (Article 28(10) GDPR).

1.6 Sub-processors

151. Data  processing  activities  are  often  carried  out  by  a  great  number  of  actors,  and  the  chains  of
subcontracting are becoming increasingly complex. The GDPR introduces specific obligations that are
triggered when a (sub-)processor intends to engage another player, thereby adding another link to the
chain, by entrusting to it activities requiring the processing of personal data. The analysis of whether
the service provider acts as a sub-processor should be carried out in line with what described above
on the concept of processor (see above paragraph 83).

152. Although the chain may be quite long, the controller retains its pivotal role in determining the purpose
and means of processing. Article 28(2) GDPR stipulates that the processor shall not engage another
processor  without  prior  specific  or  general  written  authorisation  of  the  controller  (including  in
electronic form). In the case of general written authorisation, the processor must inform the controller
of any intended changes concerning the addition or replacement of other processors, thereby giving
the controller the opportunity to object to such changes. In both cases, the processor must obtain the
controller’s  authorisation  in  writing  before  any  personal  data  processing  is  entrusted  to  the  sub-
processor. In order to make the assessment and the decision whether to authorise subcontracting, a
list of intended sub-processors (including per each: their locations, what they will be doing and proof
of what safeguards have been implemented) will have to be provided to the data controller by the
processor.69

153. The prior written authorisation may be specific, i.e. referring to a specific sub-processor for a specific
processing activity and at a specific time, or general. This should be specified in the contract or other
legal act that governs the processing.

154.

155.

In cases where the controller decides to accept certain sub-processors at the time of the signature of
the contract, a list of approved sub-processors should be included in the contract or an annex thereto.
The list should then be kept up to date, in accordance with the general or specific authorisation given
by the controller.
If  the  controller  chooses  to  give  its specific  authorisation,  it  should  specify  in  writing  which  sub-
processor and what processing activity it refers to. Any subsequent change will need to be further
authorised  by  the  controller  before  it  is  put  in  place.  If  the  processor’s  request  for a  specific
authorisation is not answered to within the set timeframe, it should be held as denied. The controller
should make its decision to grant or withhold authorisation taking into account its obligation to only
use processors providing “sufficient guarantees” (see sub-section 1.1 above70).

156. Alternatively, the controller may provide its general authorisation to the use of sub-processors (in the
contract, including a list with such sub-processors in an annex thereto), which should be supplemented
with criteria to guide the processor’s choice (e.g., guarantees in terms of technical and organisational

69 This information is needed, so that the controller can comply with the accountability principle in Article 24 and
with provisions of Articles 28(1), 32 and Chapter V of the GDPR.
70 See Part II - sub-section 1.1 (“Choice of the processor”).
Adopted - After public consultation

42

measures,  expert  knowledge,  reliability  and  resources).71 In  this  scenario,  the  processor  needs  to
inform the controller in due time of any intended addition or replacement of sub-processor(s) so as to
provide the controller with the opportunity to object.

157. Therefore,  the  main  difference  between  the  specific  authorisation  and  the  general  authorisation
scenarios lies in the meaning given to the controller’s silence: in the general authorisation situation,
the controller’s failure to object within the set timeframe can be interpreted as authorisation.

158.

In both scenarios, the contract should include details as to the timeframe for the controller’s approval
or objection and as to how the parties intend to communicate regarding this topic (e.g. templates).
Such  timeframe  needs  to  be  reasonable  in  light  of  the  type  of  processing,  the  complexity  of  the
activities  entrusted  to  the  processor  (and  the  sub-processors)  and  the relationship  between  the
parties.  In  addition,  the  contract  should  include  details  as  to  the  practical  steps  following  the
controller’s objection (e.g. by specifying time frame within which the controller and processor should
decide whether the processing shall be terminated).

159. Regardless of the criteria suggested by the controller to choose providers, the processor remains fully
liable to the controller for the performance of the sub-processors’ obligations (Article 28(4) GDPR).
Therefore, the processor should ensure it proposes sub-processors providing sufficient guarantees.

160. Furthermore, when a processor intends to employ an (authorised) sub-processor, it must enter into a
contract with it that imposes the same obligations as those imposed on the first processor by the
controller or the obligations must be imposed by another legal act under EU or Member State law. The
whole chain of processing activities needs to be regulated by written agreements. Imposing the “same”
obligations should be construed in a functional rather than in a formal way: it is not necessary for the
contract to include exactly the same words as those used in the contract between the controller and
the processor, but it should ensure that the obligations in substance are the same. This also means
that if the processor entrusts the sub-processor with a specific part of the processing, to which some
of the obligations cannot apply, such obligations should not be included “by default” in the contract
with the sub-processor, as this would only generate uncertainty. As an example, as to assistance with
data  breach  related  obligations,  notification  of  a  data  breach  by  a  sub-processor  directly  to  the
controller  could  be  done  if  all  three  agree.  However,  in  the  case  of  such  direct  notification the
processor should be informed and get a copy of the notification.

2 CONSEQUENCES OF JOINT CONTROLLERSHIP

2.1 Determining in a transparent manner the respective responsibilities of joint

controllers for compliance with the obligations under the GDPR

161. Article 26(1) of the GDPR provides that joint controllers shall in a transparent manner determine and

agree on their respective responsibilities for compliance with the obligations under the Regulation.

162.

Joint controllers thus need to set “who does what” by deciding between themselves who will have to
carry  out  which  tasks  in  order  to  make  sure  that  the  processing  complies  with  the  applicable
obligations under the GDPR in relation to the joint processing at stake. In other words, a distribution
of responsibilities for compliance is to be made as resulting from the use of the term “respective” in

71 This duty of the controller stems from the accountability principle in Article 24 and from the obligation to
comply with provisions of Articles 28(1), 32 and Chapter V of the GDPR.

Adopted - After public consultation

43

Article 26(1). This does not preclude the fact that EU or Member State law may already set out certain
responsibilities of each joint controller. Where this is the case, the joint controller arrangement should
also address any additional responsibilities necessary to ensure compliance with the GDPR that are not
addressed by the legal provisions.72

163. The objective of these rules is to ensure that where multiple actors are involved, especially in complex
data  processing  environments,  responsibility  for  compliance  with  data  protection  rules  is  clearly
allocated in order to avoid that the protection of personal data is reduced, or that a negative conflict
of competence lead to loopholes whereby some obligations are not complied with by any of the parties
involved in the processing. It should be made clear here that all responsibilities have to be allocated
according to the factual circumstances in order to achieve an operative agreement. The EDPB observes
that  there  are  situations  occurring  in  which  the  influence  of  one  joint  controller  and  its  factual
influence complicate the achievement of an agreement. However, those   circumstances do not negate
the joint controllership and cannot serve to exempt either party from its obligations under the GDPR.

164. More specifically, Article 26(1) specifies that the determination of their respective responsibilities (i.e.
tasks) for compliance with the obligations under the GDPR is to be carried out by joint controllers “in
particular” as  regards  the  exercising  of  the  rights  of  the  data  subject  and  the  duties  to  provide
information referred in Articles 13 and 14, unless and in so far as the respective responsibilities of the
controllers are determined by Union or Member State law to which the controllers are subject.

165.

It is clear from this provision that joint controllers need to define who respectively will be in charge of
answering to requests when data subjects exercise their rights granted by the GDPR and of providing
information to them as required by Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR. This only refers to defining in their
internal relationship which of the parties is obligated to respond to which data subjects’ requests. .
Regardless of any such arrangement, the data subject may contact either of the joint controllers in
accordance with Article 26 (3) GPDR. However, the use of the terms “in particular” indicates that the
obligations  subject  to  the  allocation  of  responsibilities  for  compliance  by  each  party  involved  as
referred in this provision are non-exhaustive. It follows that the distribution of the responsibilities for
compliance among joint controllers is not limited to the topics referred in Article 26(1) but extends to
other controller’s obligations under the GDPR. Indeed, joint controllers need to ensure that the whole
joint processing fully complies with the GDPR.

166.

In this perspective, the compliance measures and related obligations joint controllers should consider
when determining their respective responsibilities, in addition to those specifically referred in Article
26(1), include amongst others without limitation:







Implementation of general data protection principles (Article 5)

Legal basis of the processing73 (Article 6)

Security measures (Article 32)

72 "In any event, the joint controller arrangement should comprehensively address all of the responsibilities of
the joint controllers, including those which may have already been set out in the relevant EU or Member State
law and without prejudice to the obligation of joint controllers to make available the essence of the joint
controller arrangement in accordance with Article 26(2) GDPR."
73 Although the GDPR does not preclude joint controllers to use different legal basis for different processing
operations they carry out, it is recommended to use, whenever possible, the same legal basis for a particular
purpose.
Adopted - After public consultation

44

 Notification of a personal data breach to the supervisory authority and to the data subject74

(Articles 33 and 34)

 Data Protection Impact Assessments (Articles 35 and 36)75





The use of a processor (Article 28)

Transfers of data to third countries (Chapter V)

 Organisation of contact with data subjects and supervisory authorities

167. Other topics that could be considered depending on the processing at stake and the intention of the
parties are for instance the limitations on the use of personal data for another purpose by one of the
joint controllers. In this respect, both controllers always have a duty to ensure that they both have a
legal basis for the processing. Sometimes, in the context of joint controllership, personal data are
shared by one controller to another. As a matter of accountability, each controller has the duty to
ensure that the data are not further processed in a manner that is incompatible with the purposes for
which they were originally collected by the controller sharing the data.76

168.

Joint controllers can have a certain degree of flexibility in distributing and allocating obligations among
them as long as they ensure full compliance with the GDPR with respect of the given processing. The
allocation should take into account factors such as, who is competent and in a position to effectively
ensure data subject’s rights as well as to comply with the relevant obligations under the GDPR. The
EDPB recommends documenting the relevant factors and the internal analysis carried out in order to
allocate the different obligations. This analysis is part of the documentation under the accountability
principle.

169. The obligations do not need to be equally distributed among the joint controllers. In this respect, the
CJEU has recently stated that “the existence of joint responsibility does not necessarily imply equal
responsibility of the various operators involved in the processing of personal data”.77 However, there
may be cases where not all of the obligations can be distributed and all joint controllers may need to
comply with the same requirements arising from the GDPR, taking into account the nature and context
of the joint processing. For instance, joint controllers using shared data processing tools or systems
both  need  to  ensure  compliance  with  notably  the  purpose  limitation  principle  and  implement
appropriate measures to ensure the security of personal data processed under the shared tools.

74 Please  also  see  EDPB  guidelines  on  Personal  data  breach  notification  under  Regulation  2016/679,
WP250.rev.01  which  provide  that  joint  controllership  will  include  “determining  which  party  will  have
responsibility for complying with the obligations under Articles 33 and 34. WP29 recommends that the contractual
arrangements between joint controllers include provisions that determine which controller will take the lead on,
or be responsible for, compliance with the GDPR’s breach notification obligations”( p.13).
75 Please also see EDPB guidelines on DPIAs, WP248.rev01 which provide the following: “When the processing
operation involves joint controllers, they need to define their respective obligations precisely. Their DPIA should
set out which party is responsible for the various measures designed to treat risks and to protect the rights and
freedoms of the data subjects. Each data controller should express his needs and share useful information without
either  compromising  secrets  (e.g.:  protection  of  trade  secrets,  intellectual  property,  confidential  business
information) or disclosing vulnerabilities” (p.7).
76 Each disclosure by a controller requires a lawful basis and assessment of compatibility, regardless of whether
the recipient is a separate controller or a joint controller. In other words, the existence of a joint controller
relationship does not automatically mean that the joint controller receiving the data can also lawfully process
the data for additional purposes which are beyond the scope of joint control.
77 Judgment in Wirtschaftsakademie, C-210/16, ECLI:EU:C:2018:388, paragraph 43.
Adopted - After public consultation

45

170. Another  example  is  the  requirement  for  each  joint  controller  to  maintain  a  record  of  processing
activities or to designate a Data Protection Officer (DPO) if the conditions of Article 37(1) are met. Such
requirements are not related to the joint processing but are applicable to them as controllers.
2.2 Allocation of responsibilities needs to be done by way of an arrangement

2.2.1 Form of the arrangement

171. Article 26(1) of the GDPR provides as a new obligation for joint controllers that they should determine
their respective responsibilities “by means of an arrangement between them”. The legal form of such
arrangement is not specified by the GDPR. Therefore, joint controllers are free to agree on the form of
the arrangement.

172.

In addition, the arrangement on the allocation of responsibilities is binding upon each of the joint
controllers. They each agree and commit vis-à-vis each other on being responsible for complying with
the respective obligations stated in their arrangement as their responsibility.

173. Therefore, for the sake of legal certainty, even if there is no legal requirement in the GDPR for a
contract or other legal act, the EDPB recommends that such arrangement be made in the form of a
binding document such as a contract or other legal binding act under EU or Member State law to which
the controllers are subject. This would provide certainty and could be used to evidence transparency
and  accountability.  Indeed,  in  case  of  non-compliance  with  the  agreed  allocation  provided  in  the
arrangement, its binding nature allows one controller to seek the liability of the other for what was
stated in the agreement as falling under its responsibility. Also, in line with the accountability principle,
the use of a contract or other legal act will allow joint controllers to demonstrate that they comply
with the obligations imposed upon them by the GDPR.

174. The way responsibilities, i.e. the tasks, are allocated between each joint controller has to be stated in
a clear and plain language in the arrangement.78 This requirement is important as it ensures legal
certainty and avoid possible conflicts not only in the relation between the joint controllers but also vis-
à-vis the data subjects and the data protection authorities.

175. To better frame the allocation of responsibilities between the parties, the EDPB recommends that the
arrangement also provide general information on the joint processing by notably specifying the subject
matter and purpose of the processing, the type of personal data, and the categories of data subjects.

2.2.2 Obligations towards data subjects

176. The GDPR provides several obligations of joint controllers towards data subjects:

The arrangement shall duly reflect the respective roles and relationships of the joint controllers vis-à-
vis the data subjects

177. As a complement to what is explained above in section 2.1 of the present guidelines, it is important
that the joint controllers clarify in the arrangement their respective role, “in particular” as regards the
exercise of the rights of the data subject and their duties to provide the information referred to in
Articles 13 and 14. Article 26 of the GDPR stresses the importance of these specific obligations. The
joint controllers must therefore organise and agree on how and by whom the information will be

78 As stated in Recital 79 of the GDPR “(...) the responsibility and liability of controllers and processors, also in
relation  to the  monitoring  by  and  measures  of  supervisory  authorities,  requires  a  clear  allocation  of  the
responsibilities under this Regulation, including where a controller determines the purposes and means of the
processing jointly with other controllers”.
Adopted - After public consultation

46

provided  and  how  and  by  whom  the  answers  to  the  data  subject’s  requests  will  be  provided.
Irrespective of the content of the arrangement on this specific point, the data subject may contact
either of the joint controllers to exercise his or her rights in accordance with Article 26(3) as further
explained below.

178. The way these obligations are organised in the arrangement should “duly”, i.e. accurately, reflect the
reality  of  the  underlying  joint  processing.  For  example,  if  only  one  of  the  joint  controllers
communicates with the data subjects for the purpose of the joint processing, such controller could be
in a better position to inform the data subjects and possibly to answer their requests.

The essence of the arrangement shall be made available to the data subject

179. This provision is aimed to ensure that the data subject is aware of the “essence of the arrangement”.
For example, it must be completely clear to a data subject which data controller serves as a point of
contact for the exercise of data subject rights (notwithstanding the fact that he or she can exercise his
or her rights in respect of and against each joint controller). The obligation to make the essence of the
arrangement available to data subjects is important in case of joint controllership in order for the data
subject to know which of the controllers is responsible for what.

180. What should be covered by the notion of “essence of the arrangement” is not specified by the GDPR.
The EDPB recommends that the essence cover at least all the elements of the information referred to
in Articles 13 and 14 that should already be accessible to the data subject, and for each of these
elements, the arrangement should specify which joint controller is responsible for ensuring compliance
with  these  elements.  The  essence  of  the  arrangement  must  also  indicate  the  contact  point,  if
designated.

181. The way such information shall be made available to the data subject is not specified. Contrary to other
provisions of the GDPR (such as Article 30(4) for the record of processing or Article 40(11) for the
register of approved codes of conduct), Article 26 does not indicate that the availability should be
“upon request” nor “publicly available by way of appropriate means”. Therefore, it is up to the joint
controllers to decide the most effective way to make the essence of the arrangement available to the
data subjects (e.g. together with the information in Article 13 or 14, in the privacy policy or upon
request to the data protection officer, if any, or to the contact point that may have been designated).
Joint controllers should respectively ensure that the information is provided in a consistent manner.

The arrangement may designate a contact point for data subjects

182. Article 26(1) provides the possibility for joint controllers to designate in the arrangement a contact

point for data subjects. Such designation is not mandatory.

183. Being informed of a single way to contact possible multiple joint controllers enables data subjects to
know who they can contact with regard to all issues related to the processing of their personal data.
In addition, it allows multiple joint controllers to coordinate in a more efficient manner their relations
and communications vis-à-vis data subjects.

184. For these reasons, in order to facilitate the exercise of data subjects’ rights under the GDPR, the EDPB

recommends joint controllers to designate such contact point.

185. The contact point can be the DPO, if any, the representative in the Union (for joint controllers not

established in the Union) or any other contact point where information can be obtained.

Adopted - After public consultation

47

Irrespective of the terms of the arrangement, data subjects may exercise their rights in respect of
and against each of the joint controllers.

186. Under Article 26(3), a data subject is not bound by the terms of the arrangement and may exercise his

or her rights under the GDPR in respect of and against each of the joint data controllers.

187. For example, in case of joint controllers established in different Member States, or if only one of the
joint controllers is established in the Union, the data subject may contact, at his or her choice, either
the controller established in the Member State of his or her habitual residence or place of work, or the
controller established elsewhere in the EU or in the EEA.

188. Even if the arrangement and the available essence of it indicate a contact point to receive and handle

all data subjects’ requests, the data subjects themselves may still choose otherwise.

189. Therefore, it is important that joint controllers organise in advance in their arrangement how they will
manage answers to requests they could receive from data subjects. In this respect, it is recommended
that joint controllers communicate to the other controllers in charge or to the designated contact
point, the requests received in order to be effectively handled. Requiring data subjects to contact the
designated contact point or the controller in charge would impose an excessive burden on the data
subject that would be contrary to the objective of facilitating the exercise of their rights under the
GDPR.
2.3 Obligations towards data protection authorities

190.

191.

Joint  controllers  should  organise  in  the  arrangement  the  way  they  will  communicate  with  the
competent  supervisory  data  protection  authorities.  Such  communication  could  cover  possible
consultation under Article 36 of the GDPR, notification of a personal data breach, designation of a data
protection officer.

It should be recalled that data protection authorities are not bound by the terms of the arrangement
whether on the issue of the qualification of the parties as joint controllers or the designated contact
point. Therefore, the authorities can contact any of the joint controllers to exercise their powers under
Article 58 with respect to the joint processing.

Adopted - After public consultation

48

Annex I – Flowchart for applying the concepts of controller, processor and joint controllers in

practice

Note: in order to properly assess the role of each entity involved, one must first identify the specific
personal data processing at stake and its exact purpose. If multiple entities are involved, it is necessary to
assess whether the purposes and means are determined jointly, leading to joint controllership.

NO

YES

YES

Is another party involved in the

personal data processing in

question?

YES

Are you appointed as controller
according to a legal act for the
processing in question? (explicit

legal competence)

NO

Is the processing necessary in
order to carry out a task for
which you are responsible
according to a legal act?
(implicit legal competence)

NO

Do you decide?

• the purpose or purposes

that the data will be

processed for

• which personal data that

shall be collected and

processed

• which categories of
individuals that the

processed data will refer to
• whether the processed
data shall be disclosed and

to whom

• for how long the personal

data will be stored

YES

NO

NO

You are the sole controller and must
decide on purposes and means of the

processing

The legal act applies and you are the
controller for that specific processing

You are the controller of the processing

necessary to execute this task

You are the controller for this personal

data processing (see below for

assessment of joint control if other

entities are involved)

No, I carry out the processing on behalf of another

party, in accordance with its instructions.

I make decisions about certain  non-essential

means to be used (e.g., what IT systems or other

technical means to use for the processing or
details of the  security measures based on the

general security objectives set by the other party)

No, I carry out the processing on behalf of another

party and solely in accordance with its

instructions. I do not make any decisions as to

purposes and means of the processing of my own

I DO NOT KNOW

You are a processor

Adopted - After public consultation

49

I DO NOT KNOW

I don’t know who
decides on the

purposes or means of

the processing.  :

The following factors may help to

determine the appropriate qualification

of the roles:

Factors that indicate that you

are the controller

Factors that indicate that you

are the processor

• You obtain a benefit from, or have an interest in, the
processing (other than the mere payment for services
received from another controller)

• You make decisions about the individuals concerned
as part of or as a result of the processing (e.g. the data
subjects are your employees)

• The processing activities can be considered as
naturally attached to the role or activities of your entity
(e.g. due to traditional roles or professional expertise)
which entails responsibilities from a data protection
point of view

• The processing refers to your relation with the data
subjects as employees, customers, members etc.

• You have complete autonomy in deciding how the
personal data is processed

• You have entrusted the processing of personal data
to an external organisation to process the personal
data on your behalf

• You process the personal data for another party’s
purposes and in accordance with its documented
instructions - you do not have a purpose of your own
for the processing.

• Another party monitors your processing activities in
order to ensure that you comply with instructions and
terms of contract.

• You do not pursue your own purpose in the
processing other than your own business interest to
provide services.

• You have been engaged for carrying out specific
processing activities by someone who in turn has been
engaged to process data on another party’s behalf and
on this party’s documented instructions (you are a sub-
processor)

Adopted - After public consultation

50

Joint controllership - If you are the controller and other parties are involved in the personal data
processing:

Do you and (an)other party(ies) involved jointly determine

the purposes and means of the processing?

Does more than one party have a decisive influence over
whether and how the processing takes place – either by a

common decision or by converging decisions that
complement each other and are necessary for the

processing because they have a tangible impact on the

determination of the purposes and means?

NO

This means that the processing would not be possible
without both parties’ participation - the processing by

each party is inseparable, i.e. inextricably linked.

YES

You are the sole controller – the
other parties involved may be

separate independent controllers for
their own purpose or processors in
accordance with the flowchart above

Do the common or converging decisions  on purposes and
means relate to the whole of the processing in question?

YES

You are joint controllers for the whole

processing

NO

No, the common or converging decisions only relate to

specific stages of the processing

You are joint controllers for the
stages of the processing for which
you determine purposes and means
together and separate controllers for
those processing operations where
you determine purposes and means

separately

Adopted - After public consultation

51

