
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    07.09.2020
                                Drones, dashcams and cameras: almost 200 data protection notices on video surveillance this year - new guidance from the data protection conference is availableIn Rhineland-Palatinate this year, there have already been almost 200 complaints and notices from citizens about the use of video cameras. People contacted the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate about the use of cameras by neighbors, the use of devices in gastronomy and the use of wildlife cameras. State data protection officer Dieter Kugelmann says: "With advances in technology and digitization, cameras are getting smaller and cheaper and the quality of the recordings is getting better. One consequence of this development is that more people are using or want to use a camera to protect their property, to control or even to monitor others. It is often forgotten that the use may only take place in compliance with all data protection rules. Even a simple surveillance system processes large amounts of personal data. In real time, images can be stored indefinitely. To record you need often no more than a smartphone or a tablet. The use of cameras without unduly curtailing the freedom rights of others will be one of the major data protection issues in the coming years." new orientation h Help on video surveillance published by non-public bodies. It informs private individuals and companies which legal bases are applied and which legal requirements apply to video surveillance. The DSK explains formal requirements and documentation requirements; Examples of the implementation of the transparency obligations are attached. Those responsible and data protection officers can use a checklist to check whether they have complied with all the essential verification steps when setting up video surveillance. The new guidance is the first since the General Data Protection Regulation came into force. Recent developments such as the use of drones, dash cams and webcams are also discussed. The video surveillance guide is available here.
                                return
                            



