Guidelines 04/2020 on the use of location data and contact

tracing tools in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak

Adopted on 21 April 2020

adopted

Table of contents

2.1
2.2

Table of contents..................................................................................................................................... 2
1
Introduction & context.................................................................................................................... 3
Use of location data ........................................................................................................................ 5
2
Sources of location data.......................................................................................................... 5
Focus on the use of anonymised location data....................................................................... 5
contact tracing applications ............................................................................................................ 7
General legal analysis.............................................................................................................. 7
Recommendations and functional requirements ................................................................... 9
Conclusion ..................................................................................................................................... 10
4
Annex -- Contact Tracing Applications  Analysis Guide......................................................................... 11

3.1
3.2

3

adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70(1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter
“GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES:

1 INTRODUCTION & CONTEXT

Governments and private actors are turning toward the use of data driven solutions as part of
the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, raising numerous privacy concerns.
The EDPB underlines that the data protection legal framework was designed to be flexible and
as such, is able to achieve both an efficient response in limiting the pandemic and protecting
fundamental human rights and freedoms.
The EDPB firmly believes that, when processing of personal data is necessary for managing the
COVID-19 pandemic, data protection is indispensable to build trust, create the conditions for
social acceptability of any solution, and thereby guarantee the effectiveness of these measures.
Because  the  virus  knows  no  borders,  it seems  preferable to  develop  a  common  European
approach in response to the current crisis, or at least put in place an interoperable framework.
The EDPB generally considers that data and technology used to help fight COVID-19 should
be used to empower, rather than to control, stigmatise, or repress individuals. Furthermore,
while  data  and  technology  can  be  important  tools,  they  have intrinsic limitations  and  can
merely leverage the effectiveness of other public health measures. The general principles of
effectiveness,  necessity,  and  proportionality  must  guide  any  measure  adopted  by  Member
States or EU institutions that involve processing of personal data to fight COVID-19.
These guidelines clarify the conditions and principles for the proportionate use of location data
and contact tracing tools, for two specific purposes:





using location data to support the response to the pandemic by modelling the spread of
the virus so as to assess the overall effectiveness of confinement measures ;
contact tracing, which aims to notify individuals of the fact that they have been in close
proximity of someone who is eventually confirmed to be a carrier of the virus, in order
to break the contamination chains as early as possible.

The efficiency of the contribution of contact tracing applications to the management of the
pandemic depends on many factors (e.g., percentage of people who would need to install it;
definition of a "contact" in terms of closeness and duration.). Moreover, such applications need
to be part of a comprehensive public health strategy to fight the pandemic, including, inter alia,
testing  and  subsequent  manual  contact  tracing  for  the  purpose  of  doubt  removal.  Their

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.

adopted

3

1

2

3

4

5

6

deployment should be accompanied by supporting measures to ensure that the information
provided to the users is contextualized, and that alerts can be of use to the public health system.
Otherwise, these applications might not reach their full impact.
The EDPB emphasises that the GDPR and Directive 2002/58/EC (the “ePrivacy Directive”)
both  contain  specific  rules  allowing for the  use  of  anonymous  or  personal  data  to  support
public authorities and other actors at national and EU levels in monitoring and containing the
spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus2.
In this regard, the EDPB has already taken position on the fact that the use of contact tracing
applications should  be  voluntary  and  should  not  rely  on tracing  individual  movements but
rather on proximity information regarding users.3

7

8

2 See the previous statement of the EDPB on the COVID 19 outbreak.
3 3 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpbletterecadvisecodiv-appguidance_final.pdf

adopted

4

2 USE OF LOCATION DATA

2.1 Sources of location data

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

There are two principal sources of location data available for modelling the spread of the virus
and the overall effectiveness of  confinement measures:





location data collected by electronic communication service providers (such as mobile
telecommunication operators) in the course of the provision of their service ; and
location  data  collected  by  information  society  service providers’ applications whose
functionality requires the use of such data (e.g., navigation, transportation services,
etc.).

The EDPB recalls that location data4 collected from electronic communication providers may
only be processed within the remits of articles 6 and 9 of the ePrivacy Directive. This means
that these data can only be transmitted to authorities or other third parties if they have been
anonymised by  the provider  or,  for data  indicating  the  geographic position  of the terminal
equipment of a user, which are not traffic data, with the prior consent of the users5.
Regarding information,  including  location  data, collected  directly  from  the  terminal
equipment, art. 5(3) of the “ePrivacy” directive applies. Hence, the storing of information on
the user’s device or gaining access to the information already stored is allowed only if (i) the
user has given consent6 or (ii) the storage and/or access is strictly necessary for the information
society service explicitly requested by the user.
Derogations to the rights and obligations provided for in the “ePrivacy” Directive are however
possible pursuant to Art. 15, when they constitute a necessary, appropriate and proportionate
measure within a democratic society for certain objectives7.
As  for  the  re-use  of  location  data  collected  by  an  information  society  service  provider  for
modelling  purposes  (e.g.,  through  the  operating  system  or some previously  installed
application)  additional  conditions  must  be  met.  Indeed,  when  data have  been  collected in
compliance with Art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy Directive, they can only be further processed with the
additional consent of the data subject or on the basis of a Union or Member State law which
constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to safeguard the
objectives referred to in Art. 23 (1) GDPR.8

2.2 Focus on the use of anonymised location data

The EDPB emphasises that when it comes to using location data, preference should always be
given to the processing of anonymised data rather than personal data.
Anonymisation refers to the use of a set of techniques in order to remove the ability to link the
data  with  an  identified  or  identifiable  natural  person  against  any  “reasonable”  effort.  This
“reasonability test” must take into account both objective aspects (time, technical means) and
contextual elements that may vary case by case (rarity of a phenomenon including population
density, nature and volume of data). If the data fails to pass this test, then it has not been
anonymised and therefore remains in the scope of the GDPR.
Evaluating the robustness of anonymisation relies on three criteria: (i) singling-out (isolating
an individual in a larger group based on the data); (ii) linkability (linking together two records

4See Art. 2(c) of the ePrivacy Directive.
5 See Art 6 and 9 of the ePrivacy Directive.
6 The notion of consent in the ePrivacy directive remains the notion of consent in the GDPR and must meet all the
requirements of the consent as provided by art. 4(11) and 7 GDPR
7 For the interpretation of article 15 of the “ePrivacy” Directive, see also, CJEU Judgment of 29 January 2008 in
case C-275/06, Productores de Música de España (Promusicae) v. Telefónica de España SAU.
8 See section 1.5.3 of the guidelines 1/2020 on processing personal data in the context of connected vehicles.

adopted

5

17

concerning the same individual); and (iii) inference (deducing, with significant probability,
unknown information about an individual).
The  concept  of  anonymisation  is  prone  to  being  misunderstood  and  is  often  mistaken  for
pseudonymisation. While  anonymisation  allows using the  data  without  any  restriction,
pseudonymised data are still in the scope of the GDPR.

19

20

18 Many options for effective anonymisation exist9, but with a caveat. Data cannot be anonymised
on their own, meaning that only datasets as a whole may or may not be made anonymous. In
this sense, any intervention on a single data pattern (by means of encryption, or any other
mathematical transformations) can at best be considered a pseudonymisation.
Anonymisation processes and re-identification attacks are active fields of research. It is crucial
for any controller implementing anonymisation solutions to monitor recent developments in
this  field,  especially  concerning  location  data  (originating  from  telecom  operators  and/or
information society services) which are known to be notoriously difficult to anonymise.
Indeed, a large body of research has shown10 that location data thought to be anonymised may
in  fact  not  be.  Mobility  traces  of  individuals  are  inherently  highly correlated  and unique.
Therefore, they can be vulnerable to re-identification attempts under certain circumstances.
A single data pattern tracing the location of an individual over a significant period of time
cannot be fully anonymised. This assessment may still hold true if the precision of the recorded
geographical coordinates is not sufficiently lowered, or if details of the track are removed and
even if only the location of places where the data subject stays for substantial amounts of time
are retained. This also holds for location data that is poorly aggregated.
To  achieve  anonymisation,  location  data  must  be  carefully  processed  in  order  to  meet  the
reasonability test. In this sense, such a processing includes considering location datasets as a
whole, as well as processing data from a reasonably large set of individuals using available
robust  anonymisation  techniques,  provided  that  they are  adequately  and  effectively
implemented.
Lastly,  given  the  complexity  of  anonymisation  processes,  transparency  regarding  the
anonymisation methodology is highly encouraged.

22

23

21

9 (de Montjoye et al., 2018) "On the privacy-conscientious use of mobile phone data”
10 (de Montjoye et al., 2013) “Unique in the Crowd: The privacy bounds of human mobility” and (Pyrgelis et al.,
2017) “Knock Knock, Who’s There? Membership Inference on Aggregate Location Data”

adopted

6

3 CONTACT TRACING APPLICATIONS

3.1 General legal analysis

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

The systematic and large scale monitoring of location and/or contacts between natural persons
is a grave intrusion into their privacy.  It can only be legitimised by relying on a voluntary
adoption by the users for each of the respective purposes. This would imply, in particular, that
individuals  who  decide  not  to  or  cannot  use such applications should  not  suffer  from  any
disadvantage at all.
To ensure accountability, the controller of any contact tracing application should be clearly
defined. The EDPB considers that the national health authorities could be the controllers11 for
such application; other controllers may also be envisaged. In any cases, if the deployment of
contact tracing apps involves different actors their roles and responsibilities must be clearly
established from the outset and be explained to the users.
In addition, with regard to the principle of purpose limitation, the purposes must be specific
enough to exclude further processing for purposes unrelated to the management of the COVID-
19 health crisis (e.g., commercial or law enforcement purposes). Once the objective has been
clearly  defined,  it  will  be  necessary  to  ensure  that  the  use  of  personal  data  is  adequate,
necessary and proportionate.
In the context of a contact tracing application, careful consideration should be given to the
principle of data minimisation and data protection by design and by default:







contact tracing apps do not require tracking the location of individual users. Instead,
proximity data should be used;
as contact tracing applications can function without direct identification of individuals,
appropriate measures should be put in place to prevent re-identification;
the collected information should reside on the terminal equipment of the user and only
the relevant information should be collected when absolutely necessary.

Regarding the lawfulness of the processing, the EDPB notes that contact tracing applications
involve storage and/or access to information already stored in the terminal, which are subject
to Art. 5(3) of the “ePrivacy” Directive. If those operations are strictly necessary in order for
the  provider  of  the  application  to  provide  the service  explicitly  requested  by  the  user  the
processing would not require his/her consent. For operations that are not strictly necessary,
the provider would need to seek the consent of the user.
Furthermore, the EDPB notes that the mere fact that the use of contact-tracing applications
takes  place  on  a  voluntary  basis  does  not  mean  that  the  processing  of  personal  data  will
necessarily be based on consent. When public authorities provide a service based on a mandate
assigned by and in line with requirements laid down by law, it appears that the most relevant
legal basis for the processing is the necessity for the performance of a task in the public interest,
i.e. Art. 6(1)(e) GDPR.
Article 6(3) GDPR clarifies that the basis for the processing referred to in article 6(1)(e) shall
be laid down by Union or Members State law to which the controller is subject. The purpose of
the processing shall be determined in that legal basis or, as regards the processing referred to
in point (e) of paragraph 1, shall be necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the
public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller.12
The  legal  basis  or  legislative  measure  that  provides  the  lawful  basis  for  the  use  of  contact
tracing applications should, however, incorporate meaningful safeguards including a reference
to  the  voluntary  nature  of  the  application.  A  clear  specification  of  purpose  and  explicit

11 See also European Commission “Guidance on Apps supporting the fight against COVID 19 pandemic in relation
to data protection” Brussels, 16.4.2020 C(2020) 2523 final.
12 See Recital (41).

adopted

7

limitations concerning the further use of personal data should be included, as well as a clear
identification of the controller(s) involved. The categories of data as well as the entities to (and
purposes for which, the personal data may be disclosed) should also be identified. Depending
on the level of interference, additional safeguards should be incorporated, taking into account
the  nature,  scope  and  purposes  of  the  processing.  Finally,  the  EDPB  also  recommends
including,  as  soon  as  practicable,  the  criteria  to  determine  when  the  application  shall  be
dismantled  and  which  entity  shall  be  responsible  and  accountable  for  making  that
determination.

32 However, if the data processing is based on another legal basis, such as consent (Art. 6(1)(a))13
for example, the controller will have to ensure that the strict requirements for such legal basis
to be valid are met.

35

34

36

33 Moreover,  the  use  of  an  application  to  fight  the  COVID-19 pandemic might  lead  to  the
collection of health data (for example the status of an infected person). Processing of such data
is allowed when such processing is necessary for reasons of public interest in the area of public
health, meeting the conditions of art. 9(2)(i) GDPR14 or for health care purposes as described
in Art. 9(2)(h) GDPR15. Depending on the legal basis, it might also be based on explicit consent
(Art. 9(2)(a) GDPR).
In accordance with the initial purpose, Article 9(2)(j) GDPR also allows for health data to be
processed when necessary for scientific research purposes or statistical purposes.
The current health crisis should not be used as an opportunity to establish disproportionate
data retention mandates. Storage limitation should consider the true needs and the medical
relevance (this may include epidemiology-motivated considerations like the incubation period,
etc.) and personal data should be kept only for the duration of the COVID-19 crisis. Afterwards,
as a general rule, all personal data should be erased or anonymised.
It  is  the  EDPB’s  understanding  that  such  apps cannot replace,  but  only  support,  manual
contact tracing performed by qualified public health personnel, who can sort out whether close
contacts are likely to result in virus transmission or not (e.g., when interacting with someone
protected  by  adequate  equipment – cashiers,  etc. -- or  not). The  EDPB underlines that
procedures and processes including respective algorithms implemented by the contact tracing
apps  should  work  under  the  strict  supervision  of  qualified  personnel  in  order  to  limit  the
occurrence of any false positives and negatives. In particular, the task of providing advice on
next steps should not be based solely on automated processing.
In order to ensure their fairness, accountability and, more broadly, their compliance with the
law, algorithms must be auditable and should be regularly reviewed by independent experts.
The  application’s  source  code  should  be  made  publicly  available  for  the  widest  possible
scrutiny.
False positives will always occur to a certain degree. As the identification of an infection risk
probably can have a high impact on individuals, such as remaining in self isolation until tested
negative, the ability to correct data and/or subsequent analysis results is a necessity. This, of
course, should only apply to scenarios and implementations where data is processed and/or
stored  in  a  way  where such correction  is  technically  feasible  and  where  the  adverse  effects
mentioned above are likely to happen.
Finally the EDPB considers that a data protection impact assessment (DPIA) must be carried
out before implementing such tool as the processing is considered likely high risk (health data,

38

39

37

13 Controllers (especially  public  authorities) must  pay  special  attention  to  the  fact  that  consent  should  not  be
regarded as freely given if the individual has no genuine choice to refuse or withdraw its consent without detriment.
14 The processing must be based on Union or Member State law which provides for suitable and specific measures
to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject, in particular professional secrecy.
15 See Article 9(2)(h) GDPR

adopted

8

anticipated large-scale adoption, systematic monitoring, use of new technological solution)16.
The EDPB strongly recommends the publication of DPIAs.

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

3.2 Recommendations and functional requirements

According to the principle of data minimization, among other measures of Data Protection by
Design and by Default17, the data processed should be reduced to the strict minimum. The
application should not collect unrelated or not needed information, which may include civil
status,  communication  identifiers,  equipment  directory  items,  messages,  call  logs,  location
data, device identifiers, etc.
Data broadcasted  by applications  must  only  include  some  unique  and  pseudonymous
identifiers, generated by and specific to the application. Those identifiers must be renewed
regularly, at a frequency compatible with the purpose of containing the spread of the virus, and
sufficient to limit the risk of identification and of physical tracking of individuals.
Implementations for contact tracing can follow a centralized or a decentralized approach18.
Both should be considered viable options, provided that adequate security measures are in
place, each being accompanied by a set of advantages and disadvantages. Thus, the conceptual
phase  of  app  development  should  always  include  thorough  consideration  of  both  concepts
carefully  weighing  up  the  respective  effects  on  data  protection  /privacy  and  the  possible
impacts on individuals rights.
Any server involved in the contact tracing system must only collect the contact history or the
pseudonymous identifiers of a user diagnosed as infected as the result of a proper assessment
made by health authorities and of a voluntary action of the user. Alternately, the server must
keep a list of pseudonymous identifiers of infected users or their contact history only for the
time  to  inform  potentially  infected  users  of  their  exposure,  and  should  not  try  to  identify
potentially infected users.
Putting in place a global contact tracing methodology including both applications and manual
tracing may require additional information to be processed in some cases. In this context, this
additional information should remain on the user terminal and only be processed when strictly
necessary and with his prior and specific consent.
State-of-the-art cryptographic techniques must be implemented to secure the data stored in
servers  and  applications,  exchanges  between  applications  and  the remote  server. Mutual
authentication between the application and the server must also be performed.
The  reporting  of  users  as  COVID-19  infected  on  the  application  must  be  subject  to  proper
authorization, for example through a single-use code tied to a pseudonymous identity of the
infected person and linked to a test station or health care professional. If confirmation cannot
be  obtained  in  a  secure  manner,  no  data  processing  should  take  place  that  presumes  the
validity of the user’s status.
The controller, in collaboration with the public authorities, have to clearly and explicitly inform
about the link to download the official national contact tracing app in order to mitigate the risk
that individuals use a third-party app.

16 See WP29 guidelines (adopted by the EDPB) on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining
whether processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679.
17 See EDPB Guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25 Data Protection by Design and by Default
18 In general, the decentralised solution is more in line with the minimisation principle

adopted

9

4 CONCLUSION

48

49

The world is facing a significant public health crisis that requires strong responses, which will
have an impact beyond this emergency. Automated data processing and digital technologies
can be key components in the fight against COVID-19. However, one should be wary of the
“ratchet  effect”.  It  is  our  responsibility  to ensure  that  every  measure  taken  in  these
extraordinary circumstances are necessary, limited in time, of minimal extent and subject to
periodic and genuine review as well as to scientific evaluation.
The EDPB underlines that one should not have to choose between an efficient response to the
current crisis and the protection of our fundamental rights: we can achieve both, and moreover
data  protection  principles can play  a  very  important  role  in  the  fight  against  the  virus.
European  data  protection  law  allows  for  the  responsible  use  of  personal  data  for  health
management purposes, while also ensuring that individual rights and freedoms are not eroded
in the process.
For the European Data Protection Board
The Chair
(Andrea Jelinek)

adopted

10

ANNEX -- CONTACT TRACING APPLICATIONS
ANALYSIS GUIDE

0. Disclaimer
The following guidance is neither prescriptive nor exhaustive, and its sole purpose of this guide is to
provide general guidance to designers and implementers of contact tracing applications. Other
solutions than the ones described here can be used and can be lawful as long as they comply with the
relevant legal framework (i.e. GDPR and the “ePrivacy” Directive).

It must also be noted that this guide is of a general nature. Consequently, the recommendations and
obligations contained in this document must not be seen as exhaustive. Any assessment must be
carried out on a case-by-case basis, and specific applications may require additional measures not
included in this guide.

1. Summary
In many Member States stakeholders are considering the use of contact tracing* applications to help
the population discover whether they have been in contact with a person infected with SARS-Cov-2*.

The conditions under which such applications would contribute effectively to the management of the
pandemic are not yet established. And these conditions would need to be established prior to any
implementation of such an app. Yet, it is relevant to provide guidelines bringing relevant information
to development teams upstream, so that the protection of personal data can be guaranteed from the
early design stage.

It must be noted that this guide is of a general nature. Consequently, the recommendations and
obligations contained in this document must not be seen as exhaustive. Any assessment must be
carried out on a case-by-case basis, and specific applications may require additional measures not
included in this guide. The purpose of this guide is to provide general guidance to designers and
implementers of contact tracing applications.

Some criteria might go beyond the strict requirements stemming from the data protection framework.
They aim at ensuring the highest level of transparency, in order to favour social acceptance of such
contact tracing applications.

To this end, publishers of contact tracing applications should take into account the following criteria:







The use of such an application must be strictly voluntary. It may not condition the access to
any rights guaranteed by law. Individuals must have full control over their data at all times,
and should be able to choose freely to use such an application.

Contact tracing applications are likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of
natural persons and to require a data protection impact assessment to be conducted prior to
their deployment.

Information  on  the  proximity  between  users  of  the  application  can  be  obtained  without
locating them. This kind of application does not need, and, hence, should not involve the use
of location data.

adopted

11

 When a user is diagnosed infected with the SARS-Cov-2 virus, only the persons with whom the
user  has  been  in  close  contact  within  the  epidemiologically  relevant  retention  period  for
contact tracing, should be informed.



The operation of this type of application might require, depending on the architecture that is
chosen, the use of a centralised server. In such a case and in accordance with the principles
of data minimisation and data protection by design, the data processed by the centralised
server should be limited to the bare minimum:

o When a user is diagnosed as infected, information regarding its previous close contacts
or the identifiers broadcasted by the user’s application can be collected, only with the
user’s agreement. A verification method needs to be established that allows asserting
that the person is indeed infected without identifying the user. Technically this could
be  achieved  by  alerting  contacts  only  following  the  intervention  of  a  healthcare
professional, for example by using a special one-time code.

o The information stored on the central server should neither allow the controller to
identify users diagnosed as infected or having been in contact with those users, nor
should it allow the inference of contact patterns not needed for the determination of
relevant contacts.



The operation of this type of application requires to broadcast data that is read by devices of
other users and listening to these broadcasts:

o It  is  sufficient  to  exchange  pseudonymous  identifiers  between  users'  mobile
for  example  by

equipment 
(computers,  tablets,  connected  watches,  etc.), 
broadcasting them (e.g. via the Bluetooth Low Energy technology).

o Identifiers must be generated using state-of-the-art cryptographic processes.

o Identifiers must be renewed on a regular basis to reduce the risk of physical tracking

and linkage attacks.



This type of application must be secured to guarantee safe technical processes. In particular:

o The application should not convey to the users information that allows them to infer
the identity or the diagnosis of others. The central server must neither identify users,
nor infer information about them.

Disclaimer: the above principles are related to the claimed purpose of contact tracing applications,
and to this purpose only, which only aim to automatically inform people potentially exposed to the
virus (without having to identify them).The operators of the application and its infrastructure may be
controlled by the competent supervisory authority. Following all or part of these guidelines is not
necessarily sufficient to ensure a full compliance to the data protection framework.

2. Definitions

Contact

adopted

For a contact tracing application, a contact is a user who has participated in an
interaction with a user confirmed to be a carrier of the virus, and whose
duration and distance induce a risk of significant exposure to the virus infection.

12

Parameters for duration of exposure and distance between people must be
estimated by the health authorities and can be set in the application.

Location data

Interaction

It refers to all data processed in an electronic communications network or by an
electronic communications service indicating the geographical position of the
terminal equipment of a user of a publicly available electronic communications
service (as defined in the e-Privacy Directive), as well as data from potential
other sources, relating to:





the latitude, longitude or altitude of the terminal equipment;
the direction of travel of the user; or
the time the location information was recorded.

In the context of the contact tracing application, an interaction is defined as the
exchange of information between two devices located in close proximity to each
other (in space and time), within the range of the communication technology
used (e.g. Bluetooth). This definition excludes the location of the two users of
the interaction.

Virus carrier

In this document, we consider virus carriers to be users who have been tested
positive for the virus and who have received an official diagnosis from physicians
or health centres.

Contact tracing

People who have been in close contact (according to criteria to be defined by
epidemiologists) with an individual infected with the virus run a significant risk
of also being infected and of infecting others in turn.

Contact tracing is a disease control methodology that lists all people who have
been in close proximity to a carrier of the virus so as to check whether they are
at risk of infection and take the appropriate sanitary measures towards them.

3. General

GEN-1

GEN-2

The application must be a complementary tool to traditional contact tracing
techniques (notably interviews with infected persons), i.e. be part of a wider
public health program. It must be used only up until the point manual contact
tracing techniques can manage alone the amount of new infections.
At the latest when ”return to normal” is decided by the competent public
authorities, a procedure must be put in place to stop the collection of identifiers
(global deactivation of the application, instructions to uninstall the application,
automatic uninstallation, etc.) and to activate the deletion of all collected data
from all databases (mobile applications and servers).

adopted

13

GEN-3

GEN-4

The source code of the application and of its backend must be open, and the
technical specifications must be made public, so that any concerned party can
audit the code, and where relevant - contribute to improving the code,
correcting possible bugs and ensuring transparency in the processing of
personal data.
The stages of deployment of the application must make it possible to
progressively validate its effectiveness from a public health point of view. An
evaluation protocol, specifying indicators allowing to measure the effectiveness
of the application, must be defined upstream for this purpose.

4. Purposes

PUR-1

PUR-2

PUR-3

The application must pursue the sole purpose of contact tracing so that people
potentially exposed to the SARS-Cov-2 virus can be alerted and taken care of. It
must not be used for another purpose.
The application must not be diverted from its primary use for the purpose of
monitoring compliance with quarantine or confinement measures and/or social
distancing.
The application must not be used to draw conclusions on the location of the
users based on their interaction and/or any other means.

5. Functional considerations

FUNC-1

FUNC-2

FUNC-3

The application must provide a functionality enabling users to be informed that
they have been potentially exposed to the virus, this information being based
on proximity to an infected user within a window of X days prior to the positive
screening test (the X value being defined by the health authorities).
The application should provide recommendations to users identified as having
being potentially exposed to the virus. It should relay instructions regarding the
measures they should follow, and they should allow the user to request advises.
In such cases, a human intervention would be mandatory.
The algorithm measuring the risk of infection by taking into account factors of
distance and time and thus determining when a contact has to be recorded in
the contact tracing list, must be securely tuneable to take into account the most
recent knowledge on the spread of the virus.

FUNC-4 Users must be informed in case they have been exposed to the virus, or must
regularly obtain information on whether or not they have been exposed to the
virus, within the incubation period of the virus.
The application should be interoperable with other applications developed
across EU Member States, so that users travelling across different Member
States can be efficiently notified.

FUNC-5

adopted

14

6. Data

DATA-1

DATA-2

DATA-3

DATA-4

DATA-5

DATA-6

DATA-7

The application must be able to broadcast and receive data via proximity
communication technologies like Bluetooth Low Energy so that contact tracing
can be carried out.
This broadcast data must include cryptographically strong pseudo-random
identifiers, generated by and specific to the application.
The risk of collision between pseudo-random identifiers should be sufficiently
low.
Pseudo-random identifiers must be renewed regularly, at a frequency sufficient
to limit the risk of re-identification, physical tracking or linkage of individuals, by
anyone including central server operators, other application users or malicious
third parties. These identifiers must be generated by the user’s application,
possibly based on a seed provided by the central server.
According to the data minimisation principle, the application must not collect
data other than what is strictly necessary for the purpose of contact tracing

The application must not collect location data for the purpose of contact tracing.
Location data can be processed for the sole purpose of allowing the application
to interact with similar applications in other countries and should be limited in
precision to what is strictly necessary for this sole purpose.
The application should not collect health data in addition to those that are
strictly necessary for the purposes of the app, except on an optional basis and
for the sole purpose of assisting in the decision making process of informing the
user.

DATA-8 Users must be informed of all personal data that will be collected. This data

should be collected only with the user authorization.

7. Technical properties

TECH-1

TECH-2

TECH-3

The application should available technologies
such as use proximity
communication technology (e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy) to detect users in the
vicinity of the device running the application.
The application should keep the history of a user's contacts in the equipment, for
a predefined limited period of time.
The application may rely on a central server to implement some of
functionalities.

its

adopted

15

TECH-4

TECH-5

The application must be based on an architecture relying as much as possible on
users’ devices.
At the initiative of users reported as infected by the virus and after confirmation
of their status by an appropriately certified health professional, their contact
history or their own identifiers should be transmitted to the central server.

8. Security

SEC-1

SEC-2

SEC-3

SEC-4

SEC-5

SEC-6

SEC-7

SEC-8

SEC-9

SEC-10

SEC-11

A mechanism must verify the status of users who report as SARS-CoV-2positive in
the application, for example by providing a single-use code linked to a test station
or health care professional. If confirmation cannot be obtained in a secure manner,
data must not be processed.
The data sent to the central server must be transmitted over a secure channel.
The use of notification services provided by OS platform providers should be
carefully assessed, and should not lead to disclosing any data to third parties.
Requests must not be vulnerable to tampering by a malicious user

State-of-the-art cryptographic techniques must be implemented to secure
exchanges between the application and the server and between applications and
as a general rule to protect the information stored in the applications and on the
server. Examples of techniques that can be used include for example : symmetric
and asymmetric encryption, hash functions, private membership test, private set
intersection, Bloom filters, private information retrieval, homomorphic
encryption, etc.
The central server must not keep network connection identifiers (e.g.,
IP
addresses) of any users including those who have been positively diagnosed and
who transmitted their contacts history or their own identifiers.
In order to avoid impersonation or the creation of fake users, the server must
authenticate the application.
The application must authenticate the central server.

The server functionalities should be protected from replay attacks.

The information transmitted by the central server must be signed in order to
authenticate its origin and integrity.
Access to all data stored in the central server and not publicly available must be
restricted to authorised persons only.
The device’s permission manager at the operating system level must only request
the permissions necessary to access and use when necessary the communication
modules, to store the data in the terminal, and to exchange information with the
central server.

9. Protection of personal data and privacy of natural persons

adopted

16

Reminder: the following guidelines concern an application whose sole purpose is contact tracing.

PRIV-1

PRIV-2

PRIV-3

PRIV-4

PRIV-5

PRIV-6

PRIV-7

PRIV-8

PRIV-9

PRIV-10

PRIV-11

PRIV-12

Data exchanges must be respectful of the users’ privacy (and notably respect the
principle of data minimisation).
The application must not allow users to be directly identified when using the
application.
The application must not allow users' movements to be traced.

The use of the application should not allow users to learn anything about other
users (and notably whether they are virus carriers or not).
Trust in the central server must be limited. The management of the central server
must follow clearly defined governance rules and include all necessary measures
to ensure its security. The localization of the central server should allow an
effective supervision by the competent supervisory authority.
A Data Protection Impact Assessment must be carried out and should be made
public.
The application should only reveal to the user whether they have been exposed
to the virus, and, if possible without revealing information about other users, the
number of times and dates of exposure.
The information conveyed by the application must not allow users to identify
users carrying the virus, nor their movements.
The information conveyed by the application must not allow health authorities to
identify potentially exposed users without their agreement.
Requests made by the applications to the central server must not reveal anything
about the virus carrier.
Requests made by the applications to the central server must not reveal any
unnecessary information about the user, except, possibly, and only when
necessary, for their pseudonymous identifiers and their contact list.
Linkage attacks must not be possible.

PRIV-13 Users must be able to exercise their rights via the application.

PRIV-14 Deletion of the application must result in the deletion of all locally collected data.

PRIV-15

PRIV-16

PRIV-17

The application should only collect data transmitted by instances of the
application or interoperable equivalent applications. No data relating to other
applications and/or proximity communication devices shall be collected.
In order to avoid re-identification by the central server, proxy servers should be
implemented. The purpose of these non-colluding servers is to mix the identifiers
of several users (both those of virus carriers and those sent by requesters) before
sharing them with the central server, so as to prevent the central server from
knowing the identifiers (such as IP addresses) of users.
The application and the server must be carefully developed and configured in
order not to collect any unnecessary data (e.g., no identifiers should be included

adopted

17

in the server logs, etc.) and in order to avoid the use of any third party SDK
collecting data for other purposes.

Most contact tracing applications currently being discussed follow basically two approaches when a
user is declared infected: they can either send to a server the history of proximity contacts they have
obtained through scanning, or they can send the list of their own identifiers that were broadcasted.
The following principles are declined according to these two approaches. While these approaches are
discussed here, that does not mean other approaches are not possible or even preferable, for example
approaches that implement some form of E2E encryption or apply other security or privacy enhancing
technologies.

9.1. Principles that apply only when the application sends to the server a list of contacts:

CON-1

CON-2

CON-3

CON-4

CON-5

CON-6

CON-7

The central server must collect the contact history of users reported as positive
to COVID-19 as a result of voluntary action on their part.
The central server must not maintain nor circulate a list of the pseudonymous
identifiers of users carrying the virus.
Contact history stored on the central server must be deleted once users are
notified of their proximity with a positively diagnosed person.
Except when the user detected as positive shares his contact history with the
central server or when the user makes a request to the server to find out his
potential exposure to the virus, no data must leave the user's equipment.
Any identifier included in the local history must be deleted after X days from
its collection (the X value being defined by the health authorities).

Contact histories submitted by distinct users should not further be processed
e.g. cross-correlated to build global proximity maps.

Data in server logs must be minimised and must comply with data protection
requirements

9.2. Principles that apply only when the application sends to a server a list of its own identifiers:

The central server must collect the identifiers broadcast by the application of
users reported as positive to COVID-19, as a result of voluntary action on their
part.
The central server must not maintain nor circulate the contact history of users
carrying the virus.
Identifiers stored on the central server must be deleted once they were
distributed to the other applications.
Except when the user detected as positive shares his identifiers with the central
server, no data must leave the user's equipment or when the user makes a

ID-1

ID-2

ID-3

ID-4

adopted

18

request to the server to find out his potential exposure to the virus, no data
must leave the user's equipment.
Data in server logs must be minimised and must comply with data protection
requirements

ID-5

adopted

19

