 

 
ARTICLE 29  DATA PROTECTION WORKING PARTY 

 

 

 

WORKING PARTY 29 POSITION PAPER on the derogations from 

the obligation to maintain records of processing activities 

pursuant to Article 30(5) GDPR 

enterprises, this Regulation includes a derogation for organisations with fewer than 
250 employees with regard to record-keeping’. 

employing fewer than 250 persons unless the processing it carries out is likely to 
result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, the processing is not 
occasional, or the processing includes special categories of data as referred to in 
Article 9(1) or personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences referred 
to in Article 10.’ 

 
The Working Party 29 has examined the obligation, under Article 30 of the 
GDPR, for controllers and processors to maintain a record of processing activities. 
This paper sets out the WP29’s position on the derogation from this obligation. 
Recital 13 of the GDPR says: 
 ‘To take account of the specific situation of micro, small and medium-sized 
 Article 30(5) gives effect to Recital 13. It says that the obligation to keep a 
record of processing activities does not apply ‘to an enterprise or an organisation 
Some clarifications on the interpretation of this provision appear necessary, as 
shown by the high number of requests coming from companies and received in 
the last few months by national Supervisory Authorities.  
 The derogation provided by Article 30(5) is not absolute. There are three types of 
processing to which it does not apply. These are: 
 ·         Processing that is likely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of data 
subjects. 
 ·         Processing that is not occasional. 
 ·         Processing that includes special categories of data or personal data relating 
to criminal convictions and offences. 
 

This Working Party was set up under Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC. It is an independent European advisory body on data protection 
and privacy. Its tasks are described in Article 30 of Directive 95/46/EC and Article 15 of Directive 2002/58/EC. 

The  secretariat  is  provided  by  Directorate  C  (Fundamental  Rights  and  Union  Citizenship)  of  the  European  Commission,  Directorate 
General Justice, B-1049 Brussels, Belgium, Office No MO-59 02/013. 
Website: http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/news.cfm?item_type=1358&tpa_id=6936 

The WP29 underlines that the wording of Article 30(5) is clear in providing that 
the three types of processing to which the derogation does not apply are 
alternative (“or”) and the occurrence of any one of them alone triggers the 
obligation to maintain the record of processing activities. 
 
Therefore, although endowed with less than 250 employees, data 
controllers or processors who find themselves in the position of either carrying 
out processing likely to result in a risk (not just a high risk) to the rights of the 
data subjects, or processing personal data on a non-occasional basis, or 
processing special categories of data under Article 9(1) or data relating to 
criminal convictions under Article 10 are obliged to maintain the record of 
processing activities. 
However, such organisations need only maintain records of processing 
activities for the types of processing mentioned by Article 30(5). 
For example, a small organisation is likely to regularly process data 
regarding its employees. As a result, such processing cannot be considered 
“occasional” and must therefore be included in the record of processing 
activities.1 Other processing activities which are in fact “occasional”, however, do 
not need to be included in the record of processing activities, provided they are 
unlikely to result in a risk to the right and freedoms of data subjects and do not 
involve special categories of data or personal data relating to criminal convictions 
and offences. 
The WP29 highlights that the record of processing activities is a very useful 
means to support an analysis of the implications of any processing whether 
existing or planned. The record facilitates the factual assessment of the risk of the 
processing activities performed by a controller or processor on individuals’ 
rights, and the identification and implementation of appropriate security 
measures to safeguard personal data – both key components of the principle of 
accountability contained in the GDPR.  
For many micro, small and medium-sized organisations, maintaining a 
record of processing activities is unlikely to constitute a particularly heavy 
burden. However, the WP29 recognises that Article 30 represents a new 
administrative requirement for controllers and processors, and therefore 
encourages national Supervisory Authorities to support SMEs by providing tools 
to facilitate the set up and management of records of processing activities. For 
example, a Supervisory Authority might make available on its website a  
simplified model that can be used by SMEs to keep records of processing activities 
not covered by the derogation in Article 30(5). 
 
1 The WP29 considers that a processing activity can only be considered as “occasional” if it is 
not carried out regularly, and occurs outside the regular course of business or activity of the 
controller or processor. See WP29 Guidelines on Article 49 of Regulation 2016/679 (WP262).   

                                                           

