
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    03/18/2020
                                School lessons in times of the Corona crisis©
                            athree23 / pixabay.comSince the schools in the state are closed until April 17, 2020, many schools are asking the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information which data protection-compliant instruments can be used to transport both school interaction and learning content.
The State Pedagogical Institute has published a summary on this.
Further information is available via the municipal media centres.
With regard to the use of non-European software products, reference should be made to the flyer on school data protection. It must be ensured that confidentiality towards third parties is guaranteed. Irrespective of the technical design of a service in detail (e.g. through end-to-end encryption), this can possibly also be achieved by avoiding a personal reference as far as possible. Pseudonyms can be agreed for chat rooms, for example, and a stream of a presentation with audio commentary may be sufficient to replace frontal teaching, without the students or teaching staff having to be visible. The provision of teaching and learning material without personal reference via publicly available services (e.g. homepage) does not raise any objections.
The school should also note: A contract for order processing must be concluded between the school and the service provider (sample text). The parents should be informed in advance about the data processing operations (especially in relation to the provider) (sample). If the school receives personal data from parents or students (e.g. private e-mail addresses), this is only permitted on the basis of a declaration of consent from the parents (or from the age of 16 from the students). This should indicate that the consent is voluntary and that children do not have to fear any disadvantages if they or their parents refuse their consent. Please also note the information on the use of video-supported communication technology for school lessons
                                return
                            



