1/32

 File No.: PS/00191/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), dated ***DATE.1,
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter,
AEPD). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The complaining party reported that several media outlets published in
their websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a rape
multiple, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was
very mediatic The complaining party provided links to the news published in
the claimed media websites.

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the complaining party was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it was still available.

SECOND: Dated ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, being aware of the
following extremes:

During the investigation actions, publications were found, more than
those initially denounced by the complaining party, where the voice of the complainant could be heard
undistorted victim. Among them, the following CONECTA5 publication
TELECINCO, S.A.U, with NIF A82432279 (hereinafter, the claimed party):

***URL.1

On ***DATE.4, the defendant was notified of a precautionary withdrawal measure
urgent content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that
will be unidentifiable in the web address from which this was accessible
content.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/32

On ***DATE.5, a letter sent by this entity was received by this Agency
informing that it had proceeded to give immediate and full compliance to the
practiced requirements; verifying the deletion of the news.

FOURTH: On April 25, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, classified as
in article 83.5.a).

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a brief of allegations on May 10,
2022 in which, in summary, he stated that:

1.- The voice is not considered as a personal data, because not all own attribute and
individual of a person is a personal data, but only those that
identify or allow us to identify the specific person.

For this purpose, it invokes Opinion 4/2007 on the concept of personal data of the Group
of Labor of Article 29, which indicates that a person can be considered "identified"
natural person when, within a group of people, he is "distinguished" from all
other members of the group; the natural person is "identifiable" when, although not
has yet identified it, it is possible to do so. And that the identification is achieved
normally through specific data that we can call "identifiers" and that
They have a privileged and very close relationship with a certain person.

It indicates the claimed party that never identified the victim basically because
He was unaware and still is unaware of that identity. And that the information he gave was
limited to some circumstances of the event, to procedural information, the sex of the
victim and her voice.

It states that in order to consider whether the voice is sufficient to identify the person,
circumstances must be taken into account. And that in the case that
we are concerned with, the voice, as can be verified in the recordings issued in its day,
is the typical and normal appearance of a young Spanish woman, without any particular accent or
characteristics that define it, a fact that he considers should not be left aside, since
it is about assessing whether the voice alone is capable of individualizing the victim among a
certain group, daring to say that this group is so indeterminate and wide
like that of young women (...) ***LOCATION.1. Therefore, he denies
categorically that the voice can single out the victim among all the women
young people who were in ***LOCATION.1 on the day of the events.

For all these reasons, it considers that neither the voice nor the information it disclosed are identifiers
enough to single out the person within the reference group to the point
that it can be identified.

He goes on to indicate that another element that he considers particularly important to ponder
is that of the necessary means for the identification of a person, invoking the
effect recital 26 of the GDPR:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/32

“(26) The principles of data protection must be applied to all information
relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. Personal information
pseudonyms, which could be attributed to a natural person through the use of
additional information, should be considered information about a natural person
identifiable. To determine whether a natural person is identifiable, consideration must be
account all means, such as singling, that you can reasonably use
the data controller or any other person to directly or
indirectly to the physical person. To determine if there is a probability
reasonable that means are used to identify a natural person, they must
take into account all objective factors, such as costs and the time required
for identification, taking into account both the technology available at the time
treatment and technological advances. Therefore, the principles of
data protection should not apply to anonymous information, i.e.
information that does not relate to an identified or identifiable natural person,
nor to the data made anonymous so that the interested party is not
identifiable, or cease to be. Consequently, this Regulation does not affect the
processing of said anonymous information, including for statistical purposes or
investigation.

He concludes from the foregoing that the mere and hypothetical possibility of singling out a
individual is not sufficient to consider the person as identifiable, and that, if
taking into account the set of means that can reasonably be
used by the data controller or by any other person, there is no such
possibility or is insignificant, the person should not be considered as identifiable and
the information should not be classified as personal data, as is the case in the
present case.

On the other hand, it considers that the justification that makes the initiation agreement to the
ruling of the Supreme Court, of the First Civil Chamber (ruling 661/2016 -
rec. 3318/2014-) cannot be used to correctly assess their actions all
time that in that case, the recruitment and dissemination carried out by a television channel
Regarding a trial of a victim of gender violence, he referred to the issuance of
close-ups of the victim, his first name and his place of residence, which are
sufficient identifiers to single out the victim to the point that they can
be reasonably identified by a third party, whereas in the present case, the
claimed party limited himself to divulging a typical and normal voice of a young woman
Spanish, without any particular accent or characteristics that define it.

He concludes by indicating that since the voice is not enough to single out the
victim to the point of identifying it, there is no processing of personal data, therefore
that the application of any of the principles enshrined in the GDPR is not appropriate,
in particular the principle of minimization of treatment.

2.- The origin of the information must be taken into account, since it was the Court that
the case is being investigated by the person who distributed the informative material, including the testimony of
the victim with his own voice, among the majority of the communication media of the
country.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/32

Consider this element of transcendental importance when evaluating and qualifying
the facts analyzed, since the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the Union
European Union of February 14, 2019 (Case C 345/17, Sergejs Buivids), which also
invokes the agreement to initiate this procedure, "it mentions various criteria
to ponder between the right to respect for privacy and the right to freedom of
expression”, among which are, “the manner and circumstances in which it is
obtained the information and its veracity.

It presumes that, when the Court made such information available to the media,
communication, he would have considered that it was going to be published as it was
had distributed, and that this distribution would not violate the rights of the victim,
Otherwise, either I would not have distributed it or I would have done it with the voice
distorted or with clear instructions to proceed with its distortion, which has not
happened.

He ends by saying that this circumstance is what caused the non-application of the
filters and controls that are normally applied in cases like the one at hand, since
there was a "legitimate expectation" that the material provided by the Court
it could be published without further ado, which he considers an undoubted defense.

3.- An incorrect assessment of the fine has been made, since they have taken into account
has a series of aggravating factors but no mitigating factors, specifically:

- The absence of a history of previously committed infractions.
- The degree of cooperation with the AEPD in order to remedy the
alleged infringement and mitigate the adverse effects of the infringement, since
immediately received the adoption of a provisional measure, proceeded to eliminate the
notice and fully comply with the requirements practiced.

- Adherence to the Digital Pact for the protection of people.
- The unique and isolated nature of the alleged infringement.

On the other hand, regarding the aggravating circumstance of intentionality or negligence, he does not agree
I agree that the AEPD considers that the claimed party has been negligent by not
ensure a procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data,
Well, what has happened is that the audio has been broadcast as it was broadcast by the
own Court, in such a way that if there is negligence, it is on the side of the Court itself
Court.

SIXTH: On May 24, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
penalize CONECTA5 TELECINCO, S.A.U., with NIF A82432279, for an infraction
of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, with a fine of
€50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

SEVENTH: Notification of the proposed resolution in accordance with the established rules
in the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a brief of allegations on June 6,
2022 in which, in summary, he stated that:

1.- Regarding the fact that the voice is a personal data:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/32

a) Denies that the dissemination of the victim's voice has entailed the real risk that the
itself could have been identified by people who were unaware of its status as
victim, understanding the claimed party as "certain risk" "the materialized risk, in
versus potential or hypothetical risk.”

It considers that this risk has not materialized since there is no evidence that the victim has
been identified by people who were unaware of such condition, since it has not received
no claim in this regard. The defendant understands that "if the victim
had been identified by people close to her who were unaware of her status as
due to the dissemination of his statement (voice) by CONECTA5, this person would have
been the first to exercise any rights and legal actions that could
assist."

b) It wonders what additional information has been disseminated or was available to "that
largest segment of the population" to which the proposed resolution alludes in order to be able to
identify the victim beyond the fact that she is a young woman and that she
was in ***LOCATION.1 the day he was the victim of a sexual assault.

c) It reiterates that the voice of the victim, together with the rest of the information that was
available by the population, are not sufficient identifiers to be able to single out
the victim to the point of identification.

d) He does not deny that the voice has features that make it unique, but he denies that such a voice can
single out the victim among all the young women who were in
***LOCATION.1 on the day of the events.

e) It reiterates the criticism it made in the allegations to the initial agreement regarding the
invocation of the Judgment of the Supreme Court, of the First Civil Chamber,
judgment 661/2016 (rec. 3318/2014).

2.- Reiterates the allegations that the source of the information was the Court.

It indicates that "in other cases we have received clear instructions from the
communication offices of the courts with regard to the treatment of the
distributed information. Which did not occur in the present case.”

Invokes letter e) of section 5 of the 2020 Justice Communication Protocol,
regarding the criteria for recording images of the parties involved in the
oral trial, where, the defendant indicates, "No mention is made of the need
to apply any treatment to the voice, considering, we understand, that it is not
broadly enough to identify the victim.”

3.- He considers the allegations made in his previous letter to have been reproduced, so
subsidiary, against the graduation of the fine.

Points out that, despite what the motion for a resolution indicates, it must be applied as
mitigating adherence to the Digital Pact for the protection of people, since
“refrained from identifying the victim and did not disseminate any information that, with
general character, would have served to identify him.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/32

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On ***DATE.1, the claimant filed a claim with the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection denouncing that various media
communication had published on their websites the audio of the statement before the
judge of a victim of multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the
holding the trial in a case that was highly publicized, providing links to the
news published on the websites of the claimed media.

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the claimant was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it was still available.

SECOND: On ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

THIRD: The General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection, in the exercise of its
investigative activities, found a publication of the Respondent where
could hear the victim's voice undistorted at the following address:

***URL.1

FOURTH: On ***DATE.4, the defendant was notified of a precautionary measure
urgent removal of content or distorted voice of the victim in such a way that
will be unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this was accessible
content, specifically:

***URL.1

FIFTH: On ***DATE.5, this Agency received a letter sent by
this entity informing that it has proceeded to give immediate and complete
compliance with the requirements practiced.

SIXTH: It is proven in the report of previous actions of investigation of
dated January 24, 2022, which verified what was stated by the party claimed in
his brief of ***DATE.5, that is, it was verified that the news is no longer available in
this address:

***URL.1

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/32

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Regarding the various considerations made by the defendant regarding the
considering the voice as personal data, it should be noted that the voice of a
person is personal data and identifies or makes it uniquely identifiable,
regardless of the number of people who can recognize it and the data
additional to the assumption.

Indeed, the voice fits perfectly into the definition of what is data from
personal nature of article 4.1) of the GDPR:

“Personal data”: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each physical person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin, his hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of the expression, the idiolect or the intonation, are also data of
personal character considered together with the voice.

Voice is produced when air passes from the lungs through the airways.
(windpipe) and through the larynx, causing the vocal cords to vibrate, creating
Sound. Sound that becomes words thanks to the muscles that control the
soft palate, tongue and lips, without forgetting the cavity where
find these muscles, which acts as a sounding board. How can
appreciate, there are various organs involved in speech, different in each
of people, in fact, and by way of example, the vocal cords of the
Men are longer and thicker than those of women and children, which is why the
voice of those is deeper than that of these, like the sound of a double bass
It is deeper than that of a violin.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/32

But even so, not all men's vocal cords are equally long, which is why
for which there are men with a more or less serious voice, as happens with those of
women, which is why there are women with more or less high-pitched voices.

In addition, we have already seen that not only the
vocal cords, but many more organs that, depending on their strength and
structure will make each voice unique and different. Therefore, we can identify the
people we know by voice without having to see them (for example, when
we have a telephone conversation with someone close to us or
we heard someone acquaintance on the radio). In fact, the responding party acknowledges
In his pleadings to the proposed resolution that we are "capable of
remember no more than a few dozen voices”, which implies that we can
identify those people. Therefore, anyone who knows the victim
You can identify her by hearing her voice.

The assertion made by the claimed party saying that the voice of the victim is the
“typical and normal of a young Spanish woman”, and therefore, she cannot be identified
among all the young women who were there on car day in
***LOCATION.1 is subjective and general, as much as saying that young women
Spaniards have the same image. If it is obvious that not all of that segment of the
population has the same image, since it is clearly visible that each
person has some traits that make it unique, the same happens with the voice, due to
that the morphology of the organs involved in its production are different in
each of them.

Along the same lines, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency
states that "the image, as well as the voice of a person is personal data, just like
that it will be any information that allows to determine, directly or indirectly, its
identity (…)"

In fact, the National Court Judgment dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes data of a personal nature, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
as
"any information concerning identified or identifiable natural persons",
This question is not controversial."

The victim's voice identifies her directly in her environment (understood in a
broad sense, encompassing the family and the social), since, as determined in
Opinion 4/2007 of the Article 29 Working Group, "it can be considered
"identified" a natural person when, within a group of people, they are
"distinguishes" from all other members of the group.

It is clear that the voice of any person, regardless of whether their features are
more or less marked, you can make it be identified at least by
those who are part of the circle closest to the victim or who may know her
anyway. Let's imagine relatives or colleagues from work or studies,
social activities etc For this reason, the diffusion of the voice of the victim has meant the
certain risk that it could have been identified by people who

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/32

They were unaware of their status as a victim. Which is a particularly serious fact in a
event like the one that gives rise to the news.

It is not possible to share the interpretation made by the claimed party about what is
must be understood by “certain risk”, which, according to its criteria, is that risk that has been
materialized, as opposed to potential or hypothetical risk.

In the field of data protection, the Guidelines of the Working Group of Article
29 on the impact assessment related to data protection (EIPD) and for
determine whether the treatment is "likely to carry a high risk" for the purposes of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, adopted on April 4, 2017 and last revised
and adopted on October 4, 2017, defines what a risk is: “A “risk” is a
scenario that describes an event and its consequences, estimated in terms
severity and probability.

In line with the foregoing, recital 75 of the GDPR provides that "The
risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, serious and
variable probability, may be due to data processing that could cause
physical, material or immaterial damages and losses...", making it clear that the
Risk is a circumstance that can give rise to damages of all kinds, without
need to materialize.

Likewise, if we go to the Dictionary of the Spanish Language, we will find that
"Risk" is defined as "contingency or proximity of damage." And "true" as
"known to be certain, certain and indubitable."

Consider that "certain risk" is, only and exclusively, that risk that has been
materialized, and therefore, has caused damage, would imply excluding from the concept
those contingencies that, being certain, certain and indubitable, have been neutralized
and they have not caused any harm.

Therefore, "certain risk" is one that is "certain, sure and indubitable", one that
exists, regardless of whether or not it has ultimately caused harm. What translates
in the present case, in which it is indifferent whether or not someone has identified the
victim through her voice, because the truth is that there was a risk that someone would
will identify.

It is also irrelevant the consideration made by the defendant regarding the fact that
"If the victim had been identified by people around him who were unaware of his
status as such due to the dissemination of his statement (voice) by CONECTA5, it
person would have been the first to exercise any legal rights and actions
who could assist you.", because the truth is that, even in the absence of claims, the
The claimed party has the obligation to respect the principles related to the treatment of
personal data covered by article 5 of the GDPR and be able to prove it
based on the principle of proactive responsibility (art. 5.2 of the GDPR).

On the other hand, the voice also makes the victim indirectly identifiable to a
larger segment of the population if combined with other data, even with
additional information, depending on the context in question. Again the Opinion
4/2007 clarifies that "In cases where, at first sight, the identifiers

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/32

available do not make it possible to single out a specific person, this person can still be
"identifiable", because that information combined with other data (whether the
responsible for their treatment is aware of them as if not) will allow
distinguish that person from others. (underlining is ours).

That the data controller, in this case the media, is not
able to identify the victim through his voice, does not mean that he is not
identified by people in your environment and identifiable by third parties, including the media
of communication with additional elements that can also be obtained from your
journalistic function.

Let us also bear in mind that, in the case examined, there is a
easier to make the victim identifiable through his voice in response to the
circumstances of the event and the context in which it is made public: within the framework of
a highly publicized judicial procedure, continuously followed by various
media that provide information about the victim, his
environment, the violators, and the violation suffered (which makes up information
additional).

In this sense, recital 26 of the GDPR determines that "...To determine if
a natural person is identifiable, all means must be taken into account, such as the
singularization, which can reasonably be used by the data controller or
any other person to directly or indirectly identify the natural person.
To determine whether there is a reasonable probability that means will be used to
identify a natural person, all objective factors must be taken into account,
as well as the costs and time required for identification, taking into account both
the technology available at the time of treatment such as advances
technological…”

Remember that the purpose of the Fundamental Right to Data Protection
Personal is to protect people without ambiguity and without exception: such protection does not
must decline in this case in response to the greater or lesser number of people who
can recognize, or have recognized, the victim, or the subjective considerations
on its identifiability of the data controller, even more so in this case, given
that what has occurred is the dissemination of a story from a victim of a rape
multiple.

In conclusion, a person can be identified by their voice. The publication of the data
the victim's voice alone and undistorted put her at risk
certain of being identified by people who were unaware of her status as a victim.

Victims of sexual assaults, such as gang rape, have to face
the challenge of resuming his life once the trial is over, trying to overcome the
physical and psychological sequelae derived from the traumatic experience they have suffered.
In this sense, your environment plays a decisive role. Unfortunately, even today
produce situations in which they are stigmatized despite having been the
victims, sometimes even being forced to change their place of residence.

For this reason, it is essential to treat with the greatest care any personal data that
allows you to reveal your identity, prevent you from being recognized as a victim in your environment,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/32

understood in a broad sense. Here the medium plays a decisive role.
communication, since the risk analysis that must be carried out prior to the
publication, and which in the present case we are not aware of, is the last guarantee with which
account the victim.

II

The defendant party reiterates the criticism that it made in the allegations to the initiation agreement
regarding the invocation of the Judgment of the Supreme Court, of the First Chamber of the
Civil 661/2016 (rec. 3318/2014), since this ruling refers to the recruitment and
disclosure, in the development of a trial of a victim of gender violence, of
close-ups of the victim together with his first name and place of residence, which
allows the identification of the person, unlike what happens in the present
case, in which the claimed party has limited himself to divulging "a typical and normal voice
of a young Spanish woman, without any particular accent or characteristics that
define.”

Regardless of the fact that, as already indicated in the motion for a resolution, the
invocation of such sentence in the Legal Basis V of the initiation agreement is
carried out to substantiate that the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information does not
is absolute, we cannot share the opinion of the respondent that it does not
Such judgment is applicable to the present matter. To this end, we will examine the
mentioned sentence:

"1st) The interest of the questioned information is not discussed nor the right of the chain
television company sued to broadcast images recorded during the act of the oral trial of the
criminal case, since there is no limitation in this regard agreed by the body
judicial."

The same could be applied to the present case, that is to say, the interest of the
disputed information or the right of the media to disseminate the
statement of the victim during the act of the oral trial of the criminal case, since it did not
There is no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

"2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the identification of the applicant
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
shots of his face and the mention of his first name and place of residence, he was
also included in the fundamental right of the television channel
demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was limited by the
fundamental rights of the plaintiff to her personal privacy and to her own
image."

In the case that has given rise to this disciplinary procedure, point
controversial is whether the identification of the intervener as a victim of a crime against
sexual integrity by broadcasting the undistorted voice, is also
included in the fundamental right of the requested party to transmit information
truthful or, on the contrary, was limited by the Fundamental Right to Protection
of Personal Data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/32

"3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media.

In the case that we are analyzing, the claimed party should have acted prudently
of the diligent professional, identify the risk, assess it and adopt security measures
measures, avoiding the diffusion of the voice of the victim using procedures
technicians to distort the voice and prevent its recognition, as responsible for the
treatment, within the framework of the Fundamental Right to Data Protection of
Personal character.

Furthermore, in this case there is also additional information, as
as stated in the Fundamentals of Law II, which further facilitates the identification
of the victim through his voice, since we are referring to a procedure
high-profile court case, followed continuously by various media outlets
communication that provide information about the victim, their environment,
the rapists and the violation suffered. In fact, the claimed party itself acknowledges
that the data that have transcended capable of being attributed to the victim, apart from his voice,
are his condition as such, his sex, and the place, date and some details of the rape
multiple.

"7th) The identification of the plaintiff through her image and personal data
indicated and its direct link to an episode of gender violence and other
serious crimes, when the simultaneous or subsequent disclosure of data was foreseeable
referring to how the victim and her aggressor met and how they happened
criminal acts, assumes that the loss of anonymity violates both the right
of the plaintiff in her own image, by issuing her physical features, such as her
personal and family privacy, to the extent that some reserved data,
pertaining to his private life (who went to the Internet to start a relationship or the
intimate content of some of his talks), devoid of offensive entity in a

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/32

situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment in which any
person who watched those news programs and who resided in the locality of the
victim could know who they were referring to, so that the psychological damage inherent in
his status as a victim of crimes was added to the non-material damage consisting of the fact that
knew information about his private life that he had not consented to make public.

In the present case, the identification of the victim by broadcasting his voice without
distort, the additional information previously exposed and its direct link
with a crime against sexual integrity, supposes the loss of the victim's anonymity
to the extent that such data make it possible to identify it from the moment it
anyone who knows her, listen to the video released by the claimed party. AND
This is based on the undoubted fact that the voice, by itself, already identifies it.

IV.

The defendant also reiterates the allegations regarding the origin of the
information was the Court, who distributed the recording among all the media
communication without applying any prior voice distortion procedure or giving
any instructions in this regard.

Beforehand, we must clarify what is the data processing that is being
analyzed in this proceeding. For these purposes, the GDPR defines in its
Article 4.2 the processing of personal data: "any operation or set of
operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data, whether
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration, organization,
structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation,
utilization,
 communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction”. (he
underlining is ours).

And it is the diffusion of the voice of the victim that the claimed party has carried out that is
object of this procedure, not entering within the scope of this other
treatments, such as the sending that the Court makes to the media
communication of the material disseminated by the claimed party.

Once the treatment to be analyzed is delimited, we must identify who is the
responsible for it.

Article 4.7) of the GDPR establishes that it is ""responsible for the treatment" or
"responsible": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other
body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of processing; Yeah
the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the aims and means of the
treatment, the person responsible for the treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by law of the Union or of the States
members;".

As established in Directives 07/2020 of the European Protection Committee
of Data on the concepts of data controller and manager in the
GDPR, the concept has five main components: "the natural person or

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/32

legal entity, public authority, service or other body”, “determines”, “alone or together with
others”, “the purposes and means” and “of the treatment”.

In addition, the concept of data controller is a broad concept, which deals with
to ensure effective and complete protection for the interested parties. It has determined so
the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. For all we will quote the
Judgment of the CJEU in the Google-Spain case of May 13, 2014, C-131/12, the
which considers in a broad sense the person responsible for the treatment to guarantee
“an effective and complete protection of the interested parties”.

It is clear that the claimed party is responsible for the treatment, when deciding on the
purposes and means of processing, as it holds the power to do so by having a
decisive influence on themselves. In this way, the purpose is informative and the
The media encompass decision-making power from the way it is distributed or made available
information available to the public, including its content. the middle of
communication has, in order to fulfill its purpose, once in the
exercise of his journalistic work has collected all the precise information, what
information provided and by what means, in what terms and with what personal data.

Thus, Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of data controller and
in charge in the RGPD specify that "the person in charge of the treatment is the party that
determines why the processing is taking place (i.e. “for what purpose” or “what for”) and
how this objective will be achieved (that is, what means will be used to achieve it)”.

The transfer of the video of the hearing with the undistorted voice of the victim by the
Tried to the media is another data treatment different from the one that
is being analyzed. Therefore, that the origin of the information was the Court not
is sufficient to exempt the claimed party from liability, because what is
is prosecuting is not the provision of information by the Court to the
media, but the treatment for which the party is responsible
claimed, such as the dissemination of personal data such as the voice of the victim.

As soon as the information reaches the media, the latter, as the person responsible for the
treatment, is responsible for complying with the data protection regulations, without
be able to cover the breach of the same in the fact that the Court sent him
thus the information, assuming that such forecast allows you to publish it without
comply with the requirements of the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

Indicates the claimed party in its pleadings to the proposed resolution
that "in other cases we have received clear instructions from the offices of
communication of the courts with regard to the treatment of information
distributed. Which did not occur in the present case.” It also refers to the letter
e) of section 5 of the 2020 Justice Communication Protocol, regarding the
guidelines for recording images.

This section indicates that "In order to reconcile the right to information with the
right to honor, privacy and self-image of the parties involved in the
process, it is recommended to follow these guidelines for recording images:” (the
underlining is ours).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/32

And it is that the communication offices of the courts cannot carry out mandates to
the media, but warnings, recommendations. For this purpose, there
to go to section 6 of the 2020 Justice Communication Protocol, regarding
the protection of personal data, which refers to the transmission, by
part of the communication offices, of the text of the judicial resolution to the media
Communication.

This section contains the text of a warning about the responsibility of the
means of communication in the dissemination of personal data contained in the text of the
judicial resolution that must be included in all shipments to the
media:

“This communication cannot be considered as the official publication of a
public document. The communication of personal data contained in
the attached judicial resolution, not previously dissociated, is carried out in compliance
of the institutional function that article 54.3 of Regulation 1/2000, of July 26,
of the governing bodies of the courts, attributes to this Office of Communication,
for the exclusive purposes of their eventual treatment for journalistic purposes in the
terms provided for in article 85 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European Union and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of persons
physical with regard to the processing of personal data.

In any case, the provisions of the data protection regulations will apply.
of a personal nature to the treatment that the recipients of this information carry out
out of the personal data contained in the attached judicial resolution, which does not
may be transferred or communicated for purposes contrary to the law.” (underlining is
our).

In conclusion, it corresponds to the media, as the person responsible for the
treatment, decide what and how to publish. You might decide to publish the information despite
of the recommendation received, choose not to publish or decide to distort the voice of the
victim in order to avoid being recognized, even in the case of not having received
No warning in this regard. That is to say, that the warning that the
court does not prevent the publication of personal data, in the same way that the
The absence of it does not legitimize the publication of all personal data.

And it is that, if the interpretation defended by the defendant is followed, the treatment
carried out by the media would be totally subordinate or
conditioned by the indications received from the judicial body, this not being the
case.

In view of the foregoing, it can be stated:

1. The data processing carried out by the judicial body and the media
communication are different, not being the subject of this procedure the first
from them.

2. It cannot be argued that the treatment carried out by the media is
finds itself subordinated or totally conditioned by the decisions, which, in matters
of data protection, has previously been adopted by the judicial body.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/32

3. What the media, in this case the claimed party, does
subsequently with the information is not the responsibility of the Court, but of the media
of communication as data controller.

In any case, the GDPR has brought about a transcendental change in the way of understanding
the right to the protection of personal data, being one of the novelties
most relevant proactive responsibility, contemplated in article 5.2 of said
Regulation:

"2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility")."

Proactive liability implies that the data controller is responsible
of the data processing that it carries out. It not only has to comply with the principles
enshrined in article 5.1, but must be able to prove it. That
Responsibility implies the need to make decisions -determination of
the purposes and means of the treatment that is going to be carried out-, as well as to render
accounts for the decisions made.

In this sense, recital 74 of the GDPR provides for the following:

"The responsibility of the data controller must be established for
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In
In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures
and must be able to demonstrate the compliance of the processing activities with the
this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures must have
into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing as well as the
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.” (underlining is
our).

In those cases in which there is a "treatment chain", that is,
different and subsequent treatments carried out by different managers of the
treatment, each person in charge will be responsible for the decisions that they adopt in their field
regarding your treatment. Not being able to protect himself to exempt himself from
its responsibility in what the person responsible for the previous treatment did, as well as
You will not be held responsible for the decisions adopted by the person in charge of the
treatment that is next in the chain.

In this sense, it is worth mentioning the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union
in Fashion ID, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:2018:1039, which rules on a case in
which an e-commerce company inserted the module on its website
social "likes" of the social network Facebook, which implied that they were transmitted to it
personal data of visitors to the trading company's website
email regardless of whether the visitors were members of the aforementioned
social network or if they clicked on the "like" button on Facebook. In its section 74
establishes that "On the other hand, and without prejudice to a possible civil liability
provided for in national law in this regard, that natural or legal person cannot
be held liable, within the meaning of that provision, for operations

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/32

before or after the chain of treatment with respect to which it does not determine
the ends nor the means.

Consequently, any processing operation carried out within the scope of the
claimed (in this case the dissemination of personal data on the occasion of the news)
should be attributed only to the media, regardless of the operations
of treatment that have been carried out previously by other subjects and that, in no way
case, exempt him from his responsibility.

In short, the allegation that the absence of mention of
any part of the court to perform any treatment to the voice allowed him to disseminate
the material without further ado because, as has been exposed, the means of communication
acted as data controller and, as such, had to comply with
the regulations on data protection, applying, among others, with the principle
of data minimization enshrined in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR.

V

The claimed party invokes, in its pleadings to the initiation agreement, the
Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of February 14, 2019
(Case C 345/17, Sergejs Buivids), which "refers to various criteria for
balance between the right to respect for privacy and the right to freedom of
expression”, among which the defendant stands out “the manner and circumstances in
from which the information was obtained and its veracity.

Such ruling was cited in the initiation agreement to show that the
means of communication, for the achievement of its own purposes and the
shaping of free public opinion in a democratic society, can
obtain all kinds of information in the exercise of their journalistic function in order to be able to
later provide to the public.

The reading made now by the defendant of the previous sentence is partial,
every time that it refers to one of the weighting criteria between the right to
respect for privacy and the right to freedom of expression, ignoring the rest, to
that the initial agreement does refer to: "the contribution to a debate of interest
general, the notoriety of the affected person, the object of the report, the
previous behavior of the data subject, the content, form and repercussions of
the publication," in addition to "the manner and circumstances in which it was obtained
information and its veracity. Which implies that not only must be taken into account
account the origin and veracity of the information, but other concurrent circumstances,
as, in the present case, the general interest and notoriety of the affected person.

It has already been indicated in the initiation agreement that, for a matter to be considered of
general interest, of public relevance, will be so not only for the person who intervenes,
but also by the matter to which it refers. Both requirements must be met
resulting, to greater abundance of what is meant in the previous section, than in the
assumption examined the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/32

great interest that is not recognized by third parties, so it can mean
a new penalty to the one already suffered. The victim is an anonymous person and must follow
being so, in such a way that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed.

In the present case, (i) we are not dealing with a figure of public relevance, in which
sense that such relevance is sufficient to understand that it supposes, ex lege, a
dispossession of your fundamental right to the protection of your personal data, and (ii)
although we are dealing with facts "of public relevance", in the sense that they are revealed
as "necessary" for the presentation of ideas or opinions of public interest, that
necessity does not reach the provision of data that identifies the victim.

In any case, this does not mean, as stated in the initial agreement, to provide
of prevalence to a fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more
weight in a specific case, but rather to find a balance between
both to achieve the achievement of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information without distorting the Fundamental Right to Data Protection of
Personal character.

In fact, in this case the defendant proceeded, as a result of the
request made by the AEPD on *** DATE.4, to remove the news from the link
***URL.1. But he could have chosen, as indicated in the aforementioned requirement,
to having distorted the voice of the victim, notwithstanding which the information
would have continued to be available and would continue to be supplied to its full extent,
which shows that to provide this specific information it was not
necessary, under the terms of art. 5.1.c) of the GDPR to disseminate the voice of the victim.

SAW

The claimed party ends, considering the allegations made as reproduced, in
subsidiary way, in its pleadings to the initiation agreement, against the
graduation of the fine, in which he criticized the fact that the
following mitigations:

- The absence of a history of previously committed infractions.
- The degree of cooperation with the AEPD in order to remedy the
alleged infringement and mitigate the adverse effects of the infringement, since
immediately received the adoption of a provisional measure, proceeded to eliminate the
notice and fully comply with the requirements practiced.

- Adherence to the Digital Pact for the protection of people, since
“refrained from identifying the victim and did not disseminate any information that, with
general character, would have served to identify him.”

- The unique and isolated nature of the alleged infringement.

In the first place, regarding the absence of a history of infringements committed
previously, the Judgment of the National Court, of May 5, 2021, rec.
1437/2020, provides us with the answer: "It considers, on the other hand, that it should
The non-commission of a previous infraction can be appreciated as mitigating. well, the
Article 83.2 of the GDPR establishes that it must be taken into account for the imposition of the
administrative fine, among others, the circumstance "e) any previous offense committed
by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment". It is a circumstance

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/32

aggravating, the fact that the budget for its application does not meet entails
that cannot be taken into consideration, but does not imply or allow, as it claims
the plaintiff, its application as mitigation”.

Secondly, the degree of cooperation with the Agency cannot be
be considered a mitigation since the withdrawal orders that it issues are of
mandatory compliance in accordance with the provisions of article 69 of the LOPDGDD. The
consideration of cooperation with the Agency as mitigation, as claimed
the appellant, is not linked to any of the cases in which there may be
a collaboration or cooperation or requirement by reason of a legal mandate, when
the actions are due and required by law, as in the case at hand.

Third, voice is personal data that identifies or makes a person identifiable.
person in an unambiguous way, as we indicate in the Fundamentals of Law II,
Therefore, it cannot be considered as an extenuating circumstance that the party
claimed adheres to the Digital Pact for the protection of people whenever
that what has happened is a clear breach of point 1 thereof: "The
signatories to the Charter will refrain from identifying in any way the victims of
assaults, acts of violence or sexual content in their information or
publish information from which, in general, your identity can be inferred
in the case of people of no public relevance. All this without prejudice to the fact that the
non-public persons may be involved in newsworthy events, in which case
the informative coverage will be the necessary one to give adequate fulfillment to the right
information, taking into account the peculiarities of each case".

On the other hand, the claimed party in its pleadings to the start-up agreement
He also disagreed that there was negligence on his part, since he has issued the audio as
which was disseminated by the Court itself, in such a way that, if there is negligence, it is
on the side of the Court itself. Couldn't disagree more with that.
affirmation. On the one hand, because, as has been stated in the Fundamento de Derecho
IV, what is being analyzed in this procedure is the diffusion of the voice of
the victim without distortion by the claimed party. And on the other hand, because the media
of communication are responsible for the treatment that habitually
distort the voice so that the person speaking is not recognized, such
and as indicated in the initiation agreement when it refers to the negligence of the party
claimed by not ensuring a procedure that guaranteed the protection of data
personal in such sensitive circumstances, since we are referring to a
woman (...) victim of a violent crime and against sexual integrity.

For all the foregoing, all the allegations made by the party are dismissed.
claimed both to the initiation agreement and to the resolution proposal.

VII

The voice of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is personal data
make it identifiable, and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said GDPR:

“Personal data”: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/32

an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each physical person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin, his hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of the expression, the idiolect or the intonation, are also data of
personal character considered together with the voice.

For this reason, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency states that "the
image as well as the voice of a person is personal data, as will be
any information that makes it possible to determine, directly or indirectly, your identity
(…)”

In fact, the National Court Judgment dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes data of a personal nature, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
as
"any information concerning identified or identifiable natural persons",
This question is not controversial."

Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines "processing" as: "any operation or set of
of operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data,
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction.”

The inclusion of a person's voice in journalistic publications, which identifies or
makes a person identifiable, implies a processing of personal data and, therefore,
Therefore, the person responsible for the treatment that carries out the same is obliged to comply with
the obligations for the data controller set forth in the GDPR and in
the LOPDGDD.

VIII

This procedure is initiated because the claimed party published, on the website
referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a
multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case
that was very mediatic. The victim's voice was clearly appreciated when recounting
with all the crudeness of details the multiple rape suffered. All this constitutes a
processing of personal data of the victim.

People have the power of disposal over their personal data, including
his voice, as well as its diffusion, resulting, without a doubt, deserving of
protection of the person whose personal data is disclosed in violation of the law
legal.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/32

Thus, Constitutional Court Judgment 292/2000, of November 30, provides
that "the content of the fundamental right to data protection consists of a
power of disposal and control over personal data that empowers the person
to decide which of these data to provide to a third party, be it the State or a
individual, or which this third party may collect, and which also allows the individual
know who owns that personal data and for what, being able to oppose that
possession or use. These powers of disposal and control over personal data,
that constitute part of the content of the fundamental right to data protection
are legally specified in the power to consent to the collection, obtaining and use of
access to personal data, its subsequent storage and treatment, as well as
its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the State or an individual. and that right to
consent to the knowledge and treatment, computerized or not, of personal data,
requires as essential complements, on the one hand, the ability to know everything
moment who has these personal data and to what use is submitting them, and,
on the other hand, the power to oppose that possession and uses”.

In this sense, and regardless of the legal basis legitimizing the
treatment, all controllers must respect the principles of
treatment included in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR which establishes that:

"1. Personal data will be

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");"

However, we are faced with a fundamental right that is not absolute,
since, if necessary, the Fundamental Right to Data Protection can
give in to the prevalence of other rights and freedoms also constitutionally
recognized and protected, such as, for example, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information, weighing it on a case-by-case basis.

However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that the
treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly publicized case, makes the victim clearly identifiable. By pondering the
conflicting interests and, considering the concurrent circumstances of this case,
that is, the especially sensitive nature of personal data and the intense
affectation of the privacy of the victim, the interest of the owner deserves greater protection
of the right to the protection of your personal data and that they are not disclosed in front of the
claimed public interest in its dissemination.

IX

In the struggle between the Fundamental Rights to Freedom of Information in
relation to the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, even

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/32

when an equal degree of protection is recognized for both constitutional rights,
ordinarily the first is usually endowed with prevalence by our courts, after
assess and weigh all the elements at stake.

However, preponderance does not mean prevalence when, after all the
concurrent circumstances in a specific case, the limits set are exceeded
normatively and jurisprudentially.

In this sense, the Article 29 Working Group in its Opinion 06/2014 on the
concept of legitimate interest of the data controller under the
Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the legal basis of the legitimate interest of the
Article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/CE, fully transferable to the current art. 6.1.f) of
GDPR, includes the right to freedom of expression or information as one of the
cases in which the question of legitimate interest may arise, stating that "without
regardless of whether the interests of the data controller will ultimately prevail
term on the interests and rights of the interested parties when the
weighing test”.

x

That said, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information is not
absolute. We can observe very clear limits established by the courts in the
civil sphere, in relation to the Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
the Image itself.

Thus, we will cite, for all, the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 27/2020, of 24
February 2020 (recurso de amparo 1369-2017) that provides, in relation to the
image of a person, and starting from the incontrovertible fact that it makes
identifiable, that “…the debated question is reduced to pondering if the reproduction does not
consented to the image of an anonymous person, that is to say, of someone who is not
public figure, but who suddenly and involuntarily acquires a role in the
newsworthy fact, in this case as a victim of the failed homicide attempt by
of his brother and his subsequent suicide, implied an illegitimate interference in his
fundamental right to one's own image (art. 18.1 CE).

[…]

…that criminal events are newsworthy events, even with
regardless of the character of private subject of the person affected by the news. Without
However, the limit is in the individualization, direct or indirect, of the victim, since
This data is not of public interest because it lacks relevance for the information
that is allowed to be transmitted (SSTC 20/1992, of February 20; 219/1992, of
December; 232/1993, of July 12; 52/2002, of February 25; 121/2002, of 20
May, and 127/2003, of June 30). Thus, it is currently recognized by Law 4/2015, of 27
April, of the crime victim statute, in force since October 28, 2015,
when he warns of the need "from the public authorities [to offer] a
response as broad as possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims,
not only repairing the damage in the framework of a criminal proceeding, but also
minimizing other traumatic effects on the moral that his condition can
generate, all this regardless of their procedural situation. Therefore, the present

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/32

Statute, in line with European regulations on the matter and with the demands that
raises our society, claims, based on the recognition of the dignity of
victims, the defense of their material and moral assets and, with it, those of the group of
the society". In cases such as those raised in this appeal, this Court must
give relevance to the prevalence of the right to the image of the victim of the crime
against information freedoms, since graphic information became idle or
superfluous because the photograph of the victim lacks real interest for the transmission of
the information, in this case the apparent accomplishment of a homicide and subsequent
suicide” (emphasis added).

We will add the Judgment of the Supreme Court, of its First Civil Chamber,
272/2011, of April 11 (rec. 1747/2008), in which, regarding the necessary data
to provide information and limits to the public interest states that "b) The
trivial information is not protected (ATC 75/2006), but the fact of providing data is not
necessary in a rape case (full name, last initials,
the portal of the street where the victim lived) that have no community relevance, do not
they respect the reserve, they only seek to satisfy curiosity, they produce disturbances or
inconvenience and unnecessarily reveal aspects of personal and private life,
allowing neighbors, close people and relatives to fully identify the
victim and knowledge in great detail of a seriously injurious act
against their dignity (STC 185/2002) or about a disease that has no interest
public and directly affects the irreducible sphere of privacy and that is
reveals the effect of a pure joke or joke (STC 232/1993);”.

Likewise, the Judgment of the Supreme Court, of its First Civil Chamber,
Judgment 661/2016, of November 10 (rec. 3318/2014), in relation to the
capture and dissemination in court of the image of a victim of gender violence
provided that "1st) The interest of the questioned information is not discussed nor the right
of the television channel sued to broadcast images recorded during the act of
oral trial of the criminal case, since there is no limitation in this regard agreed
by the judicial body.

2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the applicant's identification
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
shots of his face and the mention of his first name and place of residence, he was
also included in the fundamental right of the television channel
demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was limited by the
fundamental rights of the plaintiff to her personal privacy and to her own
image.

3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/32

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media. 7th) The identification of the plaintiff through his
image and personal data indicated and its direct link to an episode of
gender violence and other serious crimes, when disclosure was foreseeable
Simultaneous or subsequent data referring to how the victim and her aggressor met
and the way in which the criminal acts occurred, supposes that the loss of the
anonymity would violate both the plaintiff's right to her own image, by the
broadcast of their physical features, such as their personal and family intimacy, to the extent that
that some reserved data, belonging to his private life (who went to the Internet
to start a relationship or the intimate content of some of their talks), lacking
offensive entity in a situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment
in which any person who watched those news programs and who resided in the
location of the victim could know who they were referring to, so that the damage
psychological damage inherent to his condition as a victim of crimes was added to the moral damage
consisting of the disclosure of information about his private life that he had not consented to
make public." (underlining is ours).

As we can see, a clear reference is made to the excessive treatment of
personal data (some of which are not of an intimate nature) to provide the
information, considering them unnecessary at all points in attention to the
concurrent circumstances. Sometimes the courts refer to intimate data,
but sometimes it is personal data that is not intimate, such as, for
For example, the image of a natural person obtained from a photograph published in a
social network or name and surname.

eleventh

In the specific case examined, as we have indicated, the claimed party
published, on the website referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge
of a victim of a multiple rape, to illustrate the news of a very
media.

Thus, it is not a question, as in other cases examined by jurisprudence, of endowing
of prevalence to a fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more
weight in a specific case. If not, rather, to find a balance between
both to achieve the achievement of the purpose of the first without undermining the second.
The reconciliation of both rights is nothing new, since the legislator
European Union mandates such reconciliation in article 85 of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/32

As we have seen previously, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not unlimited, since the jurisprudential interpretation when confronting it
with other rights and freedoms does not allow the same in any case and with all breadth,
but, nevertheless, the prevalence that the courts usually endow it can be seen
limited by other fundamental rights that must also be respected. Thus
observes its limitation when the personal data provided was unnecessary for the
essence of the information content.

We must consider the special circumstances present in the supposed
examined. It is about a woman (...) who has suffered a multiple rape. In the
published recording, she is heard recounting, with great emotional charge, the aggression
sexuality suffered in all crudeness, narrating (...).

In addition, we cannot lose sight of the victim status of the woman whose voice, with
all the nuances exposed, has spread.

Let us remember, for merely illustrative purposes, that Law 4/2015, of April 27,
of the Statute of the victim of crime, as well as the recent Organic Law 10/2022, of 6
of September, of integral guarantee of sexual freedom, foresee a special
need to protect victims of crimes against sexual freedom or
sexual indemnity. In addition, the aforementioned Statute of the victim of crime
it also provides special protection for victims of violent crimes. and in the
case examined both circumstances concur.

In this case, the situation of the victim must be considered (who is not in the
same level of equality as the defendants) and what the diffusion of their voice with
all its nuances, as well as the special protection that the
legal system that, without constraining the supply of information, must be done
compatible with the principle of data minimization, applicable to the form, the
medium in which the information is supplied and disseminated due to the immediate affectation of the data
personnel and the identification of the victim.

Precisely because the obvious informative public interest in the news is not denied,
Given the general interest in criminal cases, in this specific case, it is not a question of
to diminish the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information due to the prevalence
of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, but of
make them fully compatible so that both are absolutely
guaranteed. That is, the freedom of information of the media is not questioned.
of communication but the weighting with the right to data protection based on
to the proportionality and need to publish the specific personal data of the voice. Such
situation could have been resolved with the use of technical procedures to
prevent voice recognition, such as, for example, distortion of the voice of
the victim or the transcript of the report of the multiple rape, security measures
both, applied depending on the case in an ordinary way by means of
communication.

At older we have to mean that the victim is an anonymous person and our
Constitutional Court, for all the STC 58/2018, of June 4, affirms that the
public authorities, public officials and public figures or those dedicated to
activities that carry public notoriety “voluntarily accept the risk of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/32

that their subjective personality rights are affected by criticism, opinions
or adverse disclosures and, therefore, the right to information reaches, in relation to
with them, its maximum level of legitimizing effectiveness, insofar as their life and conduct
morality participate in the general interest with a greater intensity than that of those
private persons who, without a vocation for public projection, see themselves
circumstantially involved in matters of public importance, to which
Therefore, a higher level of privacy must be recognized, which prevents
granting general importance to facts or behaviors that would have it if they were referred to
to public figures".

The Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (Second Chamber), of 14
February 2019, in case C 345/17, Sergejs Buivids, mentions various
Criteria to balance between the right to respect for privacy and the right to
freedom of expression, among which are "the contribution to a debate of
general interest, the notoriety of the affected person, the object of the report, the
previous behavior of the data subject, the content, form and repercussions of
the publication, the manner and circumstances in which information was obtained and its
veracity (see, in this regard, the judgment of the ECtHR of June 27, 2017,
Satakunnan Markkinapörssi
  Finland,
CE:ECHR:2017:0627JUD000093113, section 165)”.

  Oy and Satamedia Oy c.

In such a way that for a matter to be considered of general interest,
public relevance, they will be not only for the person who intervenes, but also for the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must concur, resulting, at greater
abundance of what was meant in the previous section, that in the case examined
the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is of great interest that
is recognized by third parties, so it may entail a new penalty
to the already suffered The victim is an anonymous person and must remain so, in such a way that
so that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed.

In the present case, (i) we are not dealing with a figure of public relevance, in which
sense that such relevance is sufficient to understand that it supposes, ex lege, a
dispossession of your fundamental right to the protection of your personal data, and (ii)
although we are dealing with facts "of public relevance", in the sense that they are revealed
as "necessary" for the presentation of ideas or opinions of public interest, that
necessity does not reach the provision of data that identifies the victim.

For this reason, and as expressed by the Supreme Court in its (civil) judgment 697/2019, of 19
December, the formation of a free public opinion does not require, nor does it justify, the
affects the fundamental right to one's own image [in this case to the protection of
personal data] with that seriousness and in a way that does not save the necessary
connection with the identification of the person object of the information.

It is worth mentioning the breach of point 1 of the Digital Pact for the
protection of persons, signed by the entities involved, which establishes that
"The signatories of the Charter will refrain from identifying the victims in any way.
of assaults, acts of violence or sexual content in their information or
publish information from which, in general, your identity can be inferred
in the case of people of no public relevance. All this without prejudice to the fact that the
non-public persons may be involved in newsworthy events, in which case

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/32

the informative coverage will be the necessary one to give adequate fulfillment to the right
information, taking into account the peculiarities of each case".

twelfth

Every person responsible for the treatment has conferred obligations in terms of
data protection, in the terms prescribed in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD,
being able to highlight, in terms of what interests us, proactive responsibility,
article 5.2 of the GDPR, the assessment of risks and the implementation of measures
of adequate security. Obligations that are even more relevant when, as in
In the case we are examining, this one is particularly sensitive.

Such obligations do not decline because we are before a data controller
that it is a means of communication.

If we add the diffusion of the victim's voice (with all its nuances), which makes it
identifiable and can be recognized by third parties, with the factual account that makes
in relation to the violation suffered, there is a very high and very likely risk that
may suffer damage to their rights and freedoms. This has happened in other cases
of dissemination of personal data of victims of rape crimes. And this, in addition to
that with the diffusion of the voice of the victim she is being sentenced again to
can be recognized by third parties, when it is not a proportional treatment or
necessary in relation to the information purposes pursued.

XIII

The claimed party has processed data that was excessive as it was not necessary for the
purpose for which they were processed, which constitutes an infringement of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR.

The infringement attributed to the claimed party is typified in article
83.5, section a) of the GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the
imposition of administrative fines" provides that:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/32

Article 72. Offenses considered very serious.

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

fourteenth

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, precepts that state:

"Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are effective in each individual case,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

"Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/32

previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
"Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In this case, the following graduation criteria are considered concurrent:

 Aggravating:

- Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR:

Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement: It is considered that the nature of the
infraction is very serious since it entails a loss of disposition and control over
the personal data of your voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and
against sexual integrity and that by disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk
that it could be recognized by third parties, with the serious damages that this
it would cause

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/32

- Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR.

Intentional or negligent infringement: Although the Agency considers that it is not
there was intentionality on the part of the communication medium, the Agency concludes that
was negligent in not ensuring a procedure that guaranteed the protection of the
personal data in such sensitive circumstances, especially when in many
Sometimes the voice in the news is distorted so that it is not recognized
to the person speaking.

- Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR.

Categories of personal data affected by the infringement: The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as the one reporting the news, very serious, violent
and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is seriously detrimental to the
affected, since what happened is linked to their sexual life.

fifteenth

The text of the resolution establishes the offense committed and the
facts that have given rise to the violation of data protection regulations, of
which clearly infers what are the measures to adopt, notwithstanding that the
type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments to implement them
corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is the person responsible for the treatment who
He fully knows his organization and has to decide, based on the responsibility
proactive and risk approach, how to comply with the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CONECTA5 TELECINCO, S.A.U., with NIF A82432279, for
an infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR,
a fine of 50,000.00 euros (FIFTY THOUSAND euros).

SECOND: Confirm the following provisional measures imposed on CONECTA5
TELECINCO, S.A.U.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/32

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to CONECTA5 TELECINCO, S.A.U..

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In the event
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3.a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-120722
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/32

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

