1/9

Procedure No.: PS/00270/2019
938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated March 23, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection against
Vodafone Spain, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (hereinafter, the claimed), in its
in writing, states that he is the owner of several telephone lines contracted with the
reclaimed.

On the other hand, he received an email from the telephone operator for a
purchase you had made. However, when consulting his personal area, he verified that
had been formalized on March 10, 2019, a portability contract, whose owner
it was a third party, without their knowledge, signature or consent. In said contract
your data appeared as the new owner.

He adds that he appeared in the business of the claimed person in the Bahía shopping center

South, on the 12th of the same month and year they proceeded to cancel it.

 
The claimant provides a copy of the complaint filed with the Commissioner for
Police of San Fernando (Cádiz) dated March 12, 2019, sheet of
claims and fraudulent contract.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

This Agency transferred this claim to the respondent by means
electronic, granting a period of one month for its response and it is recorded as
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

date of acceptance by said operator on May 13, 2019. After said
deadline has not answered the requirement of this body.

For this reason, this claim is admitted for processing by
fraudulent contracting without the entity having responded to the Spanish Agency
Data Protection.

THIRD: On September 25, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated "that the claimant denounces that
Vodafone had allowed the execution of a portability contract in its name of
a telephone line owned by a third party, without their knowledge or consent.
The new contract included your personal data as the new owner of the
line.

Vodafone, first of all, wants to state that after receiving the request
of information E/03915/2019, Vodafone analyzed the claim and verified that the
The same had been resolved two days after the request for discharge that took place on 10
March 2019, despite not having responded to the aforementioned request for
information within the period conferred for it.

We understand that these events have occurred due to an error in the management of the discharge
produced in the store. Error that was immediately corrected. In no case is
caused by a fraudulent registration derived from identity theft.

In this sense, it is relevant to highlight the repeal of article 130 of Law 30/1992,
of November 26, on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and the
Common Administrative Procedure. Its substitution by article 28.1 of the Law
40/2015 of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector eliminates the mention of
the "simple non-observance" making the rule "nullum poena sine culpa" prevail.
The foregoing comes only to highlight the lack of room for the
responsibility without fault, principle that governs or must govern in the administrative field
sanctioning, because to the extent that it is a manifestation of "ius puniendi" of the State,
It is inadmissible in our legal system a liability regime
no fault
In this sense, it indicates Judgment of the Constitutional Court number 219/1988, and this
for being inadmissible a system of strict liability or without fault as
it also comes to point out Judgment 246/1991. I cannot be penalized
represented for infraction of article 6.1. of the RGPD, without reference to the
subjective element of the type, not proving fraud, guilt, or negligence.
Additionally, taking into account the special nature of penalizing law
that determines the impossibility of imposing sanctions without taking into account the will
of the acting subject or the factors that may have determined the breach of a
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

legal obligation, this part maintains the inadmissibility of the imposition of sanctions
some.
Thus, the Supreme Court in Judgment of December 21, 1998 (RJ1998/10226)
(Recourse of Appeal 9074/1991), January 27, 1996 (RJ 1996\926) (Recourse of
Appeal 640/1992) and January 20, 1997 (RJ 1997\257) (Appeal
2689/1992)". The Supreme Court also points out in a Judgment of July 20,
1990, Ar. 6163,
Well, as can be seen, in the behavior described there is no
intentionality, neither by way of intent, nor by way of guilt. Therefore, do not
If there is any guilt, it is totally inadmissible to impose a sanction
any to my client, as long as one of the essential requirements of the
Sanctioning Administrative Law.
For all these reasons, neither represented understands that what is appropriate is for the AEPD to agree on the
dismissal of this file and the file of the proceedings since the
facts have occurred without any intention on the part of my client and
It seems that due to some kind of error. Subsidiarily and in the event that
Despite the explanations provided above, the Agency understood that my
represented is deserving of a sanction for the commission of an infringement of art.
6.1. of the RGPD, the amount of said sanction must be moderate, imposing in its
minimum amount, taking into account the following circumstances set out in art.
83.2 of the GDPR:
It is requested, therefore, to agree: The dismissal of the file, with the consequent
record of proceedings. Subsidiarily and in the event that despite the
explanations previously provided, the Agency understands that my client is
deserving of a sanction for the commission of an infraction of article 6.1 of the
RGPD, the amount of said sanction must be moderated, imposing its amount
minimum”.
FIFTH: On October 25, 2019, the practice period for
evidence, remembering: a).- to consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim
filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and
generated that are part of file E/03915/2019 and b).- consider reproduced
evidentiary effects, the allegations to the initiation agreement of PS/00270/2019,
presented by the accused entity.
SIXTH: On November 29, 2019, it was issued and notified on December
the same year to Vodafone the Resolution Proposal, for alleged infringement of article
6.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, proposing a fine of
€75,000.

Vodafone presented arguments to the Resolution Proposal, stating

which is reiterated in the allegations already made to the Home Agreement.

PROVEN FACTS

From the information and documentation provided by the parties in this procedure,
prove the following facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

1º On March 23, 2019, the claimant files a claim before
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, stating that the claimed
had formalized a portability contract on March 10, 2019, at its
name of a telephone line owned by a third party, without your knowledge,
no consent. The new contract contained their personal data
staff as the new owner of the line.

2º The Spanish Data Protection Agency transferred this
claim to the claimed by electronic means, granting a term of
one month for its answer and it appears as the date of acceptance by said
operator on May 13, 2019. After this period, he did not answer the
aforementioned requirement.

3º The claimant filed a complaint with the Police Station of San
Fernando (Cádiz) on March 12, 2019, claim sheet before the Board
of Andalusia and fraudulent contract.

4th On October 9, 2019, the respondent acknowledges not having
answered the request for information, and that on March 12,
2019, two days later said line was terminated.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of the
Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

1. The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed violated article 6 of the RGPD, since the aforementioned entity tried to
unlawfully the personal data of the claimant, as there is no consent
for the treatment of your personal data, materialized in that when consulting your area
staff verified that on March 10, 2019, a contract of
portability, whose owner was a third party, without their knowledge or consent. In
said contract contained his data as the new owner and the data of the third party (name,
DNI and contact telephone number), had requested portability as a change of
ownership from his old Orange company to the account owned by the
claimant at Vodafone.

The Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in
similar assumptions has considered that when the owner of the data denies the
consent bears the burden of proof on the person who asserts its existence
the person responsible for the processing of third-party data must collect and keep the
documentation necessary to prove the consent of the holder. Thus, the SAN of
05/31/2006 (Rec. 539/2004), Fourth Law Basis.

The claimant provided, among other documents, a complaint before the Commissioner for
Police of San Fernando (Cádiz) dated March 12, 2019, sheet of
claims before the Junta de Andalucía and fraudulent contract.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

On the other hand, it should be noted that the respondent acknowledges not having

responded to the request for information from this Agency.

 
In short, it should be noted that respect for the principle of legality of data
requires proof that the owner of the data consented to the processing of
personal data and display a reasonable diligence essential
to prove that point. Failure to act in this way would result in emptying the content of the
legality principle.

III

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that
point out:

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

          "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the sanction of
fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in article 83.5.a) of the
RGPD for which the claimant is responsible, the following are considered concurrent
factors:

-

The intentionality or negligence in the infringement. In the present case we are
before unintentional negligent action (paragraph b).

- The data controller has NOT taken, as far as is known,
no measure to mitigate the damages suffered by the interested parties
(section c).

- The data controller has NOT exercised, up to now,
no cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement (paragraph
F).
The categories of personal data affected by the infringement,
The data processed in this case, are of a markedly personal nature and therefore
person identifiers (section g).
The way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement.
In this case, through a complaint filed by the claimant (section h).

-

-

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction to be imposed in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance
with the following criteria established in article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD:

The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal data, (section b).

-

-

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD,
with respect to the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 6.1 of the
RGPD allows to set a penalty of 75,000 euros (sixty-five thousand euros),
considered as "very serious", for the purposes of prescription of the same, in the 72.1.a of
the LOPDGDD.
           

v

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a
violation of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine
€75,000.00 (euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

