International Working Group
on Data Protection
in Telecommunications
 
711.391.1
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

August 14, 2018

PRESS RELEASE

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Data protection for cross-border data requests for law enforcement purposes

Berlin Group demands standards

 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (so-called Berlin Group), the
headed by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Ms. Maja Smoltczyk
at its 63rd meeting on April 9 and 10, 2018 in Budapest (Hungary), adopted the working paper
standards for data protection and the protection of privacy in cross-border data
law enforcement requirements adopted.
 
As more and more data is shared and stored around the world, law enforcement agencies are requesting
investigations increasingly require access to personal data located outside
located at their national borders. In view of these developments, governments and international
nal organizations are increasing their efforts to facilitate access to cloud data. the
However, cross-border requests for information raise complicated data protection issues
on.
 
Traditional arrangements for international coordination by law enforcement agencies apply
with a view to the increasing frequency and complexity of cross-border data requests
ponderous. Alternative mechanisms, such as voluntary agreements between providers and
foreign authorities may be subject to different and opaque standards.
If they lack legal force, they offer little security for the protection of the rights of the persons concerned.
to.
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications outlined in their recent
published working paper the current developments in the field of cross-border data
ask for law enforcement. It calls on the stakeholders involved to promote a
rapid processing of legitimate cross-border data requests, the interests of data protection
security and privacy at all times and gives recommendations on how this can be guaranteed.
 
The working paper can be accessed at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org.
 
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (“Berlin Group”)
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications
Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications – IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin Group”) consists of
representatives of data protection authorities and organizations from all over the world dealing with the protection
deal with privacy. The working group was established in 1983 as part of the International Data Protection Conference
renz was founded on the initiative of the Berlin State Data Protection Authority, which has chaired it ever since. Since her
When it was founded, the working group made a large number of recommendations (“Common Positions” and “Working Papers
re”) to improve the protection of privacy in telecommunications. Since the beginning of
In the 1990s, the group was particularly concerned with protecting privacy on the Internet.
 
More information about the working group and the documents adopted by the group can be found on the
Website of the working group available: http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org.
 
 

secretariat
Berlin representative for
Privacy and Freedom of Information
Friedrichstr. 219
D-10969 Berlin
Telephone +49 / 30 / 13889 0
Fax: +49 / 30 / 215 5050
 

E-mail:
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
Internet:
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org

 

The Working Group has been initiated
by Data Protection Commissioners
from different countries in order
to improve privacy and data protection
in telecommunications and media

