International Working Group 
on Data Protection 
in Telecommunications 
 
711.391.1 
  
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
14 August 2018 

 

P R E S S  R E L E A S E 

 

 

 

 

Data protection in cross-border data requests for law enforcement purposes 

Berlin Group calls for standards 

 
  

The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (so-called Berlin 
Group), chaired by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja 
Smoltczyk, has adopted the Working Paper ‘Standards for data protection and personal privacy 
in cross-border data requests for criminal law enforcement purposes’ at its 63rd meeting in Bu-
dapest (Hungary) on 9 and 10 April 2018. 
  
Law enforcement has become an international undertaking. As data is more and more exchanged 
and stored around the world law enforcement authorities increasingly seek access to personal data 
held beyond their national borders in criminal investigations. In the light of this development trans-
border access to cloud data has been identified as high priority by governments and led them to take 
actions in this field. However, cross-border data requests present difficult questions of compliance 
with national and international data protection and privacy standards. 
  
Traditional arrangements to facilitate international coordination by law enforcement agencies as they 
work now are said to be overburdened by the increasing frequency and complexity of cross-border 
data requests. However, alternate arrangements for transferring data, like voluntary arrangements 
between providers and foreign governments, can be subject to varied or unknown standards, do not 
have force of law, and so provide little assurance of protection for the rights of data subjects. 
 
In its recently published Working Paper the Berlin Group urges that current and future legal frame-
works must maintain strong data protection standards and makes recommendations for appropriate 
safeguards. The Working Group calls on governments and international organisations to preserve 
data protection and privacy interests while encouraging prompt and adequate processing of legiti-
mate cross-border data requests.  
 
The Working Paper is available for download at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org   
 
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (“Berlin Group”) 
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (IWGDPT, a.k.a. “Berlin Group”) 
includes representatives from Data Protection Authorities and international organisations dealing with privacy 
matters from all over the world. It was founded in 1983 in the framework of the International Conference of 
Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners at the initiative of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection, 
who has since then been chairing the Group. The Group has adopted numerous recommendations (“Common 
Positions” and “Working Papers”) aimed at improving the protection of privacy in telecommunications. Since 
the beginning of the 90s the Group has focused particularly on the protection of privacy on the Internet. 
 
More information about the Work of the Group and the documents adopted by the Group are available for 
download on the website of the Group at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org.   

Secretariat 
Berliner Beauftragte für 
Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit 
Friedrichstr. 219 
D-10969 Berlin 
Phone   +49 / 30 / 13889 0 
Fax:      +49 / 30 / 215 5050 
 

E-Mail: 
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de 
 
Internet: 
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org 

 

The Working Group has been initiated 
by Data Protection Commissioners 
from different countries in order 
to improve privacy and data protection 
in telecommunications and media 

