THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

June 21, 2022

 Municipal data protection competition – submission deadline

extended until August 15, 2022 at the request of municipalities

 

Cities, municipalities, municipal associations and district offices can

submit proposals now until August 15, 2022 and data protection

help shape The best ideas are awarded.

Looking for creative and innovative proposals, the theme

Explaining and implementing data protection at municipal authorities is the responsibility of the

State representative

for data protection and

Freedom of Information

Baden-Württemberg called for a competition for the first time.

Municipal bodies can participate in the competition.

The submission deadline for proposals has now been extended from July 17th by request

extended by municipalities and set for August 15, 2022. In order to

the public authorities have more time to submit their projects.

Ideas are needed, such as data protection in municipal affairs

conveyed even better and explained in an understandable way in the service of the citizenry

can be - for example, which data municipal authorities for what exactly

allowed to use. Also, for example, proposals can be submitted

as with employees, the implementation of data protection

can be facilitated. As competition entries, for example

Educational videos, information signs, stickers for the work PC or a

- 2 -

innovative data-saving technology or procedure that has been used so far

can replace extensive data processing.

Who can enter the competition?

Municipal authorities in Baden-Württemberg can take part, i.e. everyone

Cities, municipalities, municipal associations and district offices. The ideas

can be submitted to the state representative by August 15, 2022

will. An expert jury will select the best submissions

and award. The three best submissions will be awarded.

The award is public. In addition, the state representative

the competition and, if desired, the participants at his

homepage and in the forthcoming activity report. The communal

You are welcome to put your participation and performance on yours

promote websites.

Further conditions of participation and information about the competition are available

the

home page

of

State representative:

https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/municipal-data-protection-competition-2022/

 

 

