1/5

Procedure No.: PS/00335/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before Mr.
A.A.A., by virtue of a claim filed by D. G. DE LA POLICIA - COMISARIA
JUDICIAL POLICE - NARCOTICS (hereinafter, the claimant) and based on
the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claim filed by the Security Forces and Bodies of the
State has entry dated 07/19/2018 in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data. The claim is directed against A.A.A., with NIF ***DNI.1 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

“…the investigators observed how the property had security cameras.
security in windows, hidden in object and without any type of visible poster that
will communicate such end” (folio nº 1).

“The facility detected had no other purpose, according to police criteria, than to carry out
carry out the illicit activity of drug trafficking with greater security, since with the
cameras could perfectly detect the police presence in the area (...)”—folio nº
1--.

SECOND: On 01/09/2019, the Start Agreement was TRANSFERRED
of the sanctioning procedure with reference number PS/00335/2018 to the part
denounced, to certify in law that it was in accordance with the legality
in force, being notified on 12/11/2018, by the Official Postal Service.

THIRD: On November 23, 2018, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of article 5 of the RGPD in connection with article 6 of the
mentioned normative text, infringement typified in article 83.2 of the RGPD and
classified as very serious, since the installed system is affecting the rights of
third parties and with a diversion of the purpose of the same to be oriented towards space
public.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 07/19/18, a claim from the
State Security Forces and Bodies through which the
installation of various video-surveillance cameras blatantly oriented towards
public space.

SECOND: It is accredited as the main person in charge of the property Mr. A.A.A.,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

with DNI ***DNI.1.

THIRD: The presence of several operating devices is accredited
focusing on the public road, with the purpose of controlling it.

 Camera 1: placed in the front room on the 1st floor on the left.
 Camera 2: hidden inside a doll and focusing outwards.

FOURTH: It is not accredited that you have the mandatory information poster
informing that it is a video-monitored area, informing the person in charge of the
file.

FIFTH: The Start Agreement of this procedure has been notified according to
acknowledgment of receipt issued by the Official Postal Service, without any manifestation
any has occurred by the accused party.

SIXTH: The evidence provided points to the control of public space for reasons of
the alleged "illicit activity" that takes place in the property, which allows
greater capacity to react to actions by the Security Forces and Corps
State Security.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

Article 5 RGPD provides the following: “Personal data will be: c) adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed (“data minimization”);

It should be remembered that individuals can install video cameras
surveillance, but that they must take responsibility that they comply with the regulations
in force, avoiding the capture of public and/or private space by third parties without cause
justified.

The system must have an informative device in a visible area
indicating that it is a video-monitored area, indicating the person in charge of the
himself, before whom he can address himself effectively.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding areas, adjoining buildings or dwellings and vehicles other than those accessing
to the guarded space.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

Individuals cannot install a video-surveillance system with

orientation towards the public thoroughfare, in order to control such space.

This type of device can "process personal data", not
being one of the exceptions in the RGPD when it comes to having the
consent of those affected (article 6 RGPD).

Article 4 section 3 of Instruction 1/2006 (AEPD) provides the following:

“Cameras and video cameras installed in private spaces may not
obtain images of public spaces unless it is essential for the
surveillance purpose that is intended, or it is impossible to avoid it by reason of the
location of those. In any case, any data processing should be avoided.
unnecessary for the purpose pursued” (*underlining belongs to this body).

Therefore, capturing images of public spaces by security cameras
private surveillance, must be limited to what is strictly necessary, applying in any case
the principle of proportionality.

III

Article 83 section 5 of the RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of
the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with fines
administrative fees of EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, of
an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

b) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the RGPD, in its
art. 58.2 b) establishes the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what
stated in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

IV

In the present case, the installation of a video-surveillance system is accredited
with clear affectation towards public space, to control access to the property,
being developed in the same according to police statement "illegal activity of
drug traffic".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

The person responsible has been identified as Mr. A.A.A., as an inhabitant of the Flat

1st Left, located at ***ADDRESS.1.

Article 77 section 5 Law 39/2015 (October 1)-LPAC-provides the following:

“The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
condition of authority and in which, observing the legal requirements
corresponding the facts verified by those are gathered will prove of
unless proven otherwise”.

It is recorded in the computer system of this body that it has been notified in
time and forms the Start Agreement of PS/00335/2018, as certified by the Service
Post and Telegraph Officer.

Therefore, the respondent party is considered to have been widely
informed of their rights and obligations, voluntarily renouncing to carry out
any allegation.

Article 71 of the new Organic Law on Data Protection and Guarantees of

Digital Rights (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides the following:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

Furthermore, a passive attitude towards the Resolutions of this
body, could lead to the initiation of a sanctioning procedure, which could
carry a pecuniary fine, for the infraction classified as very serious of article 72.
section 1 letter m), which provides:

“Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the protection authority
data controller in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

v

In accordance with the foregoing, the administrative infraction is accredited, by the
installation of video-surveillance cameras, capturing public roads in a way
disproportionate, without stating any allegation about the cause/reason for such
extreme.

Based on which it proceeds to warn the accused party, who must
immediate way to dismantle the cameras from their current place, accrediting such
end to this organization by means of a photograph with date and time that proves such
extreme.

In case of persisting in an attitude of non-collaboration with this body, such
extreme will be taken into account when grading a hypothetical sanction
administrative of a pecuniary nature, considering that it has been widely

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

informed in this regard and fully assuming the legal consequences of their
acts.

A "new" complaint, confirming the presence of cameras abroad
of the property, will lead to the initiation of a new sanctioning procedure, in
where the fact that it has already been warned by this body will be taken into account,
this aspect that can affect a hypothetical graduation of the sanction
economy to impose.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED to WARN Don A.A.A., for the continued infraction of the
content of article 5 in connection with article 6 of the RGPD, in the terms of the
article 58.2 RGPD letters b) and d), in such a way that you must within ONE MONTH to
counting from the day following the notification of this administrative act, prove
before this organism that has proceeded to.

 Remove the exterior camera(s), providing a photograph with the date and time that

certify such extreme before this organism.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Mr. A.A.A., and, in accordance with art. 77.2
of the RGPD, INFORM the claimant-- D. G. OF THE POLICE - POLICE STATION
JUDICIAL -NARCOTICS- on the result of the claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 114.1 c) of
the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

