  

The ICO exists to empower you through information. 

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF 
T. 0303 123 1113 
ico.org.uk 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

 

 

 

 

To: Optionis Group Limited 

Of: Kd Tower, Cotterells, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, HP1 1FW 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Optionis Group Limited (‘Optionis’) in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of 
the UK General Data Protection Regulation in respect of certain 
infringements of the UK GDPR.   
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Optionis in respect 
of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 5(1)(f) which states:  

 
“personal data shall be processed in a manner that ensures 
appropriate security of the personal data, including protection 
against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental 
loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or 
organisational measures (‘integrity and confidentiality’)”. 
 

•  Article 32(1) which states: 

“taking into account the state of the art, the costs of 
implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of 
processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for 
the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and the 
processor shall implement appropriate technical and organisational 
measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk.” 

 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 

•  Optionis did not have appropriate organisational measures in place 
to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of their systems. Optionis 
had no clear Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) policy, and an 

 

inadequate account lockout policy. The National Cyber Security 
Centre (‘NCSC’), recommends having appropriate account lockout1, 
and a BYOD policies2 in place. Had these elements been addressed 
sooner, it could have significantly reduced the likelihood of a 
successful attack. 
 

•  Optionis did not have multi-factor authentication (‘MFA’) in place for 
the affected user account. Extensive guidance was available via the 
NCSC which promoted the use of strong or multi-factor 
authentication.3 Additional means of authentication serve to make 
unauthorised access more difficult and help to protect particularly 
sensitive or private personal data.  
 

Aggravating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that Optionis held 
personal data for longer than was necessary. We have also noted that 
Optionis took 11 months to notify all individuals of the breach. Optionis 
explained that the analysis of the impacted personal data took a 
considerable amount of time to complete, in particular, due to the size of 
the dataset.  
 
Mitigating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that the Covid-19 
pandemic would have led to Optionis having to respond quickly to allow 
colleagues to work from home. The work from home arrangements had 
been in place for approximately 2 years before the incident took place, 
therefore, we did not consider the Covid-19 pandemic a sufficient 
mitigation to lower the level of regulatory action. 
 
Remedial steps taken by Optionis 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by Optionis in light of this incident, in particular:  
 

•  Correcting all underpayments to individuals by 6 February 2022. 

 

1 Password policy: updating your approach - NCSC.GOV.UK 
2 Bring your own device (BYOD) - NCSC.GOV.UK 
3 Multi-factor authentication for online services - NCSC.GOV.UK 

 

•  Commissioning a third-party cyber security firm to investigate 

 
 this incident and liaising with its IT consultants for advice 

and assistance with remedial measures. 

•  Implementing a comprehensive set of policies to protect and control 

the security of personal data. 

•  Deploying 24/7 Managed Detection and Response (EDR) covering all 

corporate devices. 

•  Enabling multi-factor authentication (MFA) on user accounts. 
•  Enforcing conditional access on user accounts. 

 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
aggravating factors, mitigating factors and remedial steps, the 
Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Optionis in relation to 
the infringements of Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1) of the UK GDPR set 
out above. 
 
 
 

