Case number: NAIH / 2019/1189 /

Subject: Partial decision granting the application

DECISION
Before the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
(address: […] hereinafter referred to as the "Applicant") managed by […] (established in […], hereinafter referred to as the "Applicant")
access to your personal data and information about the personal data you handle
The following data protection proceedings have been initiated in response to a request for a refusal
make a decision.

I. The Authority shall respond to the application in part
gives place,
and finds that the Applicant did not comply with the Applicant’s request for access in 2012
data beyond the lease.
II. A copy of the contractual documents containing the personal data shall be submitted to the application
shall be rejected by the Authority.
III. For all these reasons, the Authority will charge the Applicant for the unlawful data processing it has carried out
HUF 300,000, ie three hundred thousand forints
data protection fine
obliges to pay.
The fine shall run from the expiry of the time limit for bringing an action for judicial review
the target forint settlement account for the collection of centralized revenues of the Authority within 15 days from
(10032000-01040425-00000000 Centralized direct debit account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425
0000 0000). When transferring the amount, NAIH / 2019/1189. JUDGE. should be
to refer to.
If the Applicant fails to meet the obligation to pay the fine within the time limit, a late payment allowance
is obliged to pay. The rate of the late payment interest is the statutory interest, which is the calendar affected by the delay
equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the first half of the year. Fines and penalties for late payment
In the event of non-payment, the Authority shall order enforcement of the decision, including fines and late payment
recovery. Recovery of fines and late payment in the manner of taxes by the National
Tax and Customs Office.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but it has been available since its notification
Within 30 days, an action brought before the Metropolitan Court may be challenged in an administrative lawsuit. THE
the application shall be submitted to the Authority, by electronic means, which shall forward it together with the file
to the court. The request for a hearing must be indicated in the application. The whole personal
for those who do not benefit from an exemption, the fee for the court review procedure is HUF 30,000;
subject to the right to record material duty. Legal representation is mandatory in proceedings before the Metropolitan Court.

2

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
In his application received by the Authority on 23 January 2019, the Applicant submitted that a lease
in the context of a legal relationship in which the Applicant is the lessor, the Applicant is the lessee,
despite his request, he did not inform about the processing of the Applicant's personal data and is concerned
documents created in the course of the tenancy were not handed over to him.
In view of all this, the Applicant initiated the initiation of the official procedure and as a result a
requested the Authority to send them documents.
According to the petitioner's e-mail dated 5 November 2018, the
Requested to be sent “digitally” to him from the very first contract
all documents and correspondence and informed the Applicant that it was in accordance with the GDPR
exercise its right of access.
Requested in his e-reply dated 7 November 2018 […]. pdf filename attached
A copy of the lease agreement concluded between the Applicant and the Applicant and informed that
you will not be able to send previous paper-based correspondence electronically, but it is for that
access can be provided by another department. Applicant did not then indicate which
handles the personal data of the Applicant.
By e-mail dated 9 November 2018, the Applicant indicated that he had a claim on paper
However, the reply from the Applicant will not be issued until 2019.
received on January 22nd.
By e-mail sent on 22 January 2019, the Applicant informed the Applicant that
paper-based documents related to correspondence with the Applicant are not in the archives
are stored.
Before the Authority, at the request of the Applicant, the right to information self - determination and the
CXII of 2011 on freedom of information Section 60 (1) of the Information Act (hereinafter: the Information Act)
NAIH / 2018/1189 initiated a data protection official procedure.
The Authority requested the NAIH / 2019/1189/3 to initiate the data protection authority proceedings.
in order no. In the same order, the Authority, in order to clarify the facts,
Ákr. He invoked the Applicant to make a statement with reference to § 63.
In its reply to the Authority received on 1 March 2019, the Applicant
NAIH / 2019/1189/3. provided with a 15-day response to the fact-finding order
requested an extension of 15 days, which was granted by the Authority.
In its reply to the Authority received on 19 March 2019, the Applicant informed the
Authority that the lease between the parties was concluded on 1 January 2002, which the parties
01 was extended. On behalf of […], […] acted, which is the rent for a period of 8 days
made an offer to amend the Applicant, to which the Applicant did not respond, thus the submission of the offer
upon termination of the obligation, the lease concluded on January 1, 2012 between the Applicant and the Applicant
the provisions of the contract remained in force. Subsequently, the Applicant challenged the civil law contract
and then in an e-mail sent by the Applicant to the Applicant on 05 November 2018
sending copies of all documents resulting from the first contract; and
requested information on the processing of his personal data. The Applicant sent on November 7, 2018
informed the Applicant in its electronic reply that the rental file attached under the […] pdf file name
cannot send a document other than the contract to the Applicant before
paper-based documents have been archived, access to them by another
colleague can provide. Subsequently, the Applicant in a letter dated November 9, 2018 to the archives

3

also requested the provision of documents from the Applicant, which the Applicant requested in January 2019
He replied by e-mail dated 22 December, informing him that the
cannot provide anything other than electronic correspondence on the subject, the other letter is
are not stored in the archives in connection with the Applicant.
According to the reply of the Applicant to the Authority received on 7 May 2019, the Applicant
the lease agreement entered into on January 1, 2012 and the lease agreement entered into on January 1, 2012
archived on paper, Act C of 2000 on Accounting. Based on. Of these, the previously concluded lease
contract dated 7 November 2018 and the subsequent lease dated 21 February 2019
forwarded to the Applicant. As set out in points 4 and 9 of the Applicant's reply
additional paper document in order to fulfill the obligations and in connection therewith
(such as invoices and tax-related statements required by law) only for rent
in respect of a third party entitled to issue an invoice for the fee, not in relation to the Applicant.
II. Applicable legal provisions
On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of Regulation 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter "GDPR")
the general data protection regulation applies to all or part of personal data
automated processing of personal data and non-automated processing of personal data
which are part of a registration system or which are
intended to be part of a registration system.
Pursuant to Article 2 (2) (c) GDPR, the GDPR does not apply to personal data
natural persons solely in the course of their personal or domestic activities
carried out. According to recital 18 in the preamble to the GDPR, it is a personal or domestic activity
such as correspondence, directory storage, and said personal and domestic activities
social networking and online activities.
Pursuant to Article 12 (1) to (3) of the GDPR, the controller shall take appropriate measures to that effect
in accordance with Articles 13 and 14 on the processing of personal data
all the information referred to in paragraphs 15 to 22. and Article 34 shall be concise,
in a transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible form, worded in a clear and comprehensible manner
particularly in the case of any information addressed to children. You are in writing
otherwise, including, where appropriate, by electronic means. Oral at the request of the person concerned
information may be provided provided that the identity of the data subject has been otherwise established.
The controller shall facilitate the exercise of their rights under this Article. Article 11 (2)
In the cases referred to in paragraph 15, the controller shall to exercise their rights under this Article
may not refuse to comply with his request unless he proves that he is not present
way to identify.
The controller shall, without undue delay, but in any case upon receipt of the request
shall inform the data subject within one month of the following an application under Article
measures. If necessary, taking into account the complexity of the application and the number of applications, this
the time limit may be extended by a further two months. On the extension of the deadline, the data controller a
within one month of receipt of the request, stating the reasons for the delay
the data subject. If the person concerned submitted the application electronically, the information shall be provided as far as possible
shall be provided by electronic means, unless otherwise requested by the data subject.
Pursuant to Article 15 (1) of the GDPR, the data subject has the right to receive feedback from the controller
whether your personal data is being processed and if so
data processing is in progress, you have the right to access personal data and the following information
get access to:

4

(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been disclosed
or will be communicated, including in particular to third country recipients or international
organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible,
criteria for determining this period;
(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
rectification, erasure or restriction on the processing of such personal data and may object to the processing of such personal data
against;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information on their source;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
understandable information about the significance of such data processing and what it is for the data subject
with expected consequences.
Pursuant to Article 15 (3) of the GDPR, the controller is the personal data subject
provide a copy of the data to the data subject. For further copies requested by the data subject,
the controller may charge a reasonable fee based on administrative costs. If concerned
submitted the application electronically, the information is widely used electronically
shall be provided in a format other than that requested by the data subject.
The Authority shall inform Infotv. With regard to Section 61 (1) (a), pursuant to Section 58 (2) of the GDPR
may apply legal consequences.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) of the GDPR, acting within the corrective power of the supervisory authority
condemn the data controller or the data processor if its data processing activities have violated this
provisions of this Regulation. According to point (d) of the same paragraph, the supervisory authority is corrective
instruct the controller or processor, acting in accordance with its powers, to carry out its data processing operations,
where appropriate and within a specified period, bring this Regulation into line
provisions.
III. Decision of the Authority
III.1. Applicant 's right of access
III.1.1. With regard to the examined data management, it arose in connection with the lease agreement
information on the Applicant in the documents shall be provided by the Applicant in accordance with Article 4 (1) of the GDPR
personal data, the Requested Data Controller, the processing of documents in internal procedures
its use constitutes data processing under Article 4 (2) of the GDPR, subject to the rules of the GDPR
apply.
III.1.2. The Applicant's request to exercise the right of access and issue of a copy in 2018.
sent it to the Applicant by e-mail on 5 November. The applicant for the lease
He sent it on November 7, 2018, but requested a copy of the paper correspondence referred to therein
did not send or inform the Applicant about the handling of his personal data, but did not provide information about it
informed the Applicant that the paper documents had been filed.
The Applicant declares that, contrary to the previous information, it does not deal with the Applicant
paper-based correspondence, only informed the Applicant by e-mail dated 22 January 2019.
In view of the above, the Authority concludes that the Applicant is the Applicant
only partially fulfilled his right of access by sending the lease.
The Authority does not accept the argument in the reply sent by the Applicant that

5

the Applicant 's letter did not contain an express request to request information from the
About the personal data managed by the Applicant, as the Applicant is dated electronic on 05 November 2018
his letter expressly stated that “consider my request that I wish to live under the GDPR
to obtain information and data held about me and the other parties, and
my right of access ’.
The Applicant would have acted lawfully if the request had been
forward it to the department or the Data Protection Officer and shall request the Applicant
within the time limit laid down in Article 12 (3) of the GDPR,
it shall reject its application in respect of the other Contracting Parties.
The content of the information obtained under the right of access is basically divided into three categories
can be classified in terms of content: the fact of data management, actually handled by the data controller
personal data and the relevant circumstances of data processing. By requesting the
only one of the Applicants wishing to exercise their right of access and information
sent a lease within the prescribed time limit, caused a violation of the Applicant's right of access.
Furthermore, during the reply, the Applicant did not inform the Applicant of his right to a legal remedy,
in breach of Article 15 (1) of the GDPR. (f).
The Applicant submitted a further request to the Authority at the same time as the
To the Applicant, the Applicant replied on 21 February 2019. The exercise of the rights of the data subject in this
The request made to the applicant authority by
the information thus provided is to be ordered only in the present case
measures.
The Authority shall provide the Applicant's application with contractual documents containing personal data
rejects the part relating to the sending of a copy because it is in the Requested Part of the Authority
requests for data prior to the initiation of the proceedings and in part after the initiation of the proceedings
performed during.
III.2. Legal consequences
III.2.1. The Authority shall inform Infotv. With regard to Section 61 (1) (a), Article 58 (2) of the GDPR
may apply the legal consequences of
The Authority grants the Applicant's request in part and Article 58 (2) (b) GDPR
condemns the Applicant as a data controller on the basis of the
The provisions of Article 12 (3) of the GDPR and Article 15 of the GDPR.
The Authority refused to send the Contractor the contract documents
as the Applicant provided these documents to the Applicant by letters dated 07 November 2018 and 21 February 2019.
The Authority examined of its own motion whether a data protection fine against the Applicant was justified.
imposition. In this context, the Authority will amend Article 83 (2) of the GDPR and Infotv. 75 / A. §
all the circumstances of the case and found that, in the case of the infringements found in the present proceedings,
the warning is neither a disproportionate nor a dissuasive sanction, so a fine should be imposed. THE
In imposing the fine, the Authority took into account the following factors:
The infringement committed by the Applicant falls into the category of Article 83 (5) (b) GDPR
as the violation committed by the Applicant is related to the exercise of the rights of the data subject.
III.2.2. In setting the fine, the Authority assessed the following:

6

• the Applicant acted negligently in not properly informing the Applicant
processing of your personal data and your request for access
fulfilled;
• the Applicant did not recognize the application for the exercise of the rights of the data subject, so his / her reply
acted improperly;
• not to convict the Applicant for violating the General Data Protection Regulation
took place;
• the Applicant forwarded his / her request to the Applicant after the commencement of the procedure
copies of documents.
The imposition of a fine is necessary for the Applicant with respect to additional violations
despite the exercise of the rights of a single party in the present case
it is a related infringement.
In view of the above, as well as the fact that the Applicant has sales revenue according to its 2017 report
more than HUF 28 billion, the data protection fine imposed is a token amount and does not exceed the
maximum fine that may be imposed.
The amount of the fine was determined by the Authority acting in accordance with its statutory discretion.
Based on the above, the Authority Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), in the operative part
decided in accordance with the provisions of.
ARC. Other issues
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) defines its jurisdiction as a whole
country.
In the course of the procedure, the Authority exceeded the Infotv. 60 / A. § (1) is one hundred and twenty days
administrative deadline, therefore Ákr. Pursuant to Section 51 b), it pays ten thousand forints to the Applicant.
The Ákr. Pursuant to § 112 and § 116 (1) and § 114 (1)
there is an administrative remedy against him.
The rules of the administrative lawsuit are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Rules of Administrative Procedure (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Pursuant to Section 13 (11)
the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. Act CXXX of 2016 on Civil Procedure.
Act (hereinafter: Pp.) - the Kp. Applicable pursuant to Section 26 (1) - Pursuant to Section 72 a
legal representation is mandatory in litigation within the jurisdiction of the tribunal. Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6) - if
law does not provide otherwise - the filing of an application is an administrative act
has no suspensive effect.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter: E-Administration Act) § 9 (1) (b), the customer’s legal representative
obliged to keep in touch.
The place and time of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The trial
Information on the possibility of requesting the maintenance of the It is based on § 77 (1) - (2). THE
the amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. Act (hereinafter: Itv.)
44 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1) and
Section 62 (1) (h) exempts the party initiating the proceedings.
If the required compliance is not duly demonstrated by the applicants, the Authority shall:
considers that the obligation has not been fulfilled within the time allowed. The Ákr. According to § 132, if the debtor

7

has not complied with an obligation contained in the final decision of the authority, it shall be enforceable. The Authority
decision of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final with the communication. The Ákr. Pursuant to § 133
enforcement, unless otherwise provided by law or government decree, is the decision-making authority
order. The Ákr. Under Article 134 of the Enforcement - if by law, government decree or municipal
in the case of an official matter, the decree of the local government does not provide otherwise - the state tax authority
implements. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (7), it is included in the decision of the Authority
an obligation to commit an act, to behave in a certain manner, to tolerate or to cease
implementation of the decision shall be carried out by the Authority.
Budapest, May 23, 2019

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

