 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.387.1
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

May 25, 2018

A turning point in data protection

New data protection law: be careful, but don't panic!

 
 
 
As of today, the European General Data Protection Regulation applies. Kick it with her
new Federal Data Protection Act and numerous state laws in force.
 
The self-imposed claim of the regulation is high: Stronger data protection rights of about
510 million citizens of the European Union on the one hand. On the
other side aims to free movement of personal data in one of the largest
Economies of the world neither restricted nor
be prohibited.
 
The regulation must now prove whether they exist in this tension
becomes. From the first Commission draft more than six years ago, to its publication on
May 4, 2016 and most recently stepped up on the home straight towards the application was over
Regulation much discussed.
 
However, a reformed data protection law is particularly important in times of Big Data and the
Digitization is right and important to avoid endangering people's freedom, about their
to determine data yourself, to counteract it.
 
However, under the regulation, clubs must continue to use their indispensable
fulfill social tasks and companies develop competitive business models
can develop in the future.
 
General Data Protection Regulation and Federal Data Protection Act
The European General Data Protection Regulation becomes directly applicable law and replaces it
thus largely the German data protection law. National regulatory leeway exists
only to a limited extent. The new Federal Data Protection Act sets individual
Regulatory tasks of the ordinance and creates supplementary regulations where
opening clauses allow it. It comes into force at the same time.
 
Example data protection officer: The regulation allows the obligation to appoint a
or a data protection officer in national implementing laws to other bodies
to expand The federal legislature has this scope for regulation in the new
Federal Data Protection Act used to enforce the obligation to designate operational
Adapt the data protection officer to the "status quo" in Germany.
 

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 0
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

 
sanctions and advice
At the forefront of the debate are fears that violations of the
regulation can be punished with fines in the millions in the future. unmentioned
It often remains that the regulation provides the supervisory authorities with a “toolbox”.
has given hands to each individual case of data protection abuses appropriately
remedy. Fines are just one of many possibilities. In the first place is the
Advisory. The supervisory authorities will also make use of sanctions – however
with a sense of proportion. There are a number of ways in which the amount of a fine can be specifically determined
of aspects to be included: type, severity and duration of the violation, but also whether and
how it worked with regulators to remedy breaches, and whether
these were communicated independently.
 
European Data Protection Board and Data Protection Conference
National data protection authorities will work together in a new format: The
The European Data Protection Board is intended to ensure that the interpretation of the law is Europe-wide
is unified. In individual cases, its decisions will be binding. the
Data protection conference will continue to focus on practice in Germany in the future
Clarify questions of interpretation and application of the General Data Protection Regulation. One
An overview of their resolutions and guidance is available here:
https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/veroeffentlichungen.html
 
The short papers have proven to be particularly helpful – statements by the
Data Protection Conference, as in their opinion, the regulation in practice
particularly practice-relevant topics should be applied. Especially in practice
the short papers for data protection officers (No. 12), employee data protection (No.
14), video surveillance (No. 15) and in particular action plan "DS-GVO" for
Company (No. 8). The briefs are available here:
https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/kurzpapiere.html
 
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
"The GDPR aims to protect the right to privacy of citizens in a
to protect the digitized world and to give them the means to defend themselves against the
to effectively prevent misuse of their data. Data trading is not national
Limits stop, so this is an almost epochal step to secure
civil rights, but also of equal competition. Because from now on everyone has to
companies offering products or services on the European market
follow the same strict rules. This will no doubt also take over the European
lead to a strengthening of the right to privacy.”

 

