Complementary opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
data relating to bill no. 7475 amending the
amended law of 26 July 2002 on the police and on the operation of
Luxembourg airport as well as the construction of a new
terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation relating to the safety of
civil aviation and conditions of access to Luxembourg airport
 

Deliberation n° 31/AV15/2022 of July 21, 2022

 

1. In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter c), of European Regulation 2016/679
of April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive
95/46/EC (hereinafter the “GDPR”), as well as in article 46, paragraph 1, letter c), of the directive
(EU) 2016/680 of April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the
processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of
prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of
criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the framework decision
2008/977/JHA of the Council (hereinafter “Directive 2016/680”), each supervisory authority has the
mission of advising "in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the
government and other institutions and organizations regarding legislative measures and
administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to
of treatment”.
 

2. Article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for
data protection and the general data protection regime specifically provides
that the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter the "Commission
Nationale” or the “CNPD”) carries out the missions entrusted to it by virtue of Article 57 of the
GDPR, while article 8, point 3°, of the said law of 1 August 2018 is based on article 46,
paragraph 1, letter c), of the aforementioned Directive 2016/680 by providing that the CNPD "advises
the Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other institutions and bodies regarding the
legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data”.
 

3. On December 17, 2019, the National Commission notified Bill No. 7475
amending the amended law of 26 July 2002 on the police and on the operation of
Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a new terminal (hereinafter the
"draft law"), on the one hand, and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on aviation security

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

1/28

 

 
 
 
 

civil law and the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport (hereinafter the “draft regulation
grand-ducal”), on the other hand1.
 

4. On October 20, 2021, the Council of Government adopted a series
of government amendments relating to the bill and the draft regulation
ducal.
 

5. Insofar as the amended provisions have been commented on by the Commission
national in its aforementioned opinion and that the latter has not been seized for an opinion, it shall self-seize
to provide comments below.
 

I. General remarks

 

 

1. On the compliance of the legal provisions of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation with the

Constitution

6. If the draft law specifies the data controller, the draft regulation
ducal seems to regulate the modalities of the processing of personal data which
would be implemented through background checks.
 
The draft Grand-Ducal regulation intends in particular to provide for the elements on which
would carry the background check requests as well as the “information
considered and decision criteria”2 relating to said requests.
 

7. It should be asked whether the normative framework, as provided for by the texts under
opinion, is likely to be constitutional. Indeed, it should be noted that
Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Constitution establishes as a matter reserved to the law the exceptions
State guarantee of the protection of privacy 3.
 
Moreover, article 32, paragraph 3, of the Constitution provides that “[i]n matters
reserved to the law by the Constitution, the Grand Duke cannot issue regulations and decrees
that by virtue of a specific legal provision which sets the objective of the enforcement measures and
where applicable the conditions to which they are subject”.
 
Since the revision of October 18, 2016 of the said article, “the Constitutional Court considers that in
the matters reserved the essential elements are within the domain of the law, while the elements

                                                           
1 See deliberation n°59/2019 of 17 December 2019 of the National Commission for Data Protection, doc.
speak. No. 7475/01.
2 New Article 14 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
3 See in this sense M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, n°619.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

2/28

 
 
 
 

less essential can be relegated to regulations and decrees issued by the Grand Duke. She
thus adopts the position of the settlor, shared by the Council of State, which consists in ensuring
to the executive power the ability to regulate the details of reserved matters, the principles and
essential points remaining in the domain of the law. According to the settlor, simple framework laws fixing
a few major principles and abandoning the essential rules of substance and form to x
implementing regulations do not meet these constitutional requirements. If elements
essential are in the domain of the law, the measures of execution, that is to say elements more
techniques and details, may fall within the domain of the Grand-Ducal regulatory power”4.

 
8. Moreover, it follows from judgment no. 114/14 of November 28, 2014, of the Court
constitutional, that the essential elements should not appear exclusively in the law
national, but may result additionally from a European standard or
international.
 
Nevertheless, the National Commission considers that the provisions of the implementing regulation (EU)
2019/103 of 23 January 2019 amending Regulation (EU) 2015/1998 as regards the
clarification, harmonization and simplification as well as the strengthening of certain measures
specific aviation security procedures with respect to background checks would not be
not precise enough.
 
Indeed, the aforementioned implementing regulations specify:

- with regard to the ordinary background check that it must at least "(a)
establish the identity of the person on the basis of documents; b) take into consideration the
criminal record in all states of residence within the last five years; vs)
consider jobs, studies and interruptions during the five
recent years”5;

- as regards enhanced background checks, that these should at least
take into consideration the aforementioned elements as well as “take into consideration the
information from intelligence services and any other relevant information whose
competent national authorities have and believe that they can present a
interest in assessing a person's ability to perform a function that requires
enhanced background checks.
 

9. However, it should be noted that the draft Grand-Ducal regulation intends in particular to provide
that data is collected for purposes different from those of origin, and that
access, where applicable, to the Grand Ducal Police's own files is provided for as part of
background checks.

                                                           
4 See M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, n°19.
5 Section 11.1.4. of the implementing regulation (EU) 2019/103 of January 23, 2019.
6 Article 11.1.3., letter d) of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/103 of 23 January 2019.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

3/28

 
 
 
 

Therefore, shouldn't such elements be provided for in a law and not in a
grand-ducal regulations?
 

10. Thus, there is reason to ask whether the draft Grand-Ducal regulation is likely to
not be in conformity with the aforementioned constitutional provision. Shouldn't we ensure a
application of the principles of normative framework mentioned above with regard to the distinction between
what must, in essence, come under the law in the strict sense and what can be the subject of a
normative framework by a regulatory text?7

 
2. On the relationship between the provisions of the GDPR and the law of 1 August 2018 relating
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security
 

11. It is appropriate to question the articulation of the provisions of the GDPR and those of the law of
August 1, 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security while
that certain processing of personal data implemented by the texts under notice
are likely to be initially subject to the provisions of the aforementioned law of August 1, 2018
then subsequently subject to the provisions of the GDPR.
 

12. However, this problem does not arise for the processing that would be implemented
implemented by the Grand-Ducal Police within the framework of the draft law and the draft Grand-Ducal
ducal. Indeed, it follows from article 1, paragraph 2, letter a), of the law of 1 August 2018 on
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, that the processing
carried out by the Grand Ducal Police, as part of the background check, fall
within the scope of this law.
 

13. This problem seems to arise for the processing of personal data
personnel carried out by the minister as well as by the commission, set up by article 1 of the draft
of law.
 
Indeed, it emerges from the commentary to the articles with regard to the exchange of information between
the Grand-Ducal Police and the minister in charge of the Grand-Ducal Police (hereafter
the “Minister”) that it is “an exchange of data in police matters with a view to a decision
administrative”, therefore, the GDPR would be intended to apply to the Minister for the processing
carried out in this context.
 

                                                           
7 See in this sense M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, n°619.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

4/28

 
 
 
 

14. Furthermore, with regard to the commission set up by article 1 of the bill,
this one is brought to be seized by the minister so that it issues a "reasoned opinion for the
of the Minister" and the latter could "take into consideration any information communicated to the
Minister having the Police in his attributions”. Thus, the processing carried out in this context
would fall within the scope of the GDPR while the conditions referred to
in article 1 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of
national security do not seem to find application.
 

15. Thus, it should be noted that data initially collected for the purposes of
prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, or
enforcement of criminal sanctions would subsequently be subject to the GDPR as part of the
processing carried out by the Minister and the aforementioned commission.
 

16. Consequently, in such a context, there is reason to question the articulation of the
provisions of the GDPR with those of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as
than in terms of national security.

 

3. On the principle of the lawfulness of the processing of personal data

 

has. On the data processing carried out by the Grand Ducal Police

 

17. As noted by the CNPD in its aforementioned opinion, it should be noted that "the Directive
2016/680 provides that to be lawful, the processing must be necessary for the execution of a
mission of the competent authority, correspond to the purposes for which it was set up,
but also and above all, it must be provided for either by Union law or by the law of a State
member8. In addition, Directive 2016/680 specifies that the national provision regulating said
processing must at least specify: the purposes of the processing, the personal data
to be processed and the purposes of the processing 9. It follows from this provision that
these three elements constitute the minimum threshold that a national provision regulating a
processing falling within the scope of Directive 2016/680 must comply. The CNPD
would like to refer to its observations made in this regard in its opinion on the central file
of the Grand Ducal Police with regard to data protection legislation issued on 13
September 201910 »11.

                                                           
8 Article 8, paragraph 1, of Directive 2016/680.
9 Article 8(2) of Directive 2016/680.
10 Deliberation n°45/2019 of September 13, 2019 of the National Commission for Data Protection, doc. speak.
No. 7741/04.
11 Deliberation n°59/2019 of December 17, 2019 of the National Commission for Data Protection, doc. speak.
No. 7475/01.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

5/28

 
 
 
 

18. Furthermore, it should also be noted that the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article
3 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the
processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in security matters
national law, provides that “[t]he processing carried out by the same or by another data controller
processing, for one of the purposes set out in Article 1 other than those for the data
been collected, are authorized if they are necessary and proportionate to this purpose, subject to
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and of Chapters IV and V”.

 
19. It also follows from the commentary on the articles of bill No. 7168, which became the law of 1
August 2018 cited above, as to the provisions that led to the aforementioned provisions, that the
paragraph 2 of the aforementioned article 3 “provides for the conditions to be met so that a person in charge of the
processing may use personal data for a purpose of Article 1 which
is not the purpose of Article 1 for which this data was collected, namely that (a)
this processing of personal data is provided for by a national legal provision
or European, and (b) such other processing of personal data is necessary
and proportionate to that purpose”.
 

20. Thus, it follows from the foregoing that the provisions under notice should specify the
terms of the processing of personal data that would be implemented in the context of
requests for background checks by the Grand Ducal Police.

 
21. However, certain clarifications should be made, particularly with regard to the
categories of personal data that would be collected as well as details
as to the origin of such data. Therefore, it is essential that legal provisions
expressly provide for such details. The CNPD will come back to this below in its opinion.
 

b. On the data processing carried out by the Minister and the Commission

 

22. Article 6 of the GDPR defines the different conditions of lawfulness for which a
treatment is possible. In other words, the controller must first and
for each processing of personal data, determine the lawfulness condition applicable thereto.

  

On this point, the CNPD takes the liberty of reiterating its observations made in point 1 of its opinion
of December 17, 2019 relating to bill n°7475 12.

 

 

                                                           
12 Deliberation n°59/2019 of December 17, 2019 of the National Commission for Data Protection, doc. speak.
No. 7475/01.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

6/28

 
 
 
 

vs. On article 8 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of persons
physical with regard to the processing of personal data in
criminal and national security matters

 

23. Article 8, paragraph 1, of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as
in terms of national security, provides that “[p]ersonal data collected
by the competent authorities for the purposes set out in Article 1 may only be processed
purposes other than those set out therein, unless such processing is permitted by the law of
European Union or by a provision of Luxembourg law. ".
 

24. The National Commission understands that both the minister and the commission could
have access "to all the information accessible to the Police as part of the verification
antecedents”13 for the Minister and “any information communicated to the Minister”14 for
the Commission.
 
Thus, the minister and the commission could in particular be called upon to process data which
come from the State Intelligence Service (hereinafter the “SRE”) and the Cellule de
financial information (hereinafter the "FIU") as well as data from files
detained by the Grand Ducal Police.
 

25. In accordance with the aforementioned legal provisions, if the authors of the bill
consider that the data processed by the minister and the commission would be subject to
processed for different further purposes then this should be reflected more clearly in
the text under notice. Indeed, such data would then initially be collected by the
aforementioned authorities for the purposes of prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigations
and prosecution in this area or the execution of criminal penalties, then would be within the framework
texts under opinion processed, if necessary, for different subsequent purposes.
 

d. On the provisions of Chapter 2, section 2, of the law of February 22, 2018
on the exchange of personal data and information in
detective material

 

26. It is appropriate to draw the attention of the authors of the bill and of the draft regulation
ducal on article 8, paragraph 3, of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as
only in terms of national security which provides that “[w]here the law of the European Union or
a provision of Luxembourg law applicable to the competent authority transmitting the

                                                           
13 Commentary on the government amendment to the bill.
14 Article 1, paragraph 3, subparagraph 5, of the bill.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

7/28

 
 
 
 

data subjects their processing to specific conditions, the competent authority which transmits
the data informs the recipient of this personal data of these conditions and
of the obligation to respect them”.

 
27. Thus, it should be noted that the transmission of information directly available
or directly accessible by the Grand-Ducal Police to the Minister or the commission referred to in
paragraph 3, article 1 of the bill, is subject to the conditions set out in Chapter 2,
section 2, of the law of 22 February 2018 on the exchange of personal data and
police information.
 
Article 24 of the said law provides in particular that such transmission is subject to the conditions
following accumulations:
“1) it must be necessary for the performance of a public service mission whose administration
recipient of the transmission is charged under the law;
2) the reasons why the transmitted data and information are considered as
being necessary for the execution of the mission of the recipient administration must be part of
the documentation referred to in Article 25, paragraph 2;
3) it may only include data and information that is necessary, relevant and
proportionate with regard to the relevant mission of the recipient administration;
4) when it comes to data and information that comes from an investigation or an instruction
preparatory in progress, the written authorization referred to in Article 20, paragraph 2, is required
prior to transmission;
5) when it comes to data and information that have been communicated to the persons concerned
in Article 18, paragraph 1, beforehand by an entity referred to in Article 1, the written agreement of
this entity is required prior to transmission;
6) none of the reasons referred to in Article 7, paragraph 1, oppose it”.
 

28. The authors of the bill and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation must therefore ensure that
the proper articulation between the provisions under notice and those covered by the law of February 22, 2018
mentioned above, but which predates the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as
than in terms of national security.

 

II. Ad government amendment relating to the bill

 

29. The purpose of this government amendment is to amend the sole article of the bill.
The authors of the bill specify in the commentary to the amendment that these new
provisions are intended in particular to provide clarifications with regard to the verification of
background and "particularly with regard to the respective roles of the Minister having the Police
in its attributions and of the latter in this context".
 
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

8/28

 
 
 
 

30. Thus, a new paragraph 3 is introduced in article 1 of the bill. This one treats

"exclusively [of] background checks".

 

The authors of the bill specify that in this new paragraph 3, "it is proposed
to insert a first paragraph which specifies that the background check is carried out in view of the
European regulatory basis as a preventive measure against threats to the
public security. The government proposes this amendment in view of the opinion of December 17
2019 of the National Commission for Data Protection (CNPD), which raised the issue
of the data protection regime. This clarifies in particular the purpose of the processing and that the
data processed fall under the scope of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security”.
 
The authors of the bill are to be commended for providing such clarification.

 

1. On the personal data processors

 

31. As raised in its aforementioned opinion of December 17, 2019, the CNPD considered that
clarifications had to be made as to the determination of the controller and
of the possible subcontractor, or even of joint responsibility in the context of the processing
background check requests.
 
The authors of the bill specify on this subject, in the commentary to the amendments, that
“As regards the questioning of the CNPD on the data controller, it should be noted that
the Minister having the Police in his attributions takes the final decision without having access to the
all of the information accessible to the Police as part of the background check.
Therefore, it becomes clear that there is a separation of responsibility for processing for
respective treatments.
 
They further specify that paragraph 2 of paragraph 3 of article 1 of the bill “attributes the
decision-making power for background checks to the Minister having the Police in his
attributions. This decision is based on the opinion of the Police, which may be supplemented by the opinion of
the Commission ".
 

32. It follows from the foregoing that the Minister would therefore be considered as
responsible for the processing of data processing carried out within the framework of the decision
final, while the Grand-Ducal Police would be qualified as responsible for the processing of
data processing carried out within the framework of the background check itself.
 

33. However, although the authors of the bill respond in the commentary to
the amendment to the questions raised by the CNPD, this is however not reflected
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

9/28

 
 
 
 

expressly in the text under notice. Indeed, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, of Article 1 provides
that “[t]he Minister having the Police in his attributions takes the decisions relating to the
background check on the advice of the Police and on the advice of the commission set up in paragraph
4 in the event of referral”.
 
Paragraph 3 of the said paragraph provides that “[t]he Police are responsible for the
background check. To this end, it issues a reasoned opinion based on an assessment of the
reliability of the applicant, which it transmits to the Minister having the Police in his attributions”.
 

34. The CNPD therefore reiterates its observations made in its opinion of 17 December
2019 cited above, in that it had recommended that the authors of the bill “specify in the
body of the text of the bill who has the quality of data controller and, where applicable, of
contractor, with respect to background checks".
 

35. Furthermore, it should be recalled in this regard that Article 2, paragraph 1, point 8°) of the
Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security,
provides that "when the purposes and means of this processing are determined by the law of
European Union or Luxembourg law, the controller or the criteria
applicable to its designation may be provided for by European Union law
or Luxembourg law”.

 

2. Consultation of the special register

 

36. Paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of Article 1 of the draft law provides that “[w]here the
applicant is under the age of twenty-three at the time the application is submitted, the
Police are authorized to consult the special register provided for in article 15 of the amended law of 10
August 1992 relating to the protection of young people”. Access to the special register would be justified, according to
the authors of the bill, in order "to best guarantee airport security".
 

37. Article 15 of the amended law of 10 August 1992 on the protection of young people
provides that the decisions and convictions appearing in the special register "may also
be brought to the attention of the administrative authorities in cases where this information
are essential for the application of a legal or regulatory provision, as well as
injured third parties, if they so request".
 

38. Without prejudging the assessment in concreto that would be made by the Grand-Ducal Police in
As part of a background check, it should be remembered that according to the principle of
minimization of data, only the personal data necessary for the realization
purposes must be processed, taking into account the risk that the processing poses to life
privacy of the persons concerned.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

10/28

 
 
 
 



39. Furthermore, it should be noted that recital 50 of Directive 2016/680 sets out
that “[i]t is particularly important that the controller be required to implement
appropriate and effective measures and is able to demonstrate that the processing activities
comply with this directive. These measures should take into account the nature, scope,
the context and purposes of the processing as well as the risk that these present for the
rights and freedoms of natural persons. The measures taken by the controller
should include the establishment and implementation of specific safeguards for the
processing of personal data relating to vulnerable natural persons
such as children. Therefore, such safeguards should be implemented when
processing of such data by the Grand Ducal Police.
 

40. Furthermore, the attention of the authors of the draft law should be drawn to the draft law
No. 7991 introducing criminal law for minors and amending other laws, which
provides in particular for the repeal of the amended law of 10 August 1992 relating to the protection of
youth.

 

Article 60 of the aforementioned bill provides for new provisions regarding the special register. the
paragraph 4 of the said article lists the authorities, with the authorization of the State Attorney General, who
could take cognizance of the information contained in the special register. But there is
It should be noted that these new provisions do not provide that the Grand Ducal Police can
read the information in the special register.
 

41. Thus, in order to ensure better consistency between the two texts, it would not be necessary
expressly provide for consultation by the Grand-Ducal Police of the special register referred to in Article
60 of Bill N°7991?
  

3. On the opinion issued by the Grand Ducal Police as part of the verification of

background

 

42. Paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of Article 1 of the bill provides that within the framework of the
background check, the Grand-Ducal Police “issues a reasoned opinion based on a
assessment of the applicant's reliability, which it transmits to the Minister having the Police in his
attributions”.

 
43. It emerges from the new article 15 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation that “the minister having
the Grand-Ducal Police in its attributions will have access to [a centralized computer system
for the management of requests for background checks] to consult the opinion of the Police
Grand Ducal State and on request, to consult the entirety of a file concerned”.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

11/28

 

 
 
 
 

the authors of the project

law, in the commentary of

Thus, there is reason to wonder about the articulation of the aforementioned provisions with the details
provided by
the amendment
governmental, insofar as the latter specify that "the Minister having the Police in
its attributions takes the final decision without having access to all the accessible information
to the police as part of the background check.
 
Therefore, in the absence of details, what would be the elements that would justify the Minister
can have access to all the information accessible to the Grand Ducal Police in the
background check?
 

44. In order to comply with the principle of foreseeability and precision to which any text
legal or regulatory15, the criteria specifying under what conditions the Minister would have, if
where appropriate, access to information accessible by the Grand Ducal Police should be reflected
clearly in the provisions of the bill and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. Likewise,
shouldn't it be specified what would be the content of the "reasoned opinion" issued by the Grand-Police?
ducale and forwarded to the Minister as part of the background check?
 

45. In any event, would it not be preferable to provide that the Grand-Ducal Police
communicates to the Minister a detailed opinion referring only to the relevant elements to which
the Grand-Ducal Police would have access? Such a system would make it possible to avoid duplication
data concerning the criminal record of the data subject, in the hands of
of the Minister, while allowing the Minister to obtain the necessary and relevant information,
to allow him to make a decision.
 

4. On the creation of a commission set up by article 1 of the bill

 

46. It emerges from the draft law that in the event of a negative opinion from the Grand-Ducal Police within the framework
of the enhanced background check, the Minister will be provided with notice by the
commission referred to in paragraph 4 of paragraph 3 of article 1 of the bill.
 
Paragraph 4 of paragraph 3 of article 1 of the bill provides for the creation of a commission which
would be responsible for “issuing an opinion for the Minister having the Police in his attributions
in case of referral by the latter. This commission is based on the model of the commission provided
in bill n°6961”.
 
Paragraph 5 of paragraph 3 of article 1 of the bill provides that when it is seized by the
Minister, the commission could “take into consideration any information communicated to the
Minister having the Police in his attributions”.

                                                           
15 In this sense, V. M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, n°619;
V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229, 4 December 2015
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

12/28

 
 
 
 


It is specified in the commentary to the amendment that “in view of the sensitive nature of the
information discussed, it is proposed that every member of the committee be in possession
a security clearance corresponding to at least the level “secret”” and that “[a]s the example
of the aforementioned bill no. 6961, paragraph 6 provides for the procedures for accessing the file in the event of a
negative decision, in order to allow the applicant to follow the elements that led to the
refusal”.
 

47. The authors of the bill are to be commended for providing that members of this
committee are in possession of a security clearance corresponding to at least the
secret level. Nevertheless, it is regrettable that the content of the opinion issued by this
commission is not detailed in the bill. As indicated above, it is preferable
that a detailed opinion be communicated to the Minister.
 

48. Moreover, in order to comply with the principle of foreseeability and precision to which
respond to any legal or regulatory text16, the content of such notice should be clearly reflected
in the provisions of the bill.
 

49. Finally, it appears from the commentary to the government amendment that “[t]he paragraph 5
assigns the necessary access rights to the committee, which notably has access to all
information communicated to the Minister having the Police in his attributions within the framework of the
request. Consequently, any request for authorization addressed to the State Prosecutor in this
context includes the indication that said commission is also the recipient of the information
concerned”. There is reason to wonder about the authorization of the State Prosecutor referred to in the
commentary to the government amendment, is this the one referred to in article 24
of the law of 22 February 2018 relating to the exchange of personal data and
police information?17

                                                           
16 In this sense, V. M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, n°619;
V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229, 4 December 2015
17 Article 24 of the law of 22 February 2018 on the exchange of personal data and information in
police matters provides that “[t]he transmission referred to in Article 23, which may take place on request or in a
spontaneous, is subject to the following cumulative conditions:

1)

2)

3)

4)

it must be necessary for the performance of a public service mission for which the administration to which the request is addressed
transmission is charged under the law;
the reasons why the data and information transmitted are considered necessary for
the execution of the mission of the recipient administration must be part of the documentation referred to in Article 25,
paragraph 2;
it may only include data and information that is necessary, relevant and proportional to
with regard to the relevant mission of the recipient administration;
when it comes to data and information that comes from an investigation or a preparatory investigation in
courses, the written authorization referred to in Article 20, paragraph 2, is required prior to transmission;

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

13/28

 

 
 
 
 

5. Final remarks

 

50. It should be noted that subparagraph 3 of paragraph 3 of Article 1 of the draft law provides
that “[t]he Police are responsible for background checks. To this end, it issues a
reasoned opinion based on an assessment of the applicant's reliability, which it forwards to the minister
the Police within its powers. The analysis of the applicant's reliability consists of an assessment
overall individual situation.
 
However, the use of the terms “reliability of the applicant” or “overall assessment of the situation
individual” are general and imprecise and could be likely to increase the risk of
confusion in the mind of the reader about what verification of
antecedents. This is all the more so since the articles of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation are intended to
purpose of detailing such checks and do not use similar terminologies.
 
Thus, there is reason to question the consistency and articulation of such provisions with those
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
 

51. Furthermore, the National Commission refers to its considerations developed in
paragraphs 17 to 21 of this opinion with regard to the elements that should be included in
the bill and in the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
 

III. Government amendments relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation

 

1. On the "Day pass"

 

52. The purpose of amendment 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation is to modify article 6 of the
draft Grand-Ducal regulation entitled "The Daily Pass". It is necessary to notice
that the provisions relating to the delivery of an identity document remain unchanged 18.
 

53. Consequently, the CNPD takes the liberty of reiterating its observations made in its opinion of 17
December 2019 mentioned above, in which it had estimated that “in view of the principle of minimization
of the data, it seems excessive to keep the document during the time of the presence of the
person involved in the airport area, while lux-Airport is unable to
check whether the identity document is, if necessary, falsified, and that it would be sufficient, after
verification of the identity of the person using the identity document, to add the number of the
                                                           

5)

in the case of data and information which have been communicated to the persons referred to in Article 18,
paragraph 1, beforehand by an entity referred to in Article 1, the written agreement of this entity is required beforehand
to transmission;

6) none of the reasons referred to in Article 7, paragraph 1, oppose it”.
 
18 Article 6, paragraph (3) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, as amended.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

14/28

 
 
 
 

identity document in the aforementioned directory next to the registration of the permit holder
pass”19.

 

2. On the provisions of Article 7 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation

 

54. The purpose of amendment 2 is to modify article 7 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
entitled “Visitors and the press”. The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specify
in the comment to the amendment that “[has] seen the comment of the National Commission
for data protection concerning the decision-making criteria of the Grand Ducal Police for
visits and the press referred to in Article 7, the Government proposes to amend Article 7 in order to
clarify the assessment of this decision by the Grand Ducal Police”.
 
Thus, at the end of the paragraph of the aforementioned article, the following terms were added “on the basis of a
assessment of security conditions”.
 
The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation further specify on this subject that "[t]his
prior specific authorization from the Grand Ducal Police can only be
granted if it does not interfere with airport security. This implies in particular respect for
support conditions and consideration of any other security constraints
airport”.
 

55. While the clarification efforts of the authors of the draft Grand-
ducal, such clarifications do not, however, allow the CNPD's questions to be answered.
formulated in its opinion of 17 December 2019.
 

56. Thus, the National Commission takes the liberty of reiterating its questions that
she wondered about the criteria on which the issuance, or not, by the Police would be based
Grand Duchy of an authorization and, if applicable, which national files or systems
information from the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation
(Europol) or the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) would be
consulted20.

 

3. About the background check request

 

57. The purpose of amendment 3 is to modify article 13 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
titled “Request for background check”. It should be noted that following the

                                                           
19 See comments made under the point “Ad art. 6. The pass”, from deliberation n°59/2019 of 17
December 2019 from the National Commission for Data Protection, parliamentary document 7475/01.
20 See the comments made under the point “Ad art. 7. Visitors and the press”, from deliberation n°59/2019
of 17 December 2019 of the National Commission for Data Protection, parliamentary document 7475/01.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

15/28

 
 
 
 

amendments some of the provisions of article 13 have been deleted and have been introduced
in a new article 14 entitled “Information considered and decision criteria”.
 

58. Paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation lists in
twelve points what elements a background check application must contain as well as
the documents to be sent to the Grand Ducal Police in support of this request.
 
The amendments bring certain precisions with regard to the documents
listed in paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of Article 13 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, which must
be forwarded to the Grand Ducal Police upon such a request.
 

a) On Article 13, paragraph 1, point 3°

 

59. Article 13, paragraph 1, point 3, of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides that “the
written declaration of the applicant containing the authorization to carry out a verification of the
background and to request any information relating to the request available and directly
accessible to the competent national authorities, or any equivalent document from the
authorities of the countries of residence for the last five years or of which he is a national"
(new provisions underlined).
 
In the present case, there is reason to wonder about the relevance of conditioning such processing of
personal data to “authorization to carry out a background check”
of the applicant whereas according to article 7, paragraph 1, of the law of 1 August 2018 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, provides that “[t]he processing is not
lawful only if and insofar as it is necessary for the performance of the authority's tasks
competent authority defined in Article 2, paragraph 1, point 7°, for one of the purposes set out in
Article 1 and when this mission is carried out pursuant to legislative provisions
governing the relevant competent authority”.
 
Thus, the background check should not be based on the prior agreement of the applicant
as appears to be provided for by the aforementioned provisions of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
 

60. In any event, such provisions are formulated too vaguely so as to
that they are not likely to comply with the principle of predictability and precision to which
must comply with any legal or regulatory text 21. In order to avoid any risk of confusion in the spirit
of the reader, it is recommended that the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation omit the
aforementioned provisions.

                                                           
21 In this sense, V. M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, n°619;
V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229, 4 December 2015.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

16/28

 
 
 
 

b) On Article 13, paragraph 1, point 5°

 

61. Article 13, paragraph 1, point 5°, of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides that the
request for verification must contain "an extract from the criminal record of the countries listed in point
3, with the exception of Luxembourg, less than three months old”.
It emerges from the commentary to the articles that "[t]he point 5 is adapted according to the modification
of point 3. In order to simplify the administrative procedures, it is expected that a criminal record
Luxembourgish is not required”.
 

62. Point 6° of the said article specifies that the request for verification must contain “the agreement of the
requesting that bulletin no. 2 of the criminal record be issued directly to the Grand-Police
ducal”.

 

The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, in order to simplify the administrative procedures,
therefore intend to provide for the possibility for the Grand Ducal Police to be issued directly
a bulletin N°2 when the applicant (Luxembourg resident) has given his agreement.
 

63. The introduction of such provisions is to be welcomed when such a possibility does not
currently does not appear to be provided for by article 8, paragraph 1, of the amended law of 29 March 2013
relating to the organization of the criminal record which specifies that the bulletin N ° 2 of a person
physical is issued on request “to state administrations, municipal administrations and
legal persons under public law seized, within the framework of their legal missions, of a
request presented by the natural or legal person concerned, who has given his consent
in writing or electronically so that bulletin No. 2 is delivered directly to
the administration or the legal person under public law. The list of administrations and persons
morals of public law and the grounds for an application for issuance are set by general regulation.
ducal”. That regulation does not cover such a case.

 

c) On Article 13, paragraph 1, point 12°

 

64. It should be noted that the provisions of Article 13, paragraph 1, point 12°, of the draft

of Grand-Ducal regulations remain unchanged by the amendments.
 
It emerges from the commentary to the articles that the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
specify in amendment 3 on this subject that “[h]aving seen the Commission’s comment
national authority for data protection concerning the content of the biographical questionnaire,
it should be specified that the said questionnaire lists the elements referred to in Articles 13
paragraph 1 and 14 paragraph 3 in relation to the applicant”.
 
The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation should be commended for having provided such
details.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

17/28

 
 
 
 

65. Moreover, it is appropriate to question the relevance of the reference to the elements which
would be referred to in paragraph 3 of the new article 14 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation then
that the CNPD understands that such data would be obtained indirectly by the
Grand-ducal police and not collected directly from the applicant.

 
 
4. On the information considered and the decision criteria within the framework of a

background check

 

66. It appears from the commentary to amendment 4 that “the Government proposes to insert
a new article 14 to respond to the request of the National Commission for the Protection
data to clarify the decision criteria, the information considered and the authorities
competent”. While the Government's efforts in this regard are to be welcomed, it is appropriate
however, to regret that some of the considerations expressed by the CNPD in its opinion
above have not been taken into account.

 

a) On paragraph 1 of the new article 14

 

67. Article 14, paragraph 1, of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides that “the Police
Grand Ducal consults the foreign police and national judicial authorities. The police
Grand Duchy may also consult any employer or any educational institution
previous or current in order to verify the authenticity of the information provided. As part of the
enhanced background checks, the Grand-Ducal Police also consults the
State Intelligence and the Financial Intelligence Unit. ".
 

68. While the authors of the bill are to be commended for specifying that the ERS as well as
the FIU would be consulted as part of the enhanced background check, it should be
to regret that the text under opinion does not specify which judicial authorities
foreign and national which would be consulted. Indeed, are they the judicial authorities
criminal and/or civil?
 

69. On this point, the National Commission takes the liberty of reiterating its observations made
in its aforementioned opinion in that it had noted that “[i]t seems essential for the CNPD that the
text specifies which entities are referred to by the above-mentioned terms "the authorities
competent national authorities”. In fact, there should be no difficulty in identifying the
competent authorities in this context. By way of comparison, the German law concerning the
air safety ("Luftsicherheitsgesetz") lists in its section 7 paragraph (3) what
national authorities the air transport security administration (“Luftsicherheitsbehörde”)

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

18/28

 

 
 
 
 

may contact as part of a background check and insofar as this is
necessary for the assessment of the reliability of the person in question 22.
 
Based on section 2 of the amended law of 22 February 2018 relating to the exchange of data to
personal character and information in police matters, the transmission of data to
personal nature and information of the Grand Ducal Police to the other administrations of
the State is possible, if a law authorizes this transfer and if the other conditions cumulatively
provided for in article 24 of the said law are complied with. However, it is not clear from Article 13
paragraph (4) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation if it effectively targets the transmission of
data from the Grand Ducal Police to these competent national authorities, or rather the reverse,
i.e. the transfer of data from the said authorities to the Grand Ducal Police. In the
government amendments of August 1, 2017, the authors of bill no. 6976, which became the
law of February 22, 2018 mentioned above specified that section 2 only covers “transmissions
“one-way”, that is to say from the Grand-Ducal Police to the administrations of
the State – the transmission of data and information in the other direction is already planned
by article 23, paragraph 2, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. ". However, as the authorities
competent authorities will not be aware if a specific person has submitted a request for
background check with the Grand Ducal Police, the latter must contact them
on its own initiative. Thus, it appears necessary to include in the draft regulation grand-
Ducal a list which determines the authorities that the Grand Ducal Police will have to contact
systematically when a request for a background check is received”23.
 

70. Furthermore, it is still to be regretted that those provisions do not specify:
- what information would be communicated by the "police authorities"
foreign and national judicial authorities” nor by the SRE or the FIU, is this information
listed in paragraph 3 of new article 14 of the Grand-Ducal regulation? ;

- or in what form said information would be communicated to the Police
ducal? Will the information be transmitted in its entirety, in the form
extract or notice sent to the Grand Ducal Police by the said authorities?

 

71. For better readability and understanding of the text, it would be preferable to indicate
what information would be communicated by which authority and in what form
would be communicated to the Grand Ducal Police.
 

                                                           
22 These are the following authorities: “Polizeivollzugs- und den Verfassungsschutzbehörden der Länder sowie, soweit
im Einzelfall erforderlich, dem Bundeskriminalamt, dem Zollkriminalamt, dem Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz, dem
Bundesnachrichtendienst, dem Militärischen Abschirmdienst und der Bundesbeauftragten für die Unterlagen des
Staatssicherheitsdienstes der ehemaligen Deutschen Demokratischen Republik”.

23 See comments made under the point “Ad. Art. 13 Application for background check”, deliberation
n°59/2019 of December 17, 2019 of the National Commission for Data Protection, doc. speak. No. 7475/01.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

19/28

 
 
 
 

72. Furthermore, it is also regrettable that the text does not specify which files

nationals would be accessible by the Grand Ducal Police, if necessary.
 
On this point, it is appropriate to reiterate the observations made by the National Commission in
its aforementioned opinion in that it had noted that “[i]t is not clear from the draft text
regulatory under notice if the Grand Ducal Police hears in the context of a request for
enhanced background checks access the personal data contained
in its own files or national data processing (numbering 62 24), such as by
example the so-called “central” file,25 the “narcotics file”26 the “warnings file”
taxed”27, etc., as well as data from European information systems and
international such as the aforementioned Schengen, Europol or INTERPOL information systems. At
given the recent concerns of citizens regarding respect for civil liberties and the protection
of their personal data in the police and judicial field, it is all the more important
that clarifications on access to the aforementioned files and systems can be found at
level of the law in the formal sense, therefore in draft law no. 7475 also under opinion, especially
if we consider the press release of July 22, 2019 from the ministry having the Grand-Ducal Police in
its attributions on the complete overhaul of the national legislation relating to the verification of
history at Luxembourg airport which states the following: "Given the complexity of the file,
many questions arise and must be resolved, particularly in the context of
access to the central file of the Police and the retention of data. »28.
 
In France, articles L. 6342-2 and L. 6342-3 of the Transport Code specify that access
security areas with restricted access to an aerodrome are subject to an authorization which is

the

of the

deputies

Bedroom

                                                           
24 As revealed in a news article entitled “62 TYPES OF FILE” published on November 7, 2019 on the site
of
:
https://www.chd.lu/wps/portal/public/Accueil/Actualite/ALaUne/?current=true&urile=wcm%3Apath%3Aactualite.public.
chd.lu/ST-www.chd.lu/sa-actualites/3532ef0a-6f63-45c6-9894-186e876dd120 (last consulted on 5 December
2019).
25 According to the joint response of the Minister having the Grand Ducal Police in his attributions François
BAUSCH and the Minister of Justice Félix BRAZ to parliamentary question no. 752 of June 4, 2019 on
"Central" file contains all the minutes and reports written by the officers and police agents
Judicial within the framework of their judicial police mission”.
26 Who, according to the answer of the Minister having the Grand-Ducal Police in his attributions to question N°1190 of 10
September 2019 concerning the narcotics file with the Grand Ducal Police contains "
information relevant to the fight against illicit drug trafficking which may or may not be data
personal”.
27 According to the response of the Minister having the Grand Ducal Police in his attributions François BAUSCH to
parliamentary question no. 1068 of August 16, 2019, the “file of taxed warnings (AT) was created as part of
of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 21 December 2004 authorizing the creation of a file of persons with
suffered a tax warning in terms of road traffic and modification of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 7 June 1979
determining the acts, documents and files authorized to use the identity number of natural persons and
morals”.
28 Press release by the Ministry having the Grand-Ducal Police in its attributions of 22 July 2019 available on the
site
government website: https://gouvernement.lu/fr/actualites/toutes_actualites/articles/2019/07-juillet/22-
bausch-legislation-aeroport.html (last accessed October 17, 2019).
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

20/28

 
 
 
 

preceded by an administrative inquiry giving rise, where appropriate, to consultation of bulletin no.
2 of the criminal record and automated processing of personal data managed by
the national police and gendarmerie services falling under the provisions of article 31 of the
Law No. 78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and freedoms, with the exception
identification files. According to said article, the processing of personal data
implemented on behalf of the State and which is of interest to State security, defense or
public security, or have as their object the prevention, research, observation or prosecution
criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sentences or security measures,
thus including the processing carried out by the national police and gendarmerie services,
must be authorized by order of the competent minister(s), taken after publication of a notice
motivated by the National Commission for Computing and Liberties (the French counterpart of the
CNPD). Said processing is thus all legally framed, such as the file
criminal history 29, the serial analysis file30 or the file of persons
wanted31 »32.
 
In addition, as regards the files kept by the Grand Ducal Police, the attention of the authorities should be drawn.
authors of the draft law on draft law n°7741 modifying 1° the amended law of 18
July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, 2° of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on the reorganization
of the SRE and 3° of the Penal Code, was tabled on December 30, 2020. The said bill notably
for the purpose of supervising the processing of personal data carried out in the
files of the Grand Ducal Police, and more precisely in the central file. Therefore, the authors
of the bill should ensure good consistency and coordination between the two texts.
 

73. In any event, the current wording of Article 14, paragraph 1, of the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation is too vague so that the principle of predictability and precision
to which any legal or regulatory text 33 must respond would not be likely to be complied with.
 

b) On the new Article 14, paragraph 2

 

74. This article provides that “[a]ll information provided in connection with the application
a background check, as well as all information received from the authorities and
actors provided for in paragraph one or collected during background checks
are taken into account for the final decision on the verification of the
antecedents”.

                                                           
29 Provided for by articles 230-6 to 11 of the French Code of Criminal Procedure.
30 Provided for by articles 230-12 to 18 of the French Code of Criminal Procedure.
31 Provided for by article 230-19 of the French Code of Criminal Procedure.
32 See comments made under the point “Ad. Art. 13 Application for background check”, deliberation
n°59/2019 of December 17, 2019 of the National Commission for Data Protection, doc. speak. No. 7475/01.
33 In this sense, V. M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, n°619;
V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229, 4 December 2015
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

21/28

 
 
 
 

Clarification as to what the notion of "background checks" would cover
prior” should be provided by the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, then
that it is not clear from reading the said provisions what the authors intend to aim for
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation by this concept.
 

c) On the new Article 14, paragraph 3

 

75. It should be noted that paragraph 3 of the new Article 14 lists the criteria on
on which the Grand-Ducal Police bases itself in order to assess requests for verification of
antecedents.
 

76. It emerges from the commentary to the government amendments that paragraph 1 of
paragraph 3 of the aforementioned new article 14 that it “sets out several exclusion criteria
binding. Thus, an applicant fails the background check if he has committed, attempted
to commit or if there are real and corroborating indications to believe that he committed or attempted to
commit the offenses referred to in Directive (EU) 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 15 March 2017 on the fight against terrorism and replacing the framework decision
2002/475/JHA and amending Council Decision 2005/671/JHA, as well as whether it makes any
false declarations in his application”, while paragraph 3 “adds a list not
comprehensive list of non-binding evaluation criteria. For the final decision all the elements
of the file are taken into consideration, each file is assessed individually, such as
stipulated in the aforementioned bill n°7475. In particular, it is taken into account whether the applicant has committed,
attempted to commit or if there are real and corroborating indications to believe that he committed or attempted
to commit the offenses referred to in Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data for
the prevention and detection of terrorist offenses and serious forms of crime, as well as
as for the investigation and prosecution of the matter".
 
If such details are to be welcomed, it is regrettable that certain details have not been
brought.
 

77. Indeed, the following questions remain:

- how will the Grand Ducal Police obtain the information listed in
paragraph 3 of the new article 14 via access to its own files, via the SRE, the CRF
or other national or foreign authorities?

- what information would be obtained? Are these final court decisions?

and/or not final? Reports or police records?

- what about the information that would be obtained in the context of an investigation and
what measures, if any, would be taken to respect the secrecy of
instruction?

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

22/28

 

 
 
 
 

-

how will the Grand Ducal Police verify the authenticity of the
information provided by the applicant and listed in Article 13 of the draft Grand-
ducal?

 

78. Furthermore, with regard to obtaining clues “relating to alcoholism, drug addiction,
dependence on medication or the regular abuse of these substances", it is necessary to draw
the attention of the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation to the provisions of Article 9 of the
Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, which
would apply in this case. Indeed, such indices relate to a state of health in
insofar as they provide information on a possible addiction of the person subject to
background check. The indices collected are therefore likely to constitute
special categories of data within the meaning of the aforementioned article 9.

 

79. Furthermore, it is also worth recalling Article 6, paragraph 1, of the law of 1 August
2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security which provides that
“[f]act-based personal data shall, as far as possible, be
distinguished from those based on personal assessments”. The Grand Ducal Police
should therefore ensure compliance with those provisions.
 

80. In any event, the National Commission considers that the draft regulation
ducal should specify the origin of the data, which categories of data would be collected
and by what means these would be obtained.

 
5. On the new article 15 of the draft entitled “Processing and retention period of

personal data”

 

81. This new article introduced by amendment 4 aims to define “the framework for the
processing of personal data and the retention period of the data for the
background check”.
 

a) On the establishment of a centralized IT system

 

82. It follows from paragraph 1 of the new article 15 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
that “[t]he Grand-Ducal Police is setting up a centralized computer system for the management
background check requests. With a view to making the decision, the minister having
the Grand-Ducal Police in its attributions will have access to this system to consult the opinion of the
Grand-ducal police and on request, to consult the entire file concerned”.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

23/28

 

 
 
 
 

The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specify on this subject that “[in] order to clarify the
interactions between the Grand-Ducal Police and its Minister, in paragraph 1 the Grand-Ducal Police
Ducale sets up a computer system to which the Minister has access. However, the rights
access of the Minister having the Police in his attributions are restricted and a request is required
for access to the entire file.
 

83. It is not clear from the said provisions whether a file, within the framework of the
background check, would be held by the Police or if it would be a computer tool
facilitating the administrative management of background check requests. If a file
was to be held by the Grand Ducal Police so this should be expressly reflected in the
law Project.
 

84. Furthermore, as previously indicated, what would be the criteria that would justify the
if necessary, access to the entire file by the Minister? It is to be regretted that the text under
Opinion remains silent on such details.
 

b) On the retention period of the data collected by the Grand Ducal Police

as part of the background check
 

85. In accordance with the principle of retention limitation, personal data
personal are kept "in a form allowing the identification of the persons
concerned for a period not exceeding that necessary with regard to the purposes for
which they are processed.
 

86. In addition, in accordance with Article 4 of Directive 2016/680 “personal data
personnel are accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all reasonable measures must
be taken so that personal data which is inaccurate, having regard to the purposes
for which they are processed, are erased or rectified without delay”.
 

87. It is also worth recalling the recommendation issued by the CNPD within the framework of
its opinion relating to the central file of the Grand-Ducal Police in which it considers that "the deadlines
storage or at least the applicable criteria for determining the storage period
as well as the procedures allowing the regular verification of the need for said deadlines
deserve to be clarified by the legislator in order to limit as much as possible the room for maneuver
of the controller and guarantee transparency, accessibility and proportionality
of the said deadlines”35.
 

                                                           
34 Article 3 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
35 Deliberation n°45/2019 of September 13, 2019, p. 30.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

24/28

 
 
 
 

88. Paragraph 2 of the said article intends to specify the retention period of the data
collected by the Grand Ducal Police as part of the background check and the
paragraph 3 specifies the period after which the data would be erased. There is a place to salute
the effort of the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation to have provided for durations of
conservation, as suggested by the CNPD in its aforementioned opinion 36.
 

89. Thus paragraph 2 of the new article 15 sets a duration of one year for the data
collected as part of the background check "in the event of a positive decision", it is
further specified that this duration is extended in the event of renewals.
 
In addition, the same duration of one year is set for applications “incomplete or withdrawn by
the applicant or the entity to which he belongs”. The Government specifies in the commentary of the
amendments that this duration was proposed "with the aim of simplifying the process
administrative procedure in the event of a subsequent resumption of the request concerned”.

 

Finally, a 30-day data retention period is set in the event of failure of the
request for background check.
 

90. Furthermore, paragraph 3 of Article 15 provides that the data would be erased
the end of each of the pre-mentioned deadlines but that a succinct sheet “will be kept
for a period of five years" and that it would contain the information listed in the said
paragraph.
 

91. There is further reason to draw the attention of the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation to
article 6, paragraph 2, of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in
national security which provides that “[t]he competent authorities shall take all necessary measures
reasonable to ensure that personal data which is inaccurate, incomplete
or are no longer up to date are not transmitted or made available”.
 

92. Finally, in the absence of precision on this subject in the texts under opinion, it is necessary to
wondering about the retention periods for opinions as well as information that would be
communicated to the minister and the commission. Such details should be provided.
 

6. Final remarks

 

93. In its initial opinion on the draft law and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, the
National Commission wondered how the Grand Ducal Police would proceed

                                                           
36 See the observations made under point 4 of deliberation no. 59/2019 of 17 December 2019 of the Commission
national for data protection, doc. speak. No. 7475/01.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

25/28

 
 
 
 

it has an “equivalent” background check for non-resident workers. She
had, in fact, noted that “[a] priori, as the Grand-Ducal Police does not have access to
corresponding files of foreign countries, this control may seem less effective and less
intrusive than that for resident workers”37.
 
It now seems that this situation is provided for in Article 14, paragraph 1, of the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation, while this expressly provides for the possibility for the Grand-Ducal Police
ducale to consult foreign police and judicial authorities.
 

IV.

On the rights of data subjects
 

1. On the processing of personal data carried out by the Grand-Police

ducal
 

avoid interfering with official or legal inquiries, research or proceedings;
avoid prejudicing the prevention or detection of criminal offences, the investigation or

94. It is appropriate to draw the attention of the authors of the draft law and the draft regulation
ducal on article 14 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons at
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in
national security which provides that “[t]he controller may limit, entirely
or partially, the data subject's right of access, as soon as and for as long as a
such partial or complete limitation constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a
democratic society, having regard to the purpose of the processing concerned, and taking due account
the fundamental rights and legitimate interests of the natural person concerned, for:
has)
b)
prosecution in the matter or the execution of penal sanctions;
vs)
d)
e)
 
If this should be the will of the authors of the texts under opinion then the legal provisions
should specify the limitation of the rights of data subjects in accordance with the
provisions of the aforementioned article 14.
 

protect public safety;
protect national security and national defence; Where
protect the rights and freedoms of others”.

95. Finally, it should also be specified that Article 17 of the aforementioned law is likely to
find application while the Grand-Ducal Police may be required to process data at
personal nature relating to facts which are the subject of a preliminary investigation or
preparatory instruction.

 

                                                           
37 See comments made under the point “Ad. Art. 13. Application for background check”, deliberation
n°59/2019 of December 17, 2019 of the National Commission for Data Protection, doc. speak. No. 7475/01.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

26/28

 
 
 
 

2. On the processing of personal data carried out by the Minister or

the Commission
 

96. As indicated in paragraphs 11 to 16 of this Opinion, the GDPR is likely to

apply to the processing carried out by the Minister or the commission.

 

97. According to Article 5 (1) (a) of the GDPR, personal data
must be processed in a lawful, fair and transparent manner with regard to the data subject
(principle of legality, loyalty, transparency).
 

98. This principle implies in particular that data controllers must comply with
the provisions of Article 13 of the GDPR for data collected directly from the
data subject, otherwise those of Article 14 of the GDPR, when the personal data
personal data have not been collected from the data subject himself, for example
those collected indirectly from the Grand Ducal Police.
 
Under these articles, the controller must provide the data subject with
information about the processing of personal data concerning him, in particular for
ensure fair and transparent treatment. In cases where Article 14 of the GDPR
would apply, such information should be provided to the data subject no later than one
months after the data controller has obtained the data.

 
99. In addition, according to Article 15 of the GDPR data subjects have the right to receive
certain information relating to the personal data processed by the person responsible for
processing (right of access).
 

100.

The attention of the authors of the bill should be drawn to the fact that without
explicit derogation in the bill, these rights would all be fully applicable. But he
seems that the authors of the bill intend to derogate from these rights when they provide
in article 1, paragraph 3, subparagraph 6, of the bill that “[t]he person who has failed the
background check may, upon written request and within thirty days from
the date of notification of the refusal or withdrawal, request from the Minister having the Police in his
attributions access to the opinion of the Police on which the decision is based, subject to the
legal limitations. The opinion issued by the commission is not communicated to it”.
 
Therefore, in such cases and in accordance with Article 23 of the GDPR, the details of the limitations,
as well as their duration should be provided for in the bill.
 
 
 
 
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

27/28

 
 
 
 


Thus decided in Belvaux on July 21, 2022.
 
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
 
 
 

Tine A. Larsen Thierry Lallemang Marc Lemmer
  President Commissioner Commissioner

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

relating to bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of July 26, 2002 on the
police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a

new terminal; the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and

 

the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport

28/28

