                                                          Legal cabinet

N/REF: 0037/2021

The consultation raises how to materialize the right to information provided for in the
Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of
April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to
to the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data (RGPD), in
relation to the processing of personal data derived from the Ministerial Order
TEC/544/2019, of April 25, which establishes and regulates the unified registry
on certificates and training centers for fluorinated gases, on the basis that
said state registry must be communicated the information available to the
autonomous communities (CCAA) in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree
115/2017, of February 17, which regulates the marketing and handling of
fluorinated gases and equipment based on them, as well as the certification of the
professionals who use them.

For what must be taken into account, according to the consultant or the CAM in

successively, certain aspects:

a) The information available to the Autonomous Communities is a consequence of their
certifying activity for professionals who market and handle
fluorinated gases and equipment based on them, (under the protection of the
repealed Royal Decree 795/2010, of June 16, and of the aforementioned Royal
Decree 115/2017 of February) so they handle two kinds of data,
those provided with the certification request, and therefore provided by
those interested, and those "generated" as a result of the certification,
and therefore, not contributed directly by those affected and derived from
the latter, considers the consultant, that the exception could be applied
provided for in article 14.5 b) of the RGPD.

b) The obligation to communicate the information available to the
CCAA to the unified state registry created by the aforementioned ministerial order
TEC/544/2019, and attached to the Spanish Office for Climate Change
(OECC) is subsequent to the collection of the personal data of which
the Autonomous Communities have, that is, it is a supervening circumstance that,
a priori, it was not contemplated in the initial treatment and therefore
reported this possibility.

c) The purpose of the unified state registry is, among others, that any
citizen can consult it and, therefore, the personal data of the
certified professionals are accessible to third parties through the following
link on the website of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the
Demographic Challenge: https://www.miteco.gob.es/app/gasfluorweb/

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                                     www.aepd.es

one

Legal cabinet

d) The volume of data to be transferred and the obligation to inform the
interested. There is a large number of possible interested
certified by the Community since 2010, until 2019 when
included in the authorization application form for the use of
fluorinated gases the indication that your data may be consulted
by any citizen. It is a group to report of the order of 18,000
people, that given the age of the data, due to the time elapsed
since 2010, could make the intended individual communication unfeasible,
when there have been changes of address, or having only the
address of the work center, as well as for lack of data from both
mobile phone numbers (mainly landlines), which
have also been able to vary over time, such as email addresses
electronically, among other obstructive circumstances.

Taking into account the above, it is considered whether it is possible to apply to the consultant what
indicated in article 14.5 b) of the RGPD and establish as an alternative measure to
inform, the publication of this "new treatment" on the website of the aforementioned
regional public administration, since the consultant considers that the publication
through official bulletins may not have the desired effectiveness.

I

A question of a general nature is extracted from the consultation, referring to how it affects the
right to information provided for in articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD, the circumstance
that an initially planned data processing with certain characteristics and
specific purposes is affected by the entry into force of a rule that
modifies the initial conditions of the treatment.
Indeed, the data processing derived from the repealed Royal Decree
795/2010, of June 16, and the one that replaced it, Royal Decree 115/2017 of February,
provided for registration in the Ownership Register of the designated competent body
by the Autonomous Community, of those certifications of professionals who
they use fluorinated gases and equipment based on them.
Thus, article 4 regulates the certifying activity and determines that the CCAA for
said activity will designate a competent body and in article 7.1 attributes to the
CCAA the power to attribute to a competent body the management of, among others, the
certificate registration.

Article 4. Personal certifications.
1. The personal certifications listed in Annex I are the documents
by means of which the Administration recognizes the holder's capacity to
carry out the activities in them designated in accordance with the previous article.
2. Personal certifications will be valid throughout the Kingdom of Spain and
in the European Union as established in Regulation (EU) No. 517/2014

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                              www.aepd.es

two

Legal cabinet

of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 16, 2014, on gases
fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation (EC) No.
842/2006.
3. The autonomous communities will designate the competent body, which must
be impartial, for the issuance, suspension and withdrawal of certifications
personal.
4. The different personal certifications will be granted by said body
authority, on an individual basis, to all natural persons who request it
and that prove, in accordance with article 5, compliance with the
corresponding conditions indicated in Annex I.
5. Each personal certification will be issued according to the established format
in annex III and registered in accordance with article 7.
Article 7. Registration and unique access
1. The autonomous communities shall designate a competent impartial body in
the performance of its activities for the maintenance of the following
records:
a) Record of certificates issued together with the cases related in the
article 6.2 and 6.3.

With the entry into force of Ministerial Order TEC/544/2019, of April 25, by the
that constitutes and regulates the unified registry on certificates and centers of
formation of fluorinated gases, it establishes the obligation of a new treatment
on those data included in the autonomous registry mentioned above, consisting of the
communication of such information to the state unified registry. Specifically, it is indicated
in its Statement of Motives that:

The purpose of this order, therefore, is the constitution and regulation
administration of the Unified Registry on certificates and training centers
of fluorinated gases, located in the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and in
which will collaborate the autonomous communities that have to send the
information that constitutes its content.

And it establishes in its Article 2 under the name Unified Registry on certificates
and centers for the formation of fluorinated gases. Legal nature, scope of application and
content, in its section 4 the following:

4. Said registry will be nourished periodically and through computerized means of
the updated records of the autonomous communities that contain the
information mentioned in the previous section, constituted under the
provided in article 7.1 of Royal Decree 115/2017, of February 17. In the
terms established in its sole transitory provision, will be incorporated
also the certificates issued under Royal Decree 795/2010, of
June 16, which regulates the marketing and handling of gases
                                                                                                                                                                     www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

3

Legal cabinet

fluorides and equipment based on them, as well as the certification of
professionals who use them.
The autonomous communities will previously inform the professionals
certificates that the essential personal data relating to them
may be consulted by any citizen in this unified Registry.

To which must be added what is indicated in its sole transitory provision on the
Existing certifications according to which,

The certificates of professionals and companies, as well as the authorizations to
training and evaluation centers, which would have been issued in accordance with the
provided in Royal Decree 795/2010, of June 16, and in Royal Decree
115/2017, of February 17, prior to the date of entry into force of
this order, they will be integrated into the Unified Registry on certificates and centers
formation of fluorinated gases.

It is obvious that, materially speaking, we are facing a new treatment that was not previously
existed, that is, before the data used -and generated- related to the
professional qualification remained in the registry of the CCAA granting the
itself, and now, after Order TEC/544/2019, of April 25, it turns out that said data
are communicated to a third party, to the OECC and are registered in a new registry -Registry
Unified - and can be consulted through the internet by any citizen or
company (a circumstance that already happened prior to the aforementioned Order.) Therefore,
Therefore, there will be a new assignee, the person in charge of the unified registry, and although
foreseen this situation, the third party that
try to consult this record.

II

Raised the terms of the consultation, it is necessary to clarify in advance, that when
The person responsible for the regional registry does not apply what is indicated in article 14
of the RGPD, since said precept refers to those cases in which the
Data is not provided by the owner, but rather reaches the data controller through
a third.
Article 14 whose denomination is “Information that must be provided when the
personal data has not been obtained from the interested party” indicates:

1. When the personal data has not been obtained from the interested party, the
responsible for the treatment will provide you with the following information

Likewise, it must be indicated that said precept will not be applicable when it is the
The person responsible is the one who generates them as a result of his activity. Consequently, his
application will be given when it is a third party -unrelated to the interested party and the person in charge- who
communicates the data to the person in charge for its treatment.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                              www.aepd.es

4

Legal cabinet

This clarification is important since the CAM, according to the consultation,
seems to understand that to the extent that the data that is communicated to the registry
unified are not strictly speaking, only those provided by the interested party, but are
they add the results of its certifying activity (registration number, key number,
date of granting, classification) article 14 RGPD would apply.
In the present case, the "information generated" after the certification, in terms
comparisons with the "provided by the interested party", it is only the Key, the number of
certification and date of issue. These will be the data that has not been provided by the
interested to the person in charge, but nevertheless they do not reach him through a
third party alien to him, but it is the responsible person who has created them.
Indeed, the fact that some data is not provided directly by the interested party, does not
means, always and in any case, that they have been provided by a third party outside the
responsible for the treatment (which implies the application of article 14 RGPD), but
that what happens in the present case is that the new information is created by said
responsible for the treatment, according to the specific purpose for which they have been
collected the personal data and for whose treatment is legitimized and of which
must have been informed in a timely manner in accordance with article 13.
Therefore, in relation to the data processing carried out by the General Directorate
of Industry, Energy and Mines (DIGEM hereinafter) must indicate that it is responsible for
the information regime provided for in article 13 of the RGPD and not in article 14.

III

From article 13 of the RGPD called “Information that must be provided when the
personal data is obtained from the interested party" the following should be highlighted:

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the moment in which these are obtained,
will provide all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the controller and, where appropriate, of
his representative;(…)
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the
legal basis of the treatment;(…)
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the data
personal, if any; (...)

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said subsequent treatment,
information about that other purpose and any additional information relevant to
tenor of section 2.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                                     www.aepd.es

5

Legal cabinet

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

In the present case, the communication of data to the unified registry is a treatment
supervening, that is, not initially foreseen and not expressly informed to the
interested at the time of data collection.
However, it must be taken into account that it is a new treatment carried out under
of the entry into force of a general legal provision that in the
time of data collection under the repealed Royal Decree 795/2010,
of June 16, it was impossible to foresee its existence.
Now, in Royal Decree 115/2017 of February, which replaced it, it was established
the obligation to constitute the unified registry in its article 7.2, whose origin
can be found in Regulation (EU) 517/2014 of the Parliament and of the
Council of April 16, 2014, on fluorinated greenhouse gases, which
Article 17 provides for the creation - no later than January 1, 2015 - of a registry
email for these purposes.
Therefore, the legal analysis must focus on how to satisfy the right to
information of those people who registered under the Royal
Decree of 2010 that did not provide for inclusion in the unified registry, since
As of the entry into force of Order TEC/544/2019, of April 25, the
consulting Autonomous Community, already expressly included the new
treatment in the informative clause established for this purpose.
To offer an answer in law it is important to take into account the following:
In the first place, the very literal wording of article 13.1 of the RGPD establishes
“when” the information is to be provided, “at the time it is obtained”,
Therefore, if the treatment is not planned at that time, obviously it cannot be done.
inform, however, when a new treatment is going to be carried out, in addition to
have an adequate legal basis, the duty to inform must be fulfilled, except
that any of the causes that exempt from the fulfillment of said duty concur.
In this case, it is appropriate to bring up the provisions of article 13.4 of the RGPD that
exempt from the duty of information of sections 1, 2 and 3, when and to the extent
in which the affected party has the information.
Precept that must be interpreted in connection with another element to be taken into account,
the principle of publicity of the rules and the purpose pursued with their
application, because let's not forget that the new treatment is planned in a
provision of a general nature that is part of the legal system and, therefore,
subject to the general principles of law, among which is the aforementioned
beginning.
Publicity of regulations is one of the pillars of the rule of law. In
Indeed, the Spanish Constitution, in its article 9, includes the principles in which
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                              www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

6

Legal cabinet

specifies the definition of the rule of law proclaimed in article 1, and guarantees
In addition to legal certainty, the publicity of the rules.
The Constitutional Court in its Judgment 179/1989, of November 2, has
referred to this principle in the following terms: "The Constitution, in its article 9.3,
guarantees the principle of the publicity of the norms. This warranty appears as
ineluctable consequence of the proclamation of Spain as a State of law,
and is closely related to the principle of legal certainty enshrined in
the same art 9.3 C.E., since only the legal positions of the
citizens, their ability to exercise and defend their rights, and the effective
Subjection of citizens and public powers to the legal system, if the
addressees of the regulations have an effective opportunity to know them as soon as
such rules, by means of an instrument of general dissemination that attests to their existence
and content, so they will be obviously contrary to the principle of publicity
those norms that were impossible or very difficult to know.”
This principle is especially related to the principle of legal certainty, which
other aspects serves the certainty of the citizen of the legal consequences of their
acts and the predictability of the response of the State and the rest of the subjects bound by
the norm, under the legal system.
Therefore, in the case of the query, the owners of the data who registered at the
protection of the indicated royal decrees are provided with instruments to know
that the registration they made in the regional registry will be communicated to the registry
unified state, because precisely the rule that has an impact on what is indicated
in those royal decrees and, above all, that is applicable to its activity
professional, foresees the existence of this new treatment. Indeed, the holders of
the data that will be processed are direct recipients of the standard
that provides for such treatment, and, therefore, it is presumed that they are in a position to
know how the new standard affects your personal data.
Therefore, those treatments of personal data that are modified by the
application of a legal provision of a general nature and that covers guarantees of
advertising, the owners of the data will find in said advertising, at least
information on the existence of the new treatment, and where appropriate, other
aspects that were not revealed because obviously they were not known or
even by the data controller.
From said publicity, to know the existence of a new treatment, the
affected may contact the person in charge or those in charge to exercise their
rights, in particular the right of access provided for in article 15 of the RGPD.
Another solution would entail a disproportionate effort for the person responsible for the
treatment. Think, for example, of processing a large volume of data that
make a public administration under its powers, or an entity
that handles millions of data from its customers and that after the entry into force of

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                                     www.aepd.es

7

Legal cabinet

a new rule that is applicable to it is expected that the data it handles will
be treated for another purpose or communicated to a third party, not initially foreseen.
The disproportionate effort that would be required to inform each holder of
the data. In practice, as a suitable and complementary solution,
update the privacy policies both in digital media and in the forms
of obtaining data -as it happens in the case of the query- and it would be taken into
account that the existence of this new treatment is established in a creditor norm of
the corresponding advertisement.
In conclusion, in those cases in which there is a treatment of personal data and
after the entry into force of a general provision, are modified
certain aspects of the same, with respect to the data previously processed, the
principle of publicity of the norms serves, among others, the purpose of offering
information about the existence of the new treatment, and as a result, the affected
may exercise, where appropriate, the rights it deems appropriate, such as the right to
access.

IV

What is resolved in this report should not be interpreted in the sense that any
processing based on a general legal provision should not be reported
in accordance with article 13 of the RGPD, -because its validity and application remains
unscathed-, but the specific circumstances referred to have been taken into account,
on the one hand, because the data controller did not offer certain information,
because the circumstances simply did not exist or could not be foreseen when
obtained the data -it is an unexpected treatment-, and on the other hand, taking into account
account that the treatment occurs as a result of the entry into force of a norm subject to
to the principle of publicity provided for in article 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution and
whose direct recipients are the owners of the personal data that will be
treatment object.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                              www.aepd.es

8

