

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in the EURODAC system
UOOU-02692/21



The inspection was initiated on the basis of the Inspection
of the Office's plan for 2021. Eurodac is a fingerprint comparison system
asylum seekers and certain categories of illegal immigrants. Based
of this system is to the competent authorities in the member states of the European Union
enabled the identification of asylum seekers and also the identification of persons who were
detained in connection with illegal crossing of the external border
European Union. In particular, the Office controlled the directly resulting obligations
from the so-called Eurodac regulation



[1]



.







The inspectors found none
misconduct in terms of the set scope of processed data, nor
in terms of the procedure for the collection and further processing of personal data.
In verifying this fact, the inspectors carried out three local investigations on
three different workplaces.




A minor error was detected
obliged to report all units to the Commission and eu-LISA
with access to data recorded in the central Eurodac system.
However, the auditee has already initiated remedial actions during the audit
The Office further informs about the status and progress in this matter.









A partial error was found
also in the area of instruction, when persons whose fingerprints are taken,
not all the information required by the Eurodac Regulation is transmitted. Also
in this case, the inspected person notified the work on
correction of the detected condition.









Controlled person against the protocol
she did not object to the inspection. As already stated, in the matter with the Authority
furthermore, it actively communicates with the aim of establishing the correction of detected errors.















Additional information:



By creating the Schengen area
checks at the internal borders of the Schengen area have been abolished and thus
also to remove obstacles to free movement. This undoubtedly contributed
to simplify the interstate movement of citizens of member states and to closer cooperation
individual countries, to ensure the efficient functioning of the entire system, however
appropriate rules needed to be adopted and that too in the area
personal data protection.










In the field of Schengen cooperation, the Office fulfills the task of a supervisory authority, which
oversees compliance with relevant regulations and thus contributes
to protect the fundamental rights of persons whose personal data is the subject
processing in the information systems of the Schengen area. More detailed
information on this issue is available here:



https://www.uoou.cz/schengen-informacni-systemy-eu/ds-1887/p1=1887

.















[1]



Ordinance
of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) No. 603/2013 of 26 June 2013 on the establishment
of the "Eurodac" fingerprint matching system for effective enforcement
Regulation (EU) No. 604/2013 establishing the criteria and procedures for the determination
of the Member State responsible for assessing the application for international protection submitted
a national of a third country or a stateless person in one
from member states, and for submitting requests to member law enforcement authorities
States and Europol on the comparison of data with data from the Eurodac system for enforcement purposes
rights and amending Regulation (EU) No. 1077/2011 establishing the European Agency
for operational management of extensive information systems in the area of freedom,
security and law



ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2022 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection – 1st semester > SCHENGEN > Inspection of personal data processing in the EURODAC systemView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



