 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

711.424.1 

Press Release 

17 July 2020 

After “Schrems II”: Europe needs digital independence 

After the adequacy of the “EU-US Privacy Shield” was invalidated by a recent decision issued 
by  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the  European  Union  (CJEU),  the  Berlin  Commissioner  for  Data 
Protection and the Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk, is now calling on data processors 
in Berlin to move any personal data stored in the USA to Europe. 

 

In  its  decision  of  16  July  2020  (“Schrems  II”,  C-311/18),  the  CJEU  stated  that  the  US 
authorities’  access  to  data  belonging  to  European  citizens  is  too  extensive.  As  a  result, 
personal  data  may  generally  no  longer  be  transferred  to  the  USA  until  the  legal  situation 
changes. There are some exceptions, especially in special cases stipulated by law, such as 
when booking a hotel room in the USA. 
 
One  of  the  findings  noted  in  the  CJEU  decision  concerns  the  government  surveillance 
measures  in  the  USA,  which  involve  the  mass  collection  of  personal  data  with  no  clear 
limitations.  This  contradicts  the  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights  of  the  European  Union 
(Paragraph 180 et seq. of the Decision). The CJEU also indicates that European citizens are 
unable  to  request  a  judicial  review  of  the  surveillance  measures  carried  out  by  the  US 
authorities. This violates the European fundamental right to effective legal protection. 
 
Personal data may only be transferred to third countries that ensure a level of data protection 
that is equivalent to the essence of the European fundamental rights. As the findings of the 
highest European court suggest that is not the case in the USA, the decision issued by the 
CJEU has invalidated the adequacy of the “EU-US Privacy Shield”, which was previously the 
basis  for  many  personal  data  transfers  to  the  USA.  By  contrast,  the  CJEU  has  ruled  that 
“standard contractual clauses” are admissible under certain conditions; standard contractual 
clauses can be established between European companies and providers in third countries to 
ensure the European level of data protection abroad. Before the first data transfer, however, 
the CJEU emphasises that both European data exporters and third-country data importers are 
obliged to check whether the data could potentially be accessed by government authorities in 
the third country in a manner that goes beyond the access rights granted under European law 
(Paragraphs 134 et seq. & 142 of the Decision). If such rights of access are enjoyed by the 
government authorities, data may not even be exported on the basis of standard contractual 
clauses.  Any  data  that  has  already  been  transferred  to  any  such  third  countries  must  be 
retrieved. Contrary to the prevalent practice to date, data cannot be exported merely on the 
basis of standard contractual clauses (Paragraph 126 et seq. of the Decision). 

Press Officer: Dalia Kues 

Office: Cristina Vecchi 

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de 

Friedrichstr. 219 
D-10969 Berlin 

Tel.: +49 301 388 9900 
Fax: +49 302 155 050 

 

 

 
 

- 2 - 

The CJEU emphasises that the data protection supervisory authorities must prohibit unlawful 
data exports according to these new standards (Paragraphs 135 & 146 of the Decision), and 
that data subjects may claim damages for the unlawful exportation of personal data (Paragraph 
143 of the Decision). This may especially include non-material damage (solatia); the amount 
of compensation must act as a deterrent in accordance with European law. 
 
The  Berlin  Commissioner  for  Data  Protection  and  the  Freedom  of  Information  calls  on  all 
controllers  under  her  supervision  to  observe  the  CJEU’s  decision.  Controllers  who  transfer 
personal data to the USA, especially when using cloud-based services, are now required to 
switch immediately to service providers based in the European Union or a country that can 
ensure an adequate level of data protection. 
 
Maja Smoltczyk: 
“The CJEU has made it refreshingly clear that data exports are not just financial decisions, as 
people’s fundamental rights must also be considered as a matter of priority. This ruling will put 
an end to the transfer of personal data to the USA for the sake of convenience or to cut costs. 
Now is the time for Europe to become digitally independent. 
 
The  CJEU  has  explicitly  obliged  the  supervisory  authorities  to  prohibit  all  unlawful  data 
transfers, and we gladly accept the challenge. Of course, that not only applies to data transfers 
to the  USA,  which  have  already  been  outlawed  by  the  CJEU;  we must also  check  whether 
similar  or  perhaps  even  greater  problems  are  involved  in  data  transfers  to  other  countries, 
such as China, Russia or India”. 

