Decision

Diary no

2020-01-31

DI-2019-298

Yellow-Belly Decision Systems AB
Surbrunnsgatan 32
113 48 Stockholm

Supervision according to the Credit Information Act
(1973:1173) – Yellow-Belly Decision Systems
AB
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
Datainspektionen revokes with the support of Section 17 of the Credit Information Act
(1973:1173) Yellow-Belly Decision Systems AB's (org. no. 556912-4885) permit
to carry out credit reporting activities.

Account of the supervisory matter
In December 2018, the Swedish Data Protection Authority drew attention to the fact that the company Nusvar
AB (Nusvar) launched the website www.Mrkoll.se (Mrkoll). On the website
published information about all persons who are registered in Sweden.
The Mrkoll website is covered by such a certificate of publication as regulated in 1
Cape. Section 5 of the Freedom of Expression Act. A constitutionally protected website
is not normally covered by the provisions of the data protection regulation
(GDPR). The Swedish Data Protection Authority noted, however, that concerning some of the
registered there was information i.a. that "x lacks payment notes".
In light of this, the Swedish Data Protection Authority assessed that Mrkoll can be accepted
covered by the provisions of the Credit Information Act. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
initiated against the background of this supervision according to the Credit Information Act against
Nusvar on December 18, 2018, DI-2018-22737. It appeared in connection
thus that much of the information that Nusvar published on Mrkoll
had been obtained from Yellow-Belly Decision Systems AB (the Company). The company has
have not applied for the Data Inspectorate's consent to hand over or
provide your credit information register to Nusvar. The Swedish Data Protection Authority started
due to this, supervision of the company on 9 January 2019.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-298

The Swedish Data Protection Authority has obtained an opinion from the company. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has
also carried out an inspection at the company. The company has in the opinion and in
In connection with the inspection, among other things, the following was stated.
The company is part of the group Nodeus Group AB. The company is
personal data controller for its own credit information database. The company has
not any other registers.
At the end of 2018, the company carried out a base lift of basic data from its database
to Nusvar's database. The company has since provided Nusvar with supplies
about any changes (incremental delivery) of basic data (name,
address, housing type and, where applicable, company) every 14 days at Sveriges
population over 18 years. That information is used to create the search service
Mr Koll. That delivery also includes aggregated information on income and
payment notes. The financial information is aggregated in
cluster of at least 30 people. Financial information and information about
payment notes are thus not issued at individual level.
Aggregations are pre-made or pre-prepared. When the company made the clusters
the company generates a file as an excel list and Nusvar imports it into its
database. The company does not know how Nusvar reads in information that Nusvar retrieves
from the company's server. The company has not received any indication that Nusvar has anything
problems with downloading the data. It doesn't happen in real time. The file transfer
between the company and Nusvar is encrypted.
According to the specification, the company releases the following information to Nusvar;
Personal data:
For example, information about social security number, date of national registration, name,
civil registration address, social security number for spouse, spouse's registered partner.
Household data:
For example, information about different address types such as single-family addresses,
multi-family address if housing association or other, members of the household
contains a list of ID numbers.
Board involvement:
For example, information about the social security number of the board member and function
in the board.

2 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-298

Company Name:
For example, information about the social security number of a board member, postal code,
postal address, turnover, company status today.
Aggregations area:
Is a table produced by the company that contains social security numbers and which
area to which the person belongs.
Area data:
Based on the company's developed cluster and containing aggregations of data,
i.a. financial data including presence of payment notes, for
an area. The cluster consists of e.g. maximum income, average income,
minimum income, median income for residents in the area.
Cluster refers to mathematical statistics based on postcode and street address,
combined to ensure that the content of the cluster is large enough
with dispersion measurements.
The company does not consider that the company transferred or assigned its
credit information register to Nusvar. The company only delivers
cluster information and address information to Nusvar. The company believes that
the company does not hand over credit information but de facto creates another
register, which is sent to Nusvar. It is thus a matter of different registers.
The company has therefore not applied for any consent according to section 13, first paragraph
the Credit Information Act.
In supervisory case DI-2018-22737, Nusvar has provided information that confirms this
what the company has stated about the parties' business relationship. The cooperation agreement between
the company and Nusvar were terminated on 8 April 2019 with immediate effect.

Reason for the decision
Applicable regulations
Section 13 first paragraph of the Credit Information Act states that registers which
used in credit reporting activities may be transferred or leased to another
only with the consent of the Swedish Data Protection Authority.

3 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-298

Section 17 of the Credit Information Act states that, in that case, the person who has permission
to carry out credit reporting activities overrides a provision in
the Credit Information Act, the Data Inspectorate may instruct him to take
correction or notice a condition. If correction cannot be effected on something
otherwise, the Swedish Data Protection Authority may revoke the permit. The same applies, if
the conditions for the condition in general no longer exist.
According to section 19 first paragraph 2 of the Credit Information Act, the person who intentionally
or through negligence violates section 13, first paragraph, is sentenced to a fine or
imprisonment for a maximum of one year. Section 20 states that a credit information register can
declared forfeited if the register has been handed over or leased in violation of § 13
the first paragraph.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the company through the basic lift of basic data from
transferred its credit information register to Nusvar's database
credit information register to Nusvar. The company has subsequently assigned its
credit information register to Nusvar through deliveries of updates and
information every 14 days from November 2018 to April 2019.
A certain part of the disclosure has concerned information in clustered form.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers this to be irrelevant with regard to the question of
the company's credit information register has been provided or not. All information
about natural and legal persons as a credit reference company
processed for credit reporting purposes is covered by the provisions of § 13
the Credit Information Act regardless of how the information is organized. It is not
possible to circumvent the provisions of § 13 by temporarily separating from certain
credit reference information from a credit reference register and place
the information in a separate register which is then called something other than
"credit information register". The current information is taken from
the credit information register even if the company processes the information according to
Nusvar's wishes before it is passed on to Nusvar. It moves thus
not about two different registers.
The company has by handing over and assigning its credit information register to
Nusvar without first obtaining the Datainspektionen's consent acted in
conflict with section 13 first paragraph of the Credit Information Act. The plot is to
regarded as serious because the Swedish Data Protection Authority would probably have refused
an application for consent if one had been made.

4 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-298

The Swedish Data Protection Authority has on previous occasions refused
credit reporting company's request for consent to transfer or assign
credit information register for companies that provide
credit report information on websites only supported by
certificate of issue. A company whose operations are covered by constitutional protection
does not need Datainspektionen's permission to operate
credit reporting activities. This circumstance means that
The Swedish Data Protection Authority cannot assess whether the company's operations can be assumed to be
conducted in an expert and judicious manner. The Swedish Data Protection Authority lacks
in addition, the possibility to decide on conditions according to the Credit Information Act for
such companies. Datainspektionen's refusal decision has been established by judgment in
the Court of Appeal in Stockholm, Case No. 8023-08.
Revocation of permit
The company has acted in violation of Section 13, first paragraph, of the Credit Information Act
by handing over and entrusting their credit information register to Nusvar
without Datainspektionen's consent. The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers it to be one
material default which is irreversible and which cannot be remedied by
an order to correct or by a new condition
be notified. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore finds reason to revoke the permit.

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision is being appealed and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. The Swedish Data Protection Authority sends the appeal
further to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination, if the inspection does not
itself changes the decision in the way you have requested. Even the Chancellor of Justice can
appeal the decision to safeguard public interests. Time for
however, appeals before the Chancellor of Justice are counted from the day the decision is made
was announced.
Provided that the appeal does not contain any sensitive to privacy
personal data or information that can be covered by confidentiality, you can e-mail
the appeal to datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se.

5 (6)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-298

This decision has been made by the unit manager Catharina Fernquist after
presentation by department director Hans Kärnlöf. At the final
Chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom participated in the proceedings.

Catharina Fernquist, 2020-01-31 (This is an electronic signature)

Copy to:
JK

6 (6)

