19.04.2021
Penalty for GDPR violation

The National Supervisory Authority completed, in March, an investigation at the operator Lugera & Makler Broker S.R.L., finding a violation of the provisions of art. 29 and art. 32 para. (2) and (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
As such, the operator Lugera & Makler Broker S.R.L. was penalized for contravention with a fine of 7,331.85 lei (the equivalent of 1500 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of a notification received from a natural person and a notification of personal data security violation sent by Raiffeisen Bank SA. from which it resulted that Lugera & Makler Broker S.R.L (person authorized by the Raiffeisen Bank SA operator) did not hand over to Raiffeisen Bank SA the documents related to the prescoring activities carried out by one of its employees, on the grounds that they were destroyed.
During the investigation, the National Supervisory Authority found that the operator Lugera & Makler Broker S.R.L. (as a person authorized by the operator Raiffisen Bank SA) has not taken measures to ensure that any natural person acting under its authority and who has access to personal data does not process them except at its request and has not implemented measures adequate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security corresponding to the processing risk generated in particular, accidentally or illegally, by the destruction, loss, modification, unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized access to personal data transmitted, stored or processed in another mode.
Also, as a result of the performance of 1372 prescorings by a sales agent, an employee of Lugera & Makler Broker S.R.L., 1058 targeted natural persons were affected by the security incident, as the original documentation related to the prescorings was not handed over by the agent , but destroyed, which generated the security incident notified by Raiffesien Bank to ANSPDCP, thus violating the provisions of art. 29, art. 32 para. (2) and (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.