Examination of selected safety areas: Ministry of Children and Education
Date: 15-01-2021
Decision
Public authorities
Based on the Ministry of Children and Education's answers to the questions sent, the Danish Data Protection Agency's overall assessment is that the Ministry of Children and Education's general maturity in the area of security is an expression of a level appropriate to the organization's processing activities for data subjects' rights and freedoms.

Journal number: 2020-421-0076
Summary
As part of the Danish Data Protection Agency's work to strengthen the data and risk-based approach to guidance and control, the Authority completed a number of questionnaire surveys in December 2020. The surveys were intended to shed light on the general maturity of selected security areas at seven public authorities and seven private companies. The questionnaires included i.a. issues for handling backup and breaches of personal data security as well as preparation of information security policies, contingency plans and documentation.
The Danish Data Protection Agency can state that the handling of backup in particular is an area that has the attention of the data controllers. In several cases, however, the Danish Data Protection Agency has assessed that the data controllers may have a greater focus on the establishment of contingency plans and contingency plans.
On 10 July 2020, the Danish Data Protection Agency sent a questionnaire to the Ministry of Children and Education.
The purpose of the Danish Data Protection Agency's purpose of conducting the written questionnaire survey was in particular to make an assessment of the Ministry of Children and Education's maturity in the area of data protection with a special focus on handling breaches of personal data security and compliance with information security requirements.
The Danish Data Protection Agency has also, on the basis of the Ministry of Children and Education's response, made an overall assessment of the measures that the Ministry of Children and Education has assessed as appropriate to address risks that the organization's processing activities pose to the data subjects.
1. The Danish Data Protection Agency's assessment
1.1. Established security measures
Article 32 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation [1] 1, states, inter alia, that the data controller, taking into account the current technical level, the implementation costs and the nature, scope, coherence and purpose of the treatment in question, as well as the risks of varying probability and seriousness for natural persons' rights and freedoms, implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of safety appropriate to these risks.
Based on the Ministry of Children and Education's answers to the questions sent, the Danish Data Protection Agency's overall assessment is that the Ministry of Children and Education's general maturity in the area of security is an expression of a level appropriate to the organization's processing activities for data subjects' rights and freedoms.
In this connection, the Danish Data Protection Agency's assessment is that the Ministry of Children and Education's responses regarding information security policies, handling of security breaches, backups and contingency plans in particular indicate that the organization has actively addressed any risks to data subjects that the organization has determined at an appropriate level. procedures and guidelines for safety and that the organization has otherwise established relevant safety measures.
Against this background, the Danish Data Protection Agency has not found any reason to take further action in connection with the information about established security measures.
1.2. Especially about documentation
Article 5 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation 2, states that the data controller is responsible for and must be able to demonstrate that the data controller complies with the principles for the processing of personal data mentioned in Article 5, para. 1, including i.a. personal data is processed in a way that ensures adequate security for the personal data in question, in accordance with Article 5 (2). 1, letter f.
In continuation of the above, however, the Danish Data Protection Agency has noted that, according to the information, the Ministry of Children and Education has only to a varying extent prepared documentation in relation to handling security breaches and contingency plans. On the basis of the answers given, it is therefore the Authority's immediate assessment that the Ministry of Children and Education may, depending on the circumstances, have difficulty - within a reasonable time - demonstrating (documenting) that personal data is processed in all cases in a way that ensures adequate security of the personal data in question, in accordance with Article 5 (2) of the Data Protection Regulation; Article 5 (2) 1, letter f.
Based on the Ministry of Children and Education's answers in relation to documentation, the Danish Data Protection Agency finds that there are circumstances which indicate that the Ministry of Children and Education can advantageously increase its focus on providing the necessary documentation if this has not already happened. Overall, however, the Authority finds that the Ministry of Children and Education's responses leave an impression that the organization has such maturity and works with data protection in such a way that there is no basis for the Authority to take further action on that occasion.
The Danish Data Protection Agency considers the case closed and will not take any further action.
The Danish Data Protection Agency's opinion can be brought before the courts, cf. section 63 of the Constitution.

[1] Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC (General data protection regulation).


