1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00339/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated January 19, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against COMMUNITY OF NEIGHBORS *** COMMUNITY.1 with CIF
H33314477 (hereinafter, the claimed part). The grounds on which the claim is based
are the following:

“some video-surveillance cameras have been installed for a month...the sign of
video-surveillance does not bring notice of the person responsible for the treatment of character data
personnel, in addition the President does not provide information on the video-
vigilance (...)” (folio nº 1).

Documentary evidence (Doc. No. 1) is provided as a photograph of a poster
informative that has not been filled in as to indicate the person responsible for the treatment
or where to exercise legally recognized rights.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred on 02/15/21 to the party
claimed, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform this Agency in the pla-
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
cough in the data protection regulations.

On 04/15/21, this Agency received a first written response indicating-
do the following:

“The company failsafe.com CB just installed a vi-
deo-surveillance formed by two fixed cameras, the images of these two cameras only
mind are recorded in a recorder that is in a locked cabinet and that they do not have
no remote access (…)”

“Therefore we state that the Community ***COMUNIDAD.1 (Oviedo) such

and as indicated by the Law, it complies with the installation of video-surveillance cameras”.

Documentary evidence material is attached, consisting of the minutes of the Board of
owners approving the installation of the system or informative brochure of the type of camera
Ra dome installed (Annex I).

THIRD: On 04/30/21 a new response is received from the one claimed in relation to
tion to the facts described, arguments identical to the first, where it manifests

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

“An image is attached where the poster clearly shows its content and the location of
the same".

FOURTH: On 06/28/21 the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing.

FIFTH: On August 5, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: When the database of this Agency was consulted on 10/04/21, no
no response has been received, nor has any corrective measure been adopted for this purpose,
despite the duly accredited double attempt at administrative notification and the
subsequent publication in the B.O.E on 09/03/21.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 01/19/21 through the
which the presence of a camera system is transferred without the sign informing
duly from the data controller.

Documentary evidence (Doc. No. 1) is provided as a photograph of a poster
informative that has not been filled in as to indicate the person responsible for the treatment
or where to exercise legally recognized rights.

Second. It is accredited that the main person responsible for the installation is the
Entity: Community of Neighbors *** COMMUNITY.1.

Third. The presence of the video-surveillance cameras is accredited, without the
poster informs about the person in charge of the treatment or contains an effective address to
which to address in case of exercising the rights recognized in articles 15-22
GDPR.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

Before going into the substance of the matter, in the Initiation Agreement dated 08/05/21,
informed that in case of not making allegations, the same “may be considered
motion for a resolution”, not having made any statement in this regard,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

According to an accredited query to the database of this organization on 10/04/21, by
which proceeds in the terms set forth.

Going into the merits of the matter, we proceed to examine the claim dated
01/19/21 through which the presence of a system is transferred as the main fact
video-surveillance issue without being duly informed, lacking the device
informative of the information required in this regard (vgr. responsible, purpose of the treatment-
lie, etc.).

The aforementioned facts suppose a violation of article 13
RGPD “Information that must be provided when personal data is obtained
Of the interested".

“When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the person in charge
of treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide you with all the information
tion indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.

 b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis

presenter;

treatment schedule;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate ses of the person in charge or of a third party; e) recipients or categories of
recipients of personal data, where appropriate;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of the transfers indicated in the articles
46 or 47 or article 49, section 1, second paragraph, reference to guarantees
adequate or appropriate and the means to obtain a copy of them or the fact of
that have been lent (…)”.

All data controllers who capture or record personal images
identified or identifiable persons for surveillance purposes by means of cameras, video-
cameras, or any other analogous technical means must have a distinctive informative
duly homologated to the regulations in force.

The art. 22 section 4 LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides: "The duty to inform
mation provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 will be understood to comply
by placing an informative device in a place that is sufficiently visible.
ble identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the identity of the person in charge
and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulations.
ment (EU) 2016/679 (...)” (*bold belongs to this body).

So that the interested party (s) can be duly informed, the poster must be as
large enough so that you can easily read it from a place where all
is not yet being recorded, and it must be completed in the aspects
essential cough.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

III

In accordance with the evidence provided by the claimant consisting of a photograph
(evidence document No. 1), it is considered that the party claimed has proceeded to install a
video-surveillance camera system without the proper information required by the
data protection regulations, as the badge is incomplete in the aspects
of the same: indication of the person in charge, address to which to go, etc.

The evidence provided determines that the poster is posted, although it is not
duly conformed to be the spaces destined to indicate the information in
white, so that it is not possible to determine the person responsible for the treatment or
where to exercise the rights regulated in articles 15-22 RGPD.

The evidence provided by the respondent on 04/15/21 determines
undoubtedly that there is a sign in the access area although it is not
duly conformed in terms of the requirements demanded in the regulations in force,
by not informing the data controller (vgr. Community of
owners, etc), without any correction having been accredited before this Agency.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the party
claimed, for violation of the content of article 13 RGPD previously indicated-
do.

IV

The Supreme Court (Sentences of April 16 and 22, 1991) considers that of the ele-
element of culpability, it follows “that the action or omission, qualified as an infraction
sanction administratively, must be, in any case, attributable to its author,
by intent or recklessness, negligence or inexcusable ignorance.”

The mere commission of an administrative infraction—objective type—is not enough to
time to proceed to impose an administrative sanction.

Guilt as reproach to the active subject of the injury of the legal interest
protected, is evident when the subject voluntarily performs the typical behavior
intentionally directed to obtaining the unlawful result, which is sought and
Dear.

In the present case, due to "carelessness" or omission, the informative badge is
incomplete, so that it does not fulfill its function of duly informing the
responsible for the treatment or provide an effective address before which to exercise the
rights recognized in the current RGPD, the conduct being considered as a
slight negligence, easily remedied.

Article 83.5 RGPD provides the following:

v

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, alternatively,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
greater amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

When motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

-the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question as well as the
number of affected parties and the level of damages they have suffered
(art. 83.2 a) RGPD); the installed sign does not allow the neighbors of the property to
recognize the person responsible for the processing of your data, nor the way to exercise the rights
legally recognized data for not having been completed with the required data.

-the intention or negligence in the infringement (art.83.2 b) RGPD).

The respondent had already been informed of a situation of "irregularity" of the internal cartel.
training to be the same without filling in legal form, for this reason it is considered that the
conduct described determines a slight negligence, given that he should have proceeded to correct
the situation denounced immediately, providing proof of it to this body.
nism.

For all the above, it is considered correct to impose a sanction encrypted in the
amount of €1,000 (one thousand euros), a sanction located on the lower scale for this type of
behaviors.

In accordance with art. 58.2 d) RGPD, the claimed party must prove in law
gal form that the poster(s) conforms to the regulations in force (vgr, photograph, date and
hour), as well as, that they comply with the rest of the requirements determined by the norm
tive in terms of data protection.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity COMMUNITY OF NEIGHBORS ***COMMUNITY.1,
with CIF H33314477, for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €1,000 (one thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to COMMUNITY OF NEIGHBORS ***CO-
MUNIDAD.1 and REPORT the result of the proceedings to the claimant A.A.A.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure Co-
of the Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the term of payment
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency
Department of Data Protection at the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case of
Otherwise, it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the payment
It will be valid until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If it is-
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the AEPD, P.O. the Deputy Director General for Data Inspection, Olga
Pérez Sanjuán, Resolution 4/10/2021

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

