 

 

 

 

 

      

Athens, 09-10-2018
  

 

 

PRINCIPLE OF DATA PROTECTION
 
OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 
 

 

 

     

Prot. No.: G/EX/7984/09-10-2018
 

 

 

 
 

 

A P O F A S H A . 63/2018
 

    

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invitation of its President, to a regular meeting at its headquarters on 24-04-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2018, following the meetings of 5-12-2017 and 27-02-2018, in order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

examine the case referred to in the present history. They were represented by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

President of the Authority, Constantos Menoudakos and the regular members of the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Constant nos
 

Christodoulou,
 

Spyridon
 

Vlachopoulos,
 

Constant nos
 

Lamprinoudakis, as rapporteur, Charalambos Anthopoulos and Eleni Martsoukou,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also as a rapporteur. The regular member of the Authority Antonios Symvonis and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his substitute, Panagiotis Rontogiannis, if they were summoned but also
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in writing, they did not attend due to obstruction. At the meeting, without right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vote, were also present, by order of the President, Ioannis Lykotraf and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Leon das Roussos, specialist scientists - auditors, as assistant lecturers, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative affairs department, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

secretary.
 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A number of complaints have been submitted to the Authority regarding undesirables
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone calls made with human intervention and purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the promotion of products or services of the company "Cosmote - Mobile
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Telecommunications SA" (hereafter Cosmote or our controller).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, in the past, examined corresponding complaints against the two
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responsible for processing and issued the no. 64/2016 Decision. With the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel.: 210-6475600, Fax: 210-6475628, contact@dpa.gr, www.dpa.gr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

This decision the Authority, examining six (6) related complaints about calls that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were carried out during the period October 2014 – June 2016,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

found violations of Article 11 of Law 3471/2006 and Articles 4, 5 and 13
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Law 2472/1997. With the aforementioned Decision, the Authority, after taking into account Mr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

difficulty in implementing the provision of article 11 of Law 3471/2006, due to the non-
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the existence of a consolidated registry, recommended Cosmote to adapt
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate the procedures it follows in terms of implementation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone calls for the purpose of promoting products and services,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

essentially recording all the legality conditions of the said
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

process personal data.
  

 

 

 

After issuing the above Decision, the Authority continued to accept
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints regarding receiving phone calls to promote products or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Cosmote services to telephone numbers of subscribers where they have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

object, in general, through the register of article 11 of Law 3471/2006,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

especially to our controller.
  

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority has read these latest complaints as well as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints submitted shortly before the issuance of the no. 64/2016
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Decision and therefore were not examined with said Decision, to the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cosmote, informing that the review of said complaints was aimed at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the company to take the required actions to investigate the complaints with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to deal with them and improve its procedures. Specifically, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Beginning with the no. prot. C/EX/5856/26-09-2016 its document communicated to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cosmote seven (7) complaints, with the no. prot. C/EX/7190/08-11-2016
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her document communicated to Cosmote another (1) complaint, with the no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prot. C/EX/2335/20-03-2017 her document communicated to Cosmote other
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

four (4) complaints, and with the no. prot. G/EX/ 4019/19-05-2017 document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communicated to Cosmote another six (6) complaints.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Due to the large number of complaints against our controller,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which continued even after the Authority's last letter to him, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority carried out an on-site inspection at Cosmote regarding its issue
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making phone calls for the purpose of promoting products and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services, according to article 19 par. h) of Law 2472/1997. The control
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was carried out on the one hand at the facilities of the company "COSMOTE E-VALUE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONTACT CENTER SERVICES ANONYMOUS COMPANY" (hereinafter E-Value),
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

partner of Cosmote for the aforementioned purpose, at the address at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6-8 Vasile th tou Megalo, Athens - Roof, P.O. 11854, on 26-06-2017 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the other hand, at Cosmote's facilities at 99 Kifis Avenue, P.O.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

151 24, Athens, on 06-29-2017, by the employees of the Auditors Department of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ioannis Lykotraf and Leon da Rousso of the Authority (hereinafter "team
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control"), after no. prot. C/EX/4852/23-06-2017 and C/EX/4869/23-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

06-2017 against the orders of the President of the Authority.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

During the inspection, Cosmote was provided with a printed version of the letter a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of complaints that have been submitted to the Authority during the last months, i.e. from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the end of December 2016 until the end of June 2017. The said letter concerned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fourteen (14) complaints, of which nine (9) have already been forwarded
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to Cosmote and before the audit, with the above mentioned Authority documents.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

During and after the on-site checks they were collected
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the control group a series of digital and printed persuasives. Also, the team
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

audit drew up the minutes of these audits, in which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responses/clarifications of the audited, as well as her on-site observations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control group. The draft of the minutes was sent to the companies by message
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by e-mail on 24-07-2017 (with reference no. C/EX/5655/27-07-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2017), while the companies sent their comments, by e-mail, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

07/08/2017 (with no. prot. C/EIS/6041/10-08-2017). Minutes later
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were finalized and sent to the companies (with the no. prot G/EX/6041-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1/24-08-2017 document of the Authority).
  

 

 

 

At the same time, the Authority requested, in writing, from the service providers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone communication let them grant her copies of the register data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 11 of Law 3471/2006 that they observe for their subscribers (hereinafter
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

opt-out registries). With these documents, he pointed out that it is necessary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information on the date of registration in the register, at least for a few days
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after 10-31-2016 and that in case the information of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

date of registration for earlier registrations (not as regards declarations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of subscribers during the first years of operation of the registry) the providers can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mark it with an indicative date of their choice. Ask also, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in case subscribers have been deleted from the register, to grant them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

record with their deletion dates. Providers provided this information,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in writing and in electronic form.
 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

Following these, the audit team studied the minutes in conjunction with them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persuasive evidence and the relevant documents, drew up and submitted to the Authority the no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prot. C/EIS/8198/15-11-2017 audit finding, in which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

key findings of the audit team regarding the subject of the audit,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as defined in section III of the entry and such
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

emerged after the analysis of the evidence. The analysis methodology of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

arguments as well as the results of the analysis are presented in detail
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in annexes A, B and C of the portal. Also, they are quoted in the conclusion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in detail the audit methodology (section II), the evidence of the audit, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nine (9) complaints forwarded to Cosmote before it took place
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on-site inspection, the five (5) related complaints the elements of which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were shared with Cosmote during the audit, as well as the documents that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sent and received by the Authority from the providers for obtaining copies of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of the register of article 11 of Law 3471/2006 that they keep for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their subscribers.
  

 

Also, the methodology with which they were examined is described in detail
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone calls made for promotional purposes for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cosmote account, within the first half of 2017.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In the conclusion, special mention is made of the complaints submitted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority regarding calls such as – based on the allegations of the complainants –

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were carried out within the first half of 2017 (see P naka at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix B of the book) and, therefore, it became possible to search and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

comparison with the aforementioned call data that have resulted from the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eValue and were carried out by it on behalf of Cosmote to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purpose of promoting Cosmote products and services.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The findings of the audit, as described in detail in the finding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

thereof, are summarized as follows:
 

 

 

 

1) It was established that for the account of OTE and Cosmote, during the first semester
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of 2017, a total of 16,611,108 calls were made to telephone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

numbers that belonged to subscribers at least 30 days before
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

date of the call they were registered in their provider's "opt-out" register
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(finding no. 1). Of these, 16,091,713 calls were made, since
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more than 60 days have passed since the number of the called party was registered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscriber to the "opt-out" register of his provider (see Table in Appendix A3
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 

of Portsmouth). These calls can also be separated into calls that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

made to numbers belonging to landline connections let,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of which 15,794,944 (to subscribers who had registered at least 30
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

days in the registry of their provider), and in mobile phone connections let, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

where are you, yes 816,164 (respectively). It is not possible to be more precise
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

division of the above number of calls into calls made for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

promotion of products and services of Cosmote and OTE respectively.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2) eValue has a process to receive individual “opt-out” registries;
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

but only from the "big" providers. The process can be improved
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as it was established that the register was not received from the Omninet company and that no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the requirement that all declarations of inclusion have been taken into account is always met
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the register submitted earlier than 30 days before
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making a call (finding #1).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3) It was established that no specific procedure is systematically followed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the satisfaction of the special feedback of the invited subscribers (finding under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. 2). Specifically, although eValue maintained the principle of objection (using
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the special software exclusion manager), during the check it was found that only
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if a guest reacts strongly negatively, the eValue employee
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he can enter his number in the same file.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4) It was found that the invited subscribers were not properly updated (finding under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. 3), as for the calls made by eValue, the answering machine at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at the beginning of the conversation, after stating his name, he says that he is good for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTE or Cosmote account without reference to eValue, while at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication content should not include an update about the feature
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercising the right of access and objection.
  

 

 

 

 

 

5) It was established that there is no proper procedure for observing consents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(finding no. 4) as the observed data only concern subscribers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of OTE/Cosmote. Corresponding consent is not provided for downloading
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

promotional calls from non-OTE/Cosmote subscribers.
 

 

 

 

 

 

6) No recorded procedure was found to be applied by Cosmote so that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to ensure that the appropriate conditions are met by eValue for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legality of the process of making promotional calls. It was talked about
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the inclusion of eValue in the annual inspection carried out by the Department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Internal Audit of the OTE Group, however, no more were granted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
 

details of the content of said inspection in order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

determine whether the object of the audit also includes the procedure a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making promotional calls. Also, it was found that it does not exist
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedure for informing eValue for proven cases
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints, including those forwarded to them by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APDPH. Consequently, although the complaints procedure is yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific (see Persuasion 18), no reference is made to the participation of eValue,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to identify any failure of the internal procedures and to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate revision of these (finding no. 6).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7) It was established that records of old subscribers are kept, as follows
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are used to re-attract them to the OTE group (finding under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. 7).
 

 

8) From checking the logs, it was found that several calls while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are answered by the called party, not routed to an operator (finding no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8). Specifically, from the total of 16,091,713 calls made for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

account of the OTE group in numbers that were included in its register
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 11 of their provider for more than 60 days, 911,405 calls have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

answered but have not been routed to an operator, which correspond to one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

percentage of the class, about 5.7%.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subsequently, Cosmote was summoned only, with the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/8307/17-11-2017 document of the Authority, in a hearing before it at the session
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of 5-12-2017, as our data controller, to provide further clarifications and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to present his views on the findings of the meeting. With the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document of the call, the Authority forwarded it to the person responsible for processing the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mentioned audit finding, the aforementioned audit minutes, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referred to in the finding with items a b' to d' relevant documents of the Authority with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to inform our data processor of complaints, those referred to in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

finding of complaints with elements o f that were carried out in the company during
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control, as well as older documents of the Authority with which he was informed about
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints, with the complaints attached (in digital format), and finally the document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with calls made to numbers that have been on the register for over 30
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

days (also in digital format).
 

 

 

 

 

The Authority's meeting on 5-12-2017 was attended by Eleni Gerutsi,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6
 

Cosmote's lawyer, who orally requested a postponement of her hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case, due to the fact that the data protection officer of the OTE group does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was able to attend the meeting. The project was rejected by the Authority and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

representative of the company received a deadline for submitting a memorandum. Then the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our processor submitted, within your express deadline, the no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prot. C/EIS/543/22-01-2018 memo in which he briefly mentions, between
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

others, the following:
 

 

 

a) Regarding making calls for promotional purposes to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone numbers registered in the opt-out register of their provider, o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cosmote reports that the Authority with no. 18/2016 He only imposed a decision on her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to OTE and OTE, and not to all providers, confirmation process
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of all the declarations of inclusion of their subscribers in their said registers, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consequently, the principle of equal treatment was not applied. This is how it is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

resulting in the actual deletion of the contents of the registers, as well as the news
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registers included only 13.9% of OTE's subscriber base and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.8% of Cosmote, after the particularly low response of their subscribers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the different ways of communication (outgoing IVR calls, statement to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13888, SMS). Therefore, according to the companies, a large number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of subscribers who had entered the register on their own initiative,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

opted out of it, according to the above procedure, without having it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

actually ask.
 

 

 

Moreover, the increase, from March 2016 onwards, of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registries of competing provider companies, such as Wind and Forthnet, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he lives that they acted uncontrollably in terms of the way they were observed, but also how
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to carry out their promotional actions via telephone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls. He also argues that due to the situation created by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

companies of the OTE Group (OTE and Cosmote) were largely excluded from the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communicate with the subscribers of both the three providers, who wanted them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to be informed about their offers, as well as with their own, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were unaware that they had been removed from the register, in compliance with the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. 18/2016 Decision. Instead, the company claims that other providers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they were completely unaware of the registers of OTE and Cosmote even after art
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due decision.
 

 

There were a total of 4,343 and 8,821 subscribers respectively for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7
 

fixed and mobile telephones, in the year 2017, who declared that they wish to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they receive calls from OTE and Cosmote companies, however they were part of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registries of other providers and thus could not be called while they existed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases where this happened during the second month (in the above note it is quoted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a l to the indicative numbers that requested a "call back" through the website, only
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the 1st of every month from 1/1/2017 to 1/10/2017).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Also, the company claims that because of the automated system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dialer, a percentage of calls are due to system failure or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for other technical reasons. Furthermore, they report that the vast majority (up
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of 80%) of the calls were missed, and therefore the subscribers did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they were disturbed.
 

b) Regarding the updating and receipt of all registers, the company a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

claims that in some cases of receiving the updated months
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of situations may have passed a period of time beyond two months from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the declaration of registration of subscribers in the registers, unless delayed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

response of the other providers and their non-timely inclusion in their registers.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c) Regarding making calls for promotional purposes to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone numbers that they have specifically objected to receiving
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

phone calls, Cosmote denies the existence of a separate finding,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as it is invoked that there is and a specific procedure is followed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

managing subscriber or street objections and creating a special archive,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

using special software that number 197,244 entries, both yours
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscribers and other providers, while also in the CRM system (Siebel)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the option to register the customer's nuisance is given, in order not to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

called again. With reference to the procedure for registering the future refusal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

let's contact the subscribers of other providers, the company thinks yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

absolutely legitimate to refer them to their provider, in order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submit the relevant registration number in the register 11.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Additionally, he argues that the separation of lists between
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscribers of the group and those of the remaining providers are legitimate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

option, as there may be another way to communicate with the first ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of the transactional relationship.
 

 

 

 

 

d) With reference to the notification of the person called, in the above memo
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is stated that the callee receives sufficient information about his identity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8
 

data controller. In the opposite case, if reference was also made to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I was doing the eValue processing, it would get confused about it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

actual identity of the person in charge and the legal entity with the name o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscriber contracts and generally transacts. Furthermore, it is reported that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the rights of the subject, there is full information on the internet
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

location of the company, as well as in every contractual document signed by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscriber. The company also notes that the average consumer is aware
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

about his rights, as well as how to exercise them (as well as yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also known as their customer service.)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e) Regarding the maintenance of a special register of consents for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making promotional calls, the company notes that regarding them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its subscribers keep a special file, which includes the relevant statement, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the relevant options are provided in the applications - service contracts. For
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the remaining subscribers of other providers, their will is also recorded
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to receive communications from Cosmote, but this applies every time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific advertising campaign with a specific end date.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f) Regarding the security of our processing and the organizational measures for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensuring the necessary guarantees in terms of compliance with them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions of legitimacy from the external partner, Cosmote notes that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the dialer system kept all the necessary data to investigate someone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaint for 12 months. I executed the OTE and Cosmote contracts with her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her
 

processing eValue provide
 

 

 

the obligations
 

 

of eValue for
 

 

 

confidentiality and security of our processing. Also contained are clauses for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the obligation of eValue to comply with the guidelines of OTE/Cosmote in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making outgoing calls and exclude those registered to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

register 11. In addition, OTE/Cosmote provides guidelines and directions to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eValue in the form of special documents called "work guides". While,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

finally, the operation of eValue as a member of the OTE Group is governed by the two
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Binding Rules for the protection of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Binding Corporate Rules Privacy - BCRPs) of the OTE Group.
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

g) As regards the maintenance of the data of old subscribers, the company considers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that no provision of law is violated by the processing of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of old subscribers when carrying out promotions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

actions towards them. He notes that a former subscriber has the reasonable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9
 

I expect the relevant information from OTE Group to be as soon as possible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personalized and related to his needs, as they arise from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his consumer behavior, when he was a customer of the OTE Group.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

h) Finally, regarding calls that are not routed to an operator,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is noted that the percentage of these calls is particularly small (5.66%) and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

justified as a technical failure resulting from the division of calls
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the available call center operators.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

After the filing of the above memorandum, Cosmote was only summoned,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the no. prot. C/EX/1295/13-02-2018 document of the Authority, in hearing from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

before it again at the meeting of 27-02-2018, as the person in charge of our processing, for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to give further clarifications and to set out her views in detail. At
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meeting of the Authority on 02-27-2018 was attended by Eleni Arapaki, Lawyer,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Aglaia Margarti, Lawyer, A, Director of Telephone Sales, and B,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Director of Security and Personal Data of the OTE Group. According to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hearing, the above representatives presented their views orally. Following
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the hearing, the person in charge of processing filed the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EIS/2035/13-03-2018 memo. In this memo, the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Let's edit mainly repeats the views he has listed with it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

previous note, and adds assertions referring to the consequences
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of no. 18/2016 of Decision. In particular, it briefly mentions, among other things,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The following:
 

 

a) Regarding making calls for promotional purposes to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone numbers registered in the opt-out register of their provider, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cosmote reports that the purpose of the provision of article 11 of Law 3471/2006 yes no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protection of individuals/consumers and not of the competing provider. Company a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reiterates that the Authority with the no. 18/2016 Decision imposed on her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

selectively to DIA and OTE, and not to all providers, sanction. And
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this instead of checking the internal procedures of the other providers and to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

issue a relevant guide for the uniform application of the way of receiving statements
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of subscribers for registration and overall for the manner of keeping the article register
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11 from all providers, thus creating an unequal situation,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as supported by company a.
  

 

 

 

The company adds that it fully complied with the no. 18/2016
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10
 

Decision, although in accordance with the principles of this treatment, of your measure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attitude and justified confidence, he expected the creation of a single
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

framework to regulate the situation and to be applied by others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

providers.
 

b) In the memorandum the company also notes that, as it has already pointed out
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the Authority in the relevant Decisions (no. 63 and 64/2016), there is a difficulty
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the implementation of the provision of article 11 of Law 3471/2006. Also, he claims that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company communicates with its own subscribers for other purposes as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the advertisers, while expressing doubts about the validity of the conclusions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which are extracted from the data for the unique numbers of OTE subscribers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Cosmote who were invited, as some of them may have requested to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

receive information about products and services through telephone calls from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the company a. Consequently, in the company's opinion, it is not substantiated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation for these subscribers.
 

 

 

 

 

c) The company states that the no. 18/2016 Decision created one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unequal and fictitious situation, because after the deletion of the original register, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscriber response was quite low (12% for Cosmote). As cm
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

therefore, the rights of its subscribers were put at risk, while the others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

providers were acting uncontrollably in keeping their record, in the way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

carrying out their telephone promotions and in respect
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Cosmote register.
 

 

 

 

d) Regarding making calls for promotional purposes to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone numbers of subscribers who have specifically objected to the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

receive phone calls, Cosmote reports that feedback from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscribers to receive promotional calls from the company has no permanent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, but it concerns a specific advertising campaign and yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extremely likely that the callee will express at some point if called back to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subsequent advertising campaigns, interest to inform about another
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

product.
 

e) With regard to informing the guests, the company claims that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a call for the purpose of promoting a service should be short and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

comprehensive, and that if it is burdened with multiple regulations and legislation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligations will be converted from a telephone sale to a quotation call
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information to the caller.
 

 

 

 

11
 

f) Regarding the maintenance of old subscribers' data, the company a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

states that the companies of the OTE group in the context of their compliance with the new
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

General Regulation 2016/679 on the Protection of Personal Data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(GDPR) re-evaluate all the personal data they keep and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processed, as well as the duration of their retention.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file and the opinions,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

developed by Cosmote in the meetings from 5-12-2017 and 27-02-2018,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after hearing the rapporteurs and the clarifications of the assistant rapporteurs, as follows
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after discussion and before conference and decision-making,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. The person in charge of processing shall be designated by law (Article 2 letter g) Law 2472/1997)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

whoever "...determines the purpose and method of processing, as natural or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal person, public authority or agency or anyone else
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organization...". Accordingly, the processor is assigned to the following
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

follow his
 

 

of the article as "anyone who processes data
 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature on behalf of a data controller, such as...".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As stated in Opinion 1/2010 of the O.E. of article 29 (see p. 11) "H
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

status of the person in charge of the processing is primarily a consequence of it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

factual situation that an entity has chosen to process
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data for its own purposes. Also, in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 via Opinion (see p. 16) states "A pragmatic approach is required
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which will place greater emphasis on the discretion to determine them
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

objectives and decision-making ability. In these cases the question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is why the processing is taking place and what is the role of contingencies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of connected actors, such as outsourcing companies: would have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processed data by the company acting on the basis of outsourcing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if it had not been defeated by the controller, and under what conditions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions? The processor may further operate based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

general guidance, which is mainly provided on the objectives and not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12
 

he goes into great detail as to manner." In the Opinion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the O.E. of article 29 (see p. 18) comes to the conclusion "The determination
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "purpose" of the processing rests with the "controller".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Whoever takes this decision is, therefore, (de facto) responsible for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing. Determining the "how" of the processing may be delegated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to a third party by the data controller, in terms of technical or organizational aspects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 tasks. Substantial matters which are important for its evaluation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the legality of the processing are under the responsibility of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing".
  

Furthermore, regarding the definition of the person performing the processing a, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above Opinion states (see pp. 30-31) "The most important element is the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligation for the processor to act "...on his own behalf
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller". Action on behalf of another means the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

serving someone else's interests and remembers its legal meaning
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

delegation of powers' and 'However, the delegation of powers may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

still imply some degree of discretion about it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

better
 

way
 

service
 

of interests
 

 

of the person in charge
 

 

her
 

processor, allowing the processor to choose the most
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate technical and organizational manner."
  

 

 

 

 

This Opinion also provides an example of role evaluation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller and processor for centres
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

call (see example no. 20, p. 34) "A person in charge of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing outsources some of its work to a centre
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls and gives
 

 

 

order the call center to appear
 

 

 

 

 

 

using the identity of the data controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

when calling the data controller's customers. In
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in this case, the expectations of the customers and the way in which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller is presented to them through the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

outsourcing lead to the conclusion that the outsourcing company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

commission acts as a processor for its controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing (on his behalf)."
 

 

 

 

The issue of phone calls, for direct marketing purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

products or services and for both advertising purposes,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regulated in article 11 of Law 3471/2006, in which the relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13
 

 
2.

 

unsolicited communications (see par. 1 and 2). With the provisions of the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16 par. 1 and 2 of Law 3917/2011, par. 1 and 2 of the article were amended
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11 of Law 3471/2006, so that Article 11 par. 1 of Law 3471/2006 defines
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

further that: "The use of automatic dialing systems, in particular using
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

facsimile (fax) or e-mail devices, and more generally n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making unintended communications by any electronic means
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication, without human intervention, for direct marketing purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

promoting products or services and for any kind of advertising purposes,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is only allowed if the subscriber expressly consents in advance", whereas
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph 2 of this article states that: "It is not allowed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making unintended communications with human intervention
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(calls) for the above purposes, as long as the subscriber has declared to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the provider of the service available to the public, that he does not generally wish
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to receive such calls. The organization is obliged to register them free of charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these statements in a special list of subscribers, which is available
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

every interested party".
 

 

Consequently, after 01-09-2011, the date on which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

effect of the amended provision, telephone calls with a human
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

intervention, in view of the above purposes, are allowed, unless the called
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has declared that he does not want them ("opt-out" system). The opt-out system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it has the consequence that natural or legal persons can address them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their objections, regarding the processing of their data, etc
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specifically, directly to our controller (i.e. the advertiser)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercising the right of objection regarding personal processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data based on article 13 of Law 2472/1997 and generally, through the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their registration in the special list of subscribers of the provider it provides for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 11 par. 2 of Law 3471/2006. The law provides for the creation of registers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

("opt-out") to each provider and the subscriber can declare free of charge, at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

own provider of electronic communications services, that he did not wish to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

receives telephone calls for direct marketing. Every
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provider bears, with the aforementioned provision, the obligation to comply with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these statements, Public Registry that served a public purpose and in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which is accessible to anyone who is interested in using it directly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

commercial promotion.
  

 

 

14
 


3.

Article 10, paragraph 3 of Law 2472/1997 also states that "The responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processor must take appropriate organizational and technical measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the security of the data and its protection from accidental or unlawful
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

destruction, accidental loss, alteration, prohibited dissemination or access and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any other form of unfair processing. These measures must ensure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

level of security commensurate with the risks involved in the processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the nature of the data that is the subject of the processing....” while in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 4 of the same article states that "If the processing is carried out for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

account of the person in charge by a person not dependent on him, or the relative
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assignment must be made in writing. The assignment obligatorily provides that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

active, the processing is carried out only by order of the person in charge and that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other obligations of this article shall be borne by him accordingly."
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. Based on the above provisions, the Authority, with the no. 64/2016 Decision,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

addressed a recommendation to Cosmote to adapt appropriate specifics
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedures he follows in terms of making telephone calls
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls for the purpose of promoting products and services. In
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This decision, as in the considerations of no. 62-63/2016 and 65-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

67/2016 of the Authority's Decisions concerning the same issue, described
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the way that Cosmote, but also every data controller,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must act when making telephone calls for the advertisement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its products or services, so that its conditions are met
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 11 of Law 3471/2006, but also the general conditions of legality
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data provided for in Law 2472/1997.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. As it appears from the evidence in the case file, eValue has
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

undertake a number of telephone service services, among them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as well as making advertising calls to promote them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

products and services of OTE and Cosmote, which belong to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTE group. The way of promoting the services and the products of both
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTE (fixed telephone and pay TV) as well as Cosmote
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(cell phone let's) yes common, confirmed/established fact
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and from the examination during the control of indicative telephone scenarios
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls, thus, as noted above, making it impossible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accurate breakdown of total outbound promotional calls that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were carried out by eValue in those carried out for the promotion of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15
 

products and services of Cosmote and OTE. The two companies have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

moreover, they decided to have a common corporate image, despite maintaining it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

different legal status. Each of these two companies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

determines the context of each advertising campaign it will run for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eValue's account (e.g. number to call, candidate description
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

customers, etc.), while jointly determining other details of the method
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eValue operator. Therefore, it is clear that Cosmote was
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responsible for our processing for the issues under consideration in this Decision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

activities. eValue has the role of processor,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as it processes the data for the account of those in charge and not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for its own purposes.
 

 

 

 

 

6. Furthermore, the following emerges from the evidence of the case file:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) Cosmote, through eValue as processor,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

make calls for promotional purposes to telephone numbers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

who are registered in their provider's "opt-out" register. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number of these illegal calls for the two companies of the OTE Group
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(OTE, Cosmote) for the first half of 2017 amounts to 16,611,108.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As discussed above, the precise separation of calls that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were carried out to promote OTE and Cosmote products no yes yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possible, as the two companies have decided to promote together
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their products and services, as evidenced by the indicative
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

scripts of the calls included in the elements of the control, while not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority received a series of calls per company. In every
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case, because the network and services of OTE concern a fixed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Cosmote's mobile phones and counterparts, it is assumed that according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

most of the calls made to landlines concerned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the promotion of OTE products and services, and respectively to mobile phones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for Cosmote products and services, without however excluding this
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as noted above that many calls involved combination
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

promotion of products and services of both companies, which they belong to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

moreover, in the same group. The number of invited subscribers is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

joined their provider's opt-out register for a period of time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

longer than thirty days, while Cosmote did not provide any specifics
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consents for making calls to said telephone numbers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16
 

numbers, in order to document their legitimacy. From those presented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

log showed that thousands of calls are made
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

daily for promotional purposes. Making calls
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these, as described in the audit report, was not challenged
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

essentially by the controller. Cosmote claims that some
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the calls made to the subscribers of the OTE group companies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the consent of the subscribers, because some of them may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they had requested to receive such information. The claim that there was
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent for certain calls to subscribers, yes unproven
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

because the consent of the subscribers has not been secured, such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

required according to article 5 of Law 3471/2006, according to which the consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must be complied with in writing and electronically. Besides, even if
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these calls are not taken into account, a very large number remains
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls to subscribers of other providers for the ones it does not have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obtain consent
 

 

 

them, as well as from
 

 

 

total
 

 

of
 

of the aforementioned 16,611,108 calls, only 565,926 concerned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTE subscribers and 665,257 Cosmote subscribers. Cosmote
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

claims to communicate with its own subscribers and for others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes, apart from advertising purposes, however, no information was provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nor does it appear that the company complied, as it had an obligation, with the appropriate measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data in the call system to make it possible to separate them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls made by eValue for these different purposes.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The company acknowledges that there may be reasonable delays
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registration of telephone numbers in the registry, as well as each provider
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responds at a different time and therefore may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

do not respond in time. However, from the audit evidence reviewed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the first half of 2017 it emerged that the other providers respond to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at the latest within four (4) days to eValue's requests, while respectively
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there was a case in which the period of time that has elapsed since
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eValue's previous time to other providers was 34 days.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Therefore, as long as it appears that the other providers respond to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reasonable period of time to its requests, it is not particularly justified
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

large number of illegal calls, given that eValue has
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possibility of more timely sending of the relevant requests.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17
 

b) From all the audit findings, as described in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

history of the present and are analyzed in the conclusion, the Authority considers that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cosmote has not implemented the most appropriate procedures for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possible elimination of technical or human errors or even for their detection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of any malfunctions, in violation of article 10 of Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Specifically:
 

i) Effective compliance procedures are not implemented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

file of special objections, in order to satisfy the will of subscribers,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Cosmote and of any other provider, which express it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their response to receiving promotional calls on behalf of the company.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accordingly, no proper procedure is applied for the observance of consents,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as the data kept only concern their subscribers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTE/Cosmote, while no corresponding consent is provided for downloading
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

promotional calls from non-OTE/Cosmote subscribers. Relatively, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cosmote claims that feedback from subscribers on the download
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of promotional calls from the company does not have a permanent nature, but
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It concerns a specific promotional campaign and it is extremely possible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invited to express at some point, if called upon again in subsequent ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

campaigns, interest to be informed about another product. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this claim, however, is unfounded because the right of objection is exercised
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the controller as a whole, and not in respect of individual ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

action thereof, while the objection is valid until its possible removal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

providing newer specific consent.
 

 

 

 

ii) The right to information of the invited parties is not properly satisfied
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users or subscribers, as in its content do not communicate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information on the identity of the company representative is included
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for whose account the call is made nor information about it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possibility of exercising the right of access. Her business
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

let us know that the information about the identity of the person performing the processing a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

would create confusion for the called party, and that the information about the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights of the called party would "encumber" the call and cancel him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its commercial nature, do not negate the obligation of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

process to apply appropriate procedures to comply with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his legal obligations, without causing confusion to the called party or to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18
 

informing him of his rights is omitted.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii) Cosmote does not adequately monitor eValue for compliance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal procedures during phone call promotions.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In particular, it has not carried out any relevant on-site inspection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this matter has not been subjected to any other relevant control action, e.g.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has not requested λ in outgoing calls from eValue, regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls made on his behalf, to check if these
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were made to numbers that are not registered in his "opt-out" register
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their provider, while the agency states that many of the non-marital ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of calls made are due to system failure or others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technical reasons in processing through the dialer system. Moreover, no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eValue's information or involvement in its cases was mentioned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

handling complaints submitted.
 

 

 

 

iv) A sufficient number of calls are answered by the called party but, due to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technical or organizational failure, according to Cosmote's claims, no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are routed to an operator, in violation of our processing obligation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to ensure the conditions so that all calls are routed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

operator, such as having an operator available before
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the call was made, because otherwise it would not be possible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

satisfaction of any right of the called subscriber or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

user.
 

 

7. Cosmote claims with its pleadings that the Authority with no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18/2016 Her decision was imposed only on DIA and OTE (and not on everyone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the providers) confirmation procedure of all their membership declarations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their subscribers in their registers, and therefore the principle was breached
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of handling, while keeping the article 11 register is not yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

uniform or appropriate from all providers. However, even if the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cosmote has found an unexpected increase in the number of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registered in the "opt-out" registers of the other providers, the doubts of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as to the validity of the registers they do not see the prohibition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of making calls to numbers that appear registered to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these, since such processing is clearly contrary to its provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 11 par. 2 of Law 3471/2006.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regarding the fact that data is kept and processed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19
 

 
8.

 

of old subscribers to re-attract them to the OTE group, i
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cosmote denies that any provision of the law is being violated and promotes it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Argument that a former subscriber has a reasonable expectation of the relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information from OTE Group to be yes as possible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personalized and related to his needs. However, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing for this purpose requires prior valid consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

because the subscriber status ceases from the end of the customer relationship or,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

since it was considered that a superior legal interest was established, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

old subscribers to at least be informed specifically about him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above purpose of our processing, but it did not appear during the check that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there was a relevant update. In fact, the holding company reports that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

companies of the OTE group in the context of their compliance with the new General
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulation 2016/679 on the Protection of Personal Data (GDPR)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

re-evaluate the set of personal data they maintain and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processed, as well as the duration of their retention.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9. Taking into account the above violations and n as the particularly large one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

absolute number of violations (at least 816,164 illegal calls,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with what is mentioned above in the history and point 6 thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reasoning) that were established, the fact that the controller, if
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and has improved some procedures, it does not apply properly in practice
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technical and organizational measures while having sufficient time at his disposal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

period from the issuance and notification of Decision 64/2016 to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

date chosen by the Authority for the start of the audit of the documents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of recorded calls (1/1/2017), and was therefore able to apply
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

effective procedures for its compliance with its recommendations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Principle, of the fact that the person in charge clearly processes the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

actions aimed at making a profit, the Authority considers that it should
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

imposed on the person in charge of the processing provided for in article 21 par. 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

item b' of Law 2472/1997 sanction referred to in its operative part
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present, the penalty is proportional to the gravity of the violations.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

20
 

The Authority imposes, based on articles 19 par. 1 item. f and 21 of Law 2472/1997
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 13 par. 1 and 4 of Law 3471/2006, to the company "Cosmote - Mobile
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Telecommunications SA" a fine of 150,000 Euros for the above findings
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violations of the provisions of Article 11 of Law 3471/2006 and Article 10 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

The President of the Authority
 

 

 

 

   

 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 

Constant Menoudakos

 

                                  

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21
 

  

 

  

 

 

