 

 

 

 

      

     

Athens, 05-24-2018
 

 

 

 

PRINCIPLE OF DATA PROTECTION
 
OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 

 

 

     

Prot. No.: G/EX/3993/24-05-2018

 

 

     

      

 

A P O F A S H 46/2018
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Plenary meeting at its store on 22-05-2018 following the invitation of its President,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to examine emerging issues of applicable law during
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

transitional period until the publication of the national law. K. were present.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Menoudakos, President, who also acted as rapporteur, A. Symvonis, S.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vlachopoulos, K. Lamprinoudakis, X. Anthopoulos, regular members, and Em.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dimogerontakis, substitute member, replacing regular member E.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Martsoukou, who, although summoned only in writing, did not attend due to obstruction.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Present at the meeting, without the right to vote, were E. I. Tsakirdou, F.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Karvela and G. Panagopoulou, specialist scientists, who left after the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

discussion and before the conference and decision-making, and the E.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Papageorgopoulou, employee
 

 

secretary.
  

 

of the Department of Administrative Affairs, as
 

 

 

 

 

The Authority considered issues of applicable law during the transitional period until
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the publication of the national law, such as the Authority's authority to grant permits
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in cases not imposed by the General Regulation on Protection a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data.
  

The Authority, after hearing the rapporteur and the expert scientists, the following
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1

withdrew after discussion and before conference and decision-making, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after thorough discussion,
  

 

 

 

SEVENTH ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. According to recitals 89, 90, 91 and 171 of the GDPR:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"(89) Directive 95/46/E provided for a general notification obligation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data to the supervisory authorities. Although the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this obligation implies an administrative and financial burden, it did not contribute to all
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases in improving the protection of personal data.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Therefore,
 

general
 

liabilities
 

notification
 

such
 

kind of
 

without
 

variations, should be removed and replaced with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

effective processes and mechanisms that focus on them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the types of processing operations that may result in high
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons because of it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their nature, scope, context and purposes. These things
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our processing operations may include, for example, the use of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of new technologies or of a new type and when it has not been carried out previously
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data protection impact assessment by the controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing or when they become necessary due to the time that has passed since
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

initial processing a.'
 

 

"(90) In these cases, the controller, before the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, should carry out an impact assessment regarding it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data protection, in order to assess the particular possibility and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

severity of the high risk, taking into account the nature, extent,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

context and the purposes of the processing and the sources of the risk. The one in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

impact assessment should include, i.e., the measures envisaged,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

guarantees and mechanisms that mitigate this risk, ensure it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protection of personal data and demonstrate compliance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for this regulation."
 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

"(91) This should apply in particular to large-scale processing operations which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aim to process a significant amount of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at a regional, national or supranational level, which they could influence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

large number of data subjects and those who are likely to have as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

high risk result, for example due to their sensitivity, when
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to the existing levels of technological knowledge a new one is used
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technologically on a wide scale, as well as for other processing operations such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

result in a high risk to their rights and freedoms
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subjects, i.e. when these actions make it difficult to exercise them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights of data subjects. It should also be carried out
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data protection impact assessment when the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature are subject to processing in view of decision-making
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relationship with specific natural persons after systematic and extensive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assessment of personal aspects concerning natural persons and based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

preparation of profiles based on said data or after processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific categories of personal data, biometric data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or data concerning criminal convictions and offenses or related measures
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security. A data protection impact assessment is required
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also for monitoring publicly accessible spaces on a large scale,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

n as when using opto-electronic devices or for any others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

works whenever the competent supervisory authority considers that the processing may have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

resulting in a high risk for the rights and freedoms of their subjects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data, namely because it prevents data subjects from exercising any
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights or to use a service or contract or because they are
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

systematically in large kl maca. The processing of personal data does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

should be considered to be of a large scale if the processing concerns data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of patients or clients of a private doctor, another professional
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

field of health or lawyer. In these cases, its impact assessment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data protection should not be mandatory."
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"(171) Directive 95/46/EC should be repealed by this Regulation.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3

Processing that is already in progress on the date of its application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of this regulation you must comply with this regulation within two
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

years from the entry into force of this regulation. When processing is based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent under Directive 95/46/EC, no new consent is required
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject of the data, if the way in which the consent has been given is yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with the terms of this regulation, in this case the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing to continue processing after its implementation date
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of this regulation. Commission decisions and supervisory approvals
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

principles issued under Directive 95/46/E remain in force until
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

modifying, replacing or abolishing them."
 

 

 

 

 

According to article 9 par. 4 of the GDPR "Member States may maintain
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or to impose further conditions, including restrictions, with respect to it
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of genetic data, biometric data or data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concern health."
 

 

 

Besides, with article 7 of Law 2472/1997, the issuance of a license by the Authority is foreseen
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the processing of sensitive personal data according to this law as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and for the creation and operation of a relevant archive.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. The General Data Protection Regulation, which is implemented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from 25.05.2018, abolished the general obligation to disclose our processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data to the supervisory authorities provided for by Guide a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

95/46/EC. The authorization is provided to the member states, in the framework of the more specialized ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of national regulations that are allowed to be introduced for the implementation of the GDPR, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

maintain or impose further conditions, including limitations, only
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the processing of genetic data, biometric data or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data concerning health a.
  

 

 

 

 

It follows from the above provisions of the GDPR that it is provided to the national
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legislature the power to enact or maintain already provided for further conditions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the processing of data that are limitedly mentioned in par. 4 of the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 thereof, these conditions may also include the obligation to receive
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

permission from the Authority for the processing of these data. The fluency, however,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this, both for the establishment of new and for the maintenance of existing conditions, must
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercise within the framework of the system introduced by the GDPR, in accordance with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no licensing is provided for the above processing a. Following these,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and since the national law has not been issued, the one according to the above will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

could foresee, among other things, the issuance of a license as a condition thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing the categories of data referred to in article 9 par. 4 of the GDPR,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the provisions of article 7 of Law 2472/1997, as far as they provide for the license of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority no longer apply from 25.05.2018 as opposed to the GDPR, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has direct application, given, indeed, that the categories of data, such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refers to this article of the national law, they are not the same as those mentioned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in article 9 par. 4 of the GDPR. Therefore, the Authority no longer has jurisdiction
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

granting licenses for the processing and for the logging and operation of documents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on Article 7 of Law 2472/1997.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

This also applies to the applications that are pending with the Authority on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above date, the acceptance of which would, after all, be useless, since the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authorization from the Authority was not a condition of our processing.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

 

The Authority unanimously decides that
 

 

 

 

 
   

1. It no longer has the authority to grant the licenses of article 7 of the law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2472/1997.

 

2. Any pending applications will not be considered and will be placed on file.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The president
 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 
 
 
 

 Constantinos Menoudakos
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5

