International Working Group 
on Data Protection 
in Telecommunications 

711.390.1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 October 2018 

P R E S S  R E L E A S E 

 

Working Paper on Connected Vehicles released   

 
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (so-called Berlin 
Group), chaired by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja 
Smoltczyk, has adopted the Working Paper on Connected Vehicles at its 63rd meeting in Buda-
pest (Hungary) on 9 and 10 April 2018. 
 
As vehicles become increasingly connected to the Internet and to other vehicles, more and more 
personal data will be collected and processed by the vehicles. Relevant types of data collected by 
the vehicle’s sensors may concern driver behaviour or information about other people inside or out-
side the vehicle. This data may be processed by the vehicle’s IT systems, or when other personal 
devices connect to it. The advent of autonomous vehicles will raise additional privacy issues, as their 
functioning will require the collection and use of significant amounts of data.  
 
The Working Paper on Connected Vehicles analyzes the different types of data that can be collect-
ed, generated, transmitted, processed or retained by connected vehicles and identifies the privacy 
risks involved in these processes. The Working Paper provides recommendations for manufacturers, 
third party service providers, standardization bodies, public authorities and rule makers as well as for 
drivers of connected vehicles on how to effectively avert these risks. 
 
The Working Paper is available for download at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org   
 
 
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (“Berlin Group”) 
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin 
Group”) includes representatives from Data Protection Authorities and international organisations dealing with 
privacy matters from all over the world. It was founded in 1983 in the framework of the International Confer-
ence of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners at the initiative of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Pro-
tection, who has since then been chairing the Group. The Group has adopted numerous recommendations 
(“Common Positions” and “Working Papers”) aimed at improving the protection of privacy in telecommunica-
tions. Since the beginning of the 90s the Group has focused particularly on the protection of privacy on the 
Internet. 
 
More information about the Work of the Group and the documents adopted by the Group are available for 
download on the website of the Group at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org.   
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

Secretariat 
Berliner Beauftragte für 
Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit 
Friedrichstr. 219 
D-10969 Berlin 
Phone   +49 / 30 / 13889 0 
Fax:      +49 / 30 / 215 5050 
 

E-Mail: 
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de 
 
Internet: 
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org 

 

The Working Group has been initiated 
by Data Protection Commissioners 
from different countries in order 
to improve privacy and data protection 
in telecommunications and media 

         