 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

International Working Group
on Data Protection
in Telecommunications

711.390.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

October 4, 2018

PRESS RELEASE

 

Berlin Group publishes working paper on connected vehicles

 
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (so-called Berlin Group),
headed by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk
published the working paper at its 63rd meeting on April 9th and 10th, 2018 in Budapest (Hungary).
“Connected Vehicles” adopted.
 
Vehicles are increasingly networked with the Internet and collect a wide variety of data in the process
Personal data, such as driver behavior or information
about people who are inside or outside the vehicle. Such data can be both
by the vehicle's own IT system or by other technical devices that are attached to the vehicle
to be bound, to be raised. Autonomous vehicles require a particularly large amount of data, which is why
its further development will bring further data protection issues with it in the future.
 
In the working paper on networked vehicles, the Berlin Group analyzes the various data
types that are collected, generated, transmitted and used in connection with networked vehicles
be saved. It shows the risks to privacy associated with the different pro-
are connected. In addition, the working paper makes recommendations for all relevant stakeholders
how these risks can be counteracted effectively.
 
The working paper is available at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org.
 
 
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (“Berlin Group”)
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications
Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications – IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin Group”) consists of
Representatives of data protection authorities and organizations from around the world dealing with the
deal with privacy protection. The working group was established in 1983 as part of the International Data
protection conference founded on the initiative of the Berlin state data protection authority, which has been chairing it ever since
leads. Since its inception, the working group has made a large number of recommendations ("Common Positions"
and "working papers") to improve privacy protection in telecommunications
de. Since the early 1990s, the group has been particularly concerned with the protection of privacy
vatsphere on the internet.
 
More information about the working group and the documents adopted by the group are available at
available on the website of the working group: http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org.
 
 

secretariat
Berlin representative for
Privacy and Freedom of Information
Friedrichstr. 219
D-10969 Berlin
Telephone +49 / 30 / 13889 0
Fax: +49 / 30 / 215 5050
 

E-mail:
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
Internet:
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org

 

The Working Group has been initiated
by Data Protection Commissioners
from different countries in order
to improve privacy and data protection
in telecommunications and media

         