
As part of the EU project ARC, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, in cooperation with the Croatian Association of Employers, on Monday, March 14, organized a free online workshop for craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs entitled "Technical and organizational measures for the protection of personal data". . The workshop was also joined by guest lecturers Ph.D. Natalija Parlov Una (TÜV NORD) and William Bello (IAPP KnowledgeNet chapter Croatia).
In his welcoming speech, Director Zdravko Vukić pointed out that the Agency organizes such workshops to help data processors to be informed about their obligations, coordinate operations and thus avoid situations in which they may find themselves in the role of violators of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The General Regulation on Data Protection, specifically Articles 24, 25 and 35, prescribes that all data processors, who dispose of the personal data of individuals, are obliged to take all appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to adequately protect the personal data of their employees, clients or user or respondent and minimize the risk of personal data violations and misuse. Namely, data controllers who do not take appropriate measures are exposed to serious consequences: reputational risk and high fines.
Therefore, in order to help the target group of the ARC project, i.e. craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, in the application of appropriate measures for the protection of personal data, the Agency officials explained to the participants what the technical and organizational measures prescribed by the Regulation are and how to successfully implement them in their business.
William Bello, as a guest lecturer, spoke about appropriate technical and organizational measures and emphasized that every organization must ensure that the use of information technologies is exempted to the greatest extent possible from unwanted consequences for the rights and freedoms of individuals whose personal data it processes. dr. sc. Natalija Parlov Una presented ISO/IEC 27001 and ISO/IEC 27701 – international standards of organizational and technical measures in data protection. At the same time, she explained to the workshop participants which are the most common areas of information security risks and how to solve them.
This workshop is a continuation of the activities within the European project ARC, in which trainings have been held for over 5,000 entrepreneurs and data protection officers. Considering that craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, unlike large ones, usually do not have enough financial and human resources needed to comply with data protection regulations, the Agency provides full support to bring their business into compliance with the GDPR. You can find more about the project here.
Given the interest, the Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Association of Employers, will hold live workshops for entrepreneurs throughout Croatia in the next three months. The following workshops:
29.03. Tuesday, Slavonski Brod. Place: Great City Hall of Brod-Posavina County, Petra Krešimir IV 1, Slavonski Brod
30.03. Wednesday, Vukovar. Place: Business and Innovation Center BIC Vukovar, Gospodarska zona 15, Vukovar
31.03. Thursday, Osijek. Place: Business Incubator and Accelerator Antunovac, Gospodarska zona Antunovac 23, Antunovac
01.04. Friday, Virovitica. Place: Business Incubator Virovitica, Business Zone II 18, Virovitica
13.04. Wednesday, Rijeka.
More details coming soon.













































