1/74

 File No.: PS/00196/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), dated ***DATE.1,
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed, among others, against EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL, S.L. with
NIF B86509254 (hereinafter, the claimed party or elDiario.es). The reasons on which
The claim is based on the following:

The complaining party reports that several media outlets published on their
websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a rape
multiple, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was
very mediatic The complaining party provides the links to the news published in the
websites of the claimed media, the one relating to the claimed party being:

***URL.1
On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the complaining party is received
stating that he has been able to verify that there are means that have eliminated that
information, although it accompanies publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it is still available.

SECOND: On ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, being aware of the
following extremes:

During the investigation actions, publications were found where it was possible to
hear the victim's voice without distortion. For all data controllers,
issued, with dates of ***DATE.4 and ***DATE.5, precautionary measure of urgent withdrawal
of content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that it would be
unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this content was accessible.

These extremes could be verified in relation to EL DIARIO DE PRENSA
DIGITAL, S.L. with NIF B86509254:
***URL.1

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/74

On April 5, 2022, this Agency received a letter sent by this
entity stating that they have immediately withdrawn the video,
making it impossible to access or dispose of it by third parties.

FOURTH: On May 6, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, classified as
in article 83.5 a) of the GDPR.

The aforementioned start-up agreement, in accordance with the rules established in the LPACAP, was
notified to the claimed party on May 9, 2022.

FIFTH: With the registration date of May 20, 2022, the party
The defendant requested a copy of the file, as well as suspension of the deadlines for the
submission of pleadings.

On May 20, 2022, the file was forwarded to the defendant, granting the
At the same time, extension of the term to present allegations.

SIXTH: With the registration date of May 23, 2022, the claimed party
requested transfer of the complete administrative file and that it be granted
extension of term for the presentation of pleadings.

In a letter dated May 26, sent on May 30, 2022, it was sent to the
claimed party the proof of entry registration corresponding to the letter
submitted by the complaining party on ***DATE.1 and a new extension was granted
deadline for filing claims. As for the rest of the documentation
sent, it was indicated that the documentation sent allowed to know the evidence,
that, with respect to that part, provided the AEPD.

SEVENTH: The claimed party submitted a pleadings brief on May 27,
2022. In said letter, Diario.es begins by raising a question of nature
formal:

“(…). On May 19, 2022, access to the file was requested and by resolution
tion of May 20 of the current year we are given a partial transfer of the file, extended
extending the term to make allegations in 5 more days from the day after the
expiration of the first period of allegations. It is expressly stated that
Having requested on May 23, 2022 new access to the complete file,
said request has not been attended to.”
The rest of the allegations made are summarized below:
1. The voice as personal data

The brief of allegations includes several references to the voice as information of
personal character:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/74

"The debate should not be discussed or focused on whether there has been identification of the victim
through some plane of his face or figure, nor should the diffusion
of the personal data of the victim such as name and surname, since they are
circumstances that simply did not occur. Regarding the reference
of the victim's place of residence, it is provided by the parents themselves in
interview granted to the television program in the year XXXX, which was indicated in the
previous allegation.

The controversial fact is whether the diffusion of the victim's voice makes it
identifiable (…).”

The statement of allegations also states:

“(…). The debate must focus on the protection of the voice, as personal data
personnel, according to its definition in article 4.1 of the General Regulation of
Data Protection (hereinafter, GDPR) and if the treatment carried out by means of
communication, eldiario.es, was correct, taking into account the right to
information that is exercised, in its double aspect (freedom of action and the right
of all citizens to receive truthful information, as a development of public opinion
free)."

In relation to the voice and the weighting carried out by the Court, the following stand out:

"4. In this balancing exercise, the Tribunal, in full exercise of its function
jurisdiction, has considered not imposing further limitations on the dissemination of this
judicial information, that is, the court has considered it appropriate not to distort the voice
of the victim in his statement.”

Likewise, the brief of allegations indicates:

"In another order of things, the Agreement itself that initiates this procedure
sanctioner collects in its first fact that the diffusion of the voice served to "illustrate
a piece of news related to the holding of the trial in a case that was highly covered by the media”. (he
highlighted is ours).”

On the other hand, in the pleadings brief, after referring to the interview
granted by the parents of the victim in "***PROGRAM.1", it is stated:

"So, with these data, provided by the family itself, in the town of
***LOCATION.1, (...), and the convulsion generated in the population by these events
occurred, the victim could be identifiable by known people or by their closest environment
nearby.

 This is not the case for any reader of the media outlet eldiario.es or
any viewer of the television network who is not from the closest environment
of the victim, since the voice of the victim or that of the parents are not elements
enough to make it identifiable, since there is no doubt that the voice did not
it is as determining an element as a facial feature could be.” (underlining is
our).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/74

The first section of the pleadings brief concludes:

"Consequently, and for all the reasons cited in this allegation, the
inclusion of the voice in the journalistic publication has been the subject of treatment
complying with the obligations set forth in the GDPR, and in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 6 of the aforementioned law, so there should not be any reproach to his actions,
especially considering that it is the judicial body itself that gives direct access to
judicial information, having carried out the previous weighting on the content
that can spread. Thus, the court considered that the only limitation was that
the institutional signal will be oriented to the ceiling of the room.”

 ***CCAA.1
2. The data controller is the Superior Court of Justice of
 
 :

 

"(...) there is no doubt that the data controller is none other than the Court
Superior Justice of ***CCAA.1 who is the one who distributed the images object of the
present procedure for its disclosure and, therefore, it will be before said body
jurisdiction before whom any type of responsibility must be sought if the
there was or, failing that, whose disclosure decision, without further limitations, should have been
contested in due time and form.

In short, in the case at hand, we can extract the following facts and
conclusions:

1. The image and sound provided by the Communication Office was institutional.

 2.The camera points to the ceiling, in such a way that there is no shot of those who
are involved in the statement.

3. The Court has previously weighed the right to privacy of the
victim and the right to information, hence the camera records the ceiling.

4. In this balancing exercise, the Tribunal, in full exercise of its function
jurisdiction, has considered not imposing further limitations on the dissemination of this
judicial information, that is, the court has considered it appropriate not to distort the voice
of the victim in his statement.

5. Given that the court has carried out the weighting between the merited rights, without
consider that there are more limitations to the dissemination of information than the
recording of the statement with a plan of the ceiling of the Chamber, there is no resolution
court under Article 6 of the GDPR.

6. This absence of major limitations is evident in the decision of the
Tribunal: it has been carried out taking into account that it was a hearing or a judgment of great
public repercussion and that the only recording of the hearing was the institutional one, that is,
there was no other media recording the trial and only the recording of the Court exists.

Consequently, responsibility for excessive treatment cannot be attributed to the environment.
eldiario.es, by maintaining the real voice of the victim in the video disclosed, because in all
case the media has respected the principles contained in article 5
of the GDPR, also understanding that it is of vital importance what has been the basis

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/74

law legitimizing the treatment. As we say, by virtue of the provisions of the
Article 6 e) and f), there has been express authorization from the Court, who
consideration of the victim's right to privacy and the right to information, has
The dissemination of this specific judicial action was considered lawful and timely, despite the
public repercussion of the matter, without further limitations.”

In addition, the pleadings brief states:

“In conclusion and in relation to the diffusion carried out by EL DIARIO DE PRENSA
DIGITAL S.L, it is not up to this or any other means of communication to make
no limitation on the dissemination of what happened in the Chamber of Justice, since it is at
Court through reasoned resolution to whom corresponds to limit the right
essential to receive truthful information. Such is the case, that as can be seen in the
video file released to the media by the state news agency EFE, and which
among others published EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL S.L, the camera offers a shot
from the ceiling of the hearing room, which shows that the Court, whom in the
exercise of the judicial function corresponds to carry out the weighting of
fundamental rights, has already done so, considering that the image of the victim
that is deposing in the act of trial is the timely limitation of the
right to information, with nothing more to restrict the public act that
constitutes the Oral Trial.”

Finally, by way of conclusion, in the statement of allegations, it is indicated:

"In conclusion and for all the above, we remember that judicial proceedings are
public, with exceptions and the right to freedom of information is not compatible
with a general prohibition of access, therefore, in the present case, having
the judicial body carried out the opportune examination, in accordance with the requirements of the
principle of proportionality and weighting, considering that it should not limit
access to the information of this judicial action in any other way, so it is not
there should be some reproach regarding the action carried out by means of
communication."

3. Legality of the treatment carried out by elDiario.es.

The statement of allegations analyzes the content of article 6 of the GDPR and indicates:

"In the case at hand, the requirements contained in sections e) and
f) of article 6 of the GDPR, in such a way that the treatment carried out is lawful, without
the Agency to which we are addressing has observed these prescriptions.”

In another section of said letter it is highlighted:

"On the one hand, in what refers to the" fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public" referred to in the first of these assumptions included in the aforementioned
article, it is evident that the exercise of the right to information (20 CE), in
relation to the principle of publicity of Justice, constitutes an activity, in addition
constitutionally protected, carried out in the general public interest.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/74

The same should be said with regard to the concurrence of the assumption included in the
following section of the same article, (…)”

"In this sense, as has been indicated throughout this document, the right to
information, is a fundamental right included in article 20.1.d) EC, which is
is linked to the principle of publicity of justice (120 CE) that establishes the
publicity of judicial proceedings, with the exceptions provided by the laws of
procedure.

The link between freedom of information and the principle of publicity was
established, from the outset, by constitutional jurisprudence (SSTC
30/1982 and 13/1985), considering that procedural publicity is immediately
linked to the subjective positions of citizens, who have the status of rights
Fundamentals: the right to a public process of article 24.2 of the Constitution and
the right to freely receive information. The right to a public trial is a
an unavoidable requirement in democratic systems since publicity allows
that the judicial activity can be known by the citizens, thus, both the Power
Judiciary and the media play a key role in the
Spanish constitutional model based on its conformation as a State
democratic rule of law, since effective control cannot be carried out by the
public opinion of the Judiciary without publicity of the procedure.

Based on the foregoing, it is more than evident that the treatment of the data by
of EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL S.L is lawful in light of article 6 of the GDPR.”

4. Freedom of information and right to privacy and right to data protection
of a personal nature

At the beginning of the statement of allegations it is stated:

"In order to address the problem at hand, it is necessary to indicate that we are
Faced with a conflict between two fundamental rights, between the right to privacy and the
right to freedom of information and expression.”

In a section of the pleadings, freedom of information is analyzed in
relation to the right to privacy and the right to one's own image, concluding:

"(...) the interference in the fundamental rights of third parties resulting from the exercise
of the freedom of information will be legitimate to the extent that the affectation of said
rights is adequate, necessary and proportionate for the realization
constitutional right to freedom of information.”

Subsequently, it examines the limits of said rights and highlights:

"In the present case, it is unquestionable that the information transmitted is
truthful and has obvious public significance. Likewise, it is unquestionable that the
informative treatment by the media eldiario.es has been absolutely
respectful towards the victim, by not providing any personal information about the victim or exceeding
the informative end in its diffusion. The disclosure of the voice has been allowed by the
judicial body, without imposing further limitations, and it is also necessary to take into account

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/74

account that the video has been disseminated by a multitude of media with
same treatment. In short, if the victim is identifiable, it will be due to the
concurrence of other circumstances, such as the interview granted by the
own parents, in which their voice is equally recognizable, having
given their express consent for this purpose or for the data that in said
interview are offered voluntarily, such as the place of residence of your daughter.”

The pleadings document analyzes the informative interest and public relevance of
information:

“The controversial fact is whether the diffusion of the victim's voice makes it
identifiable and if the treatment carried out by the communication medium is lawful.
In this sense, we reiterate once again that there should be no discussion at this
in this regard, since there is no limitation agreed in this regard by the
judicial body, not being able to question the informative interest and the
public relevance of this information.”

It also indicates:

“Indeed, the judicial process that gives rise to numerous publications
reports on the case was enormously mediatic.

In recent years, this type of crime against sexual freedom has been gaining
visibility, a presence that became very necessary, in which the media
communication have collaborated, in their function of disseminating information and
formation of public opinion, as it is a crime deserving of a high
social reproach.

In the case at hand, and due to this need for visibility of the crime, they have been
multiple journalistic publications on the criminal case in question. In them, it
has disclosed, for example, the age of the victim or the town where the victim resides
victim, in a social context in which sexual assaults practiced in groups
have become recurring offences, which have been discussed in the
majority of the media, and several members have even referred to it
of the government. (…)”

"(...), the victim's parents even granted a personal interview in
television, in “***PROGRAM.1”, in ***CHANNEL.1. This television space is the leader of
audience in “day time” format.

“In this interview given on ***DATE.6 two years before publication
of the video of the trial by eldiario.es, the parents hide their faces, which appear
shadowed, although the voice of both the victim's father and mother is
absolutely recognizable. This information removes them from anonymity automatically.
Parents have given their consent to broadcast their voice without distorting,
offering in said interview other relevant data for the purposes of data protection,
What is the locality - ***LOCATION.1- where his own daughter and victim of the crime reside?
crime against sexual freedom.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/74

In the pleadings, he questions that the start-up agreement may consider
excessive treatment of the victim's voice:

(...) as we have seen, the treatment carried out is lawful in accordance with those established by
the GDPR itself, despite the argument that "they were excessive for the purpose for
which they were treated”. This criterion, contrary to that established by our Court
Constitutional in STC 57/2004, of April 19, already mentioned.

It is evident, in view of its jurisprudence, that it is the Constitutional Court
who does not make any distinction between the written press and the audiovisual media,
who are allowed to capture images and sound during the sessions of the
judgment.

On the same idea, the same STC 57/2004, of April 19, deepens when
states that the right to information, in relation to audiovisual media,
that both the capture and the dissemination by audiovisual media of image and sound
in the act of the Oral Trial are constitutionally protected ex article
20.1 d) CE, forming part of the same fundamental right.”

“It should be remembered that the fundamental right to information is a double right.
slope: it is the means of communication that exercises it and conveys it to the
citizens and public opinion, who are the true holders of these rights in
for the proper functioning of a democratic system.

Taking all of the above into account, it is true that as we said and thus expresses
the Constitutional Court, there are a series of dangers and circumstances that can
limit access to public judicial hearings by the media and
even if they are held behind closed doors, although whenever this happens, at
If it is a limitation of the right to information, it must be done through
a reasoned resolution in which the weighting of rights is argued
carried out and what or what are the reasons, risks or rights to be protected.

It is already a consolidated question that the Chambers of Justice, in the exercise of their
jurisdictional power, who must carry out this weighting of rights and
criteria."

"In the case at hand, the judicial body, in accordance with the requirements of the principle
of proportionality and balancing, decided not to limit the exercise of the freedom of
information, distorting, for example, the voice of the victim in his statement in the
act of oral trial.

In conclusion and in relation to the diffusion carried out by EL DIARIO DE PRENSA
DIGITAL S.L, it is not up to this or any other means of communication to make
no limitation on the dissemination of what happened in the Chamber of Justice, since it is at
Court through reasoned resolution to whom corresponds to limit the right
essential to receive truthful information. Such is the case, that as can be seen in the
video file released to the media by the state news agency EFE, and which
among others published EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL S.L, the camera offers a shot
from the ceiling of the hearing room, which shows that the Court, whom in the
exercise of the judicial function corresponds to carry out the weighting of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/74

fundamental rights, has already done so, considering that the image of the victim
that is deposing in the act of trial is the timely limitation of the
right to information, with nothing more to restrict the public act that
constitutes the Oral Trial.

It is not appropriate nor is it for EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL S.L to carry out
weighting of rights and limit the right to information whose owner is the
general public."

5. Administrative cooperation

"The good faith of the company is duly accredited as long as in the same
day that it receives the agreement to adopt a provisional measure, it proceeds to
the immediate withdrawal of the video, as well as to respond to that Agency,
placing himself at the entire disposal of the same.”

6. Violation of the principle of equality:

“(…). All discrimination violates the principle of equality: inequality devoid of
an objective and reasonable justification constitutes discrimination contrary to
Right.

Therefore, given the consideration regarding the right to information and its
limitations in the act of the Oral Trial that has been carried out by the supreme interpreter of the
constitutional text, as well as the consideration of legality of treatment
established in the GDPR itself in article 6, sections e) and f) when it is
carried out for the satisfaction of legitimate interests by the data controller,
It is not appropriate to impose any sanction on EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL S.L for the
fulfillment of its constitutional function as a vehicle of the right to information.

In short, there has been on the part of EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL, S.L., the
intention to comply at all times with the regulatory framework applicable to the
present case and it is from this perspective that we understand that they should
interpret the events that occurred.

For this reason, it seems to us clearly unfair, and that it violates the principle of equality, for
how much the company, even complying with the data protection guidelines, is seen
obliged to defend itself against a possible sanction, at least disproportionate,
understanding that the fairest measure is to render this agreement null and void.
initiation of disciplinary proceedings and the present sanction proposal.”

7. Violation of the principles of typicity and proportionality:

(...), we understand that the proposed sanction would be inadmissible, since it would violate
the principle of criminality because the sanction could never be classified as very serious,
but as light, since we understand that, taking into account the criteria followed, in order to
to determine any possible sanction (that is, degree of culpability or the existence
intentionality, continuity or persistence in the infringing conduct, nature of
the damages caused and recidivism, by commission of more than one infraction of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/74

of the same nature, when it has been so declared by final resolution in the
administration), in the case at hand:

1. There has been no intentionality in the action, since as has been
accredited at all times, it has been intended to comply in the strictest manner
possible with a respectful informative treatment, without generating a headline that could
be sensationalized The media has limited itself to disseminating material
information provided by the judicial body itself, after analyzing and weighing the
limitations, based on the principle of proportionality.

2. The outlet proceeded to immediately remove the video, on the same day that the
AEPD requested it as a precautionary measure, also providing all possible collaboration
to that agency.

3. No harm has been caused. It must be taken into account that the victim of the
crime, in the event that his identity may have been exposed, consented to
that his parents gave an interview on television, offering data such as the
place of residence of the same, and agreed to publish their own voices.

The proportionality between the administrative activity and the public purpose to which it must
responding assumes that the means used correspond to the results, without
that these exceed public needs, adopting the intervention technique
less aggressive.

The fact of having an express authorization from the Court itself that allows the
dissemination of the video that is the subject of this file is sufficient reason to
annul the agreement to initiate disciplinary proceedings and the proposal
of sanction.

This principle of proportionality operates in accordance with article 25 of the Constitution,
forcing the existence of a norm that typifies the sanctions.”

"In the present case, the damage entailed by the sanction proposal for this party
interested party is, to a greater extent, superior and more burdensome than the public interest to
whose purpose the public administration attends, above all. Damage that, with due
respects, we request that you be valued again by that Excmo. organism, after
an improvement and subsequent null effect of the sanction proposal received.

We understand that in the case at hand, the sanction is neither adjusted nor to the
alleged seriousness of the alleged act constituting an infringement is neither suitable nor
it is necessary.”

He then questions whether the infringement is considered very serious, as well as the
concurrence of different aggravating circumstances.

The brief of allegations concludes with the request for the taking of evidence:

"What is the interest of whoever signs the opening of a probationary period in order to
demonstrate the non-existence of acts carried out by eldiario.es that constitute

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/74

any administrative infraction, for the proof of the same, the undersigned tries to
use the following evidence:

- A communication is issued to the Press Office of ***COURT.1, in relation to the oral trial
followed before the *** COURT.2 to report on whether in the matter known as
case of the so-called "***CASE.1", as it is a particularly vulnerable victim,
due to the nature of the crime, if the signal that they applied – and that they apply in situations
similar, was the institutional. If, for this reason, they did not issue an order on limitations to the
there is no restriction on public access, but only a limitation of dissemination
from image.

  - A letter is issued to ***COMPANY.1, with address at ***ADDRESS.1, so that
provide the full video of the interview with the victim's parents last day in
date ***DATE.6 in ***PROGRAM.1: ***URL.2.”

EIGHTH: On October 6, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:

"FIRST: That by the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
penalize EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL, S.L. with NIF B86509254, for one
infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the GDPR, with
a fine of €50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

SECOND: That by the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
confirm the following provisional measures imposed on EL DIARIO DE PRENSA
DIGITAL, S.L. with NIF B86509254:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents, in such a way that it makes it impossible to access and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.”

NINTH: Notification of the proposed resolution in accordance with the established norms
in the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a written statement of allegations to the proposal of
resolution on October 21, 2022.

Said letter is divided into the following sections:

1. Regarding the lack of access to the file.

2. In relation to the protection of the voice as personal data.

3. About the responsibility of the treatment.

4. On the necessary balance of the right to data protection with the

Right to information.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/74

5. On the violation of the principle of equality.

6. On the violation of the principles of proportionality and classification of the

infringement.

7. Violation of effective judicial protection due to lack of motivation in relation to

the inadmissibility of the test.

1) Regarding the lack of access to the file
 :

 

ElDiario.es highlights that they have been given partial transfer of the file and that, despite
having requested new access to the complete file, said request has not been
attended.

In his opinion, the motion for a resolution refers to the arguments contained
in the brief of May 20, 2022, by which access to the file was granted
without detailing the reasons for the protection of public safety, of
criminal, administrative or disciplinary investigation, nor of economic and
commercial or professional secret or intellectual and industrial property.

The claimed party emphasizes that it has not had access to the briefs presented by the
claimant on dates ***DATE.1 and ***DATE.2, of which they have not been sent
copy, limiting the AEPD to sending the receipt of the presentation. ElDiario.es
emphasizes that the content and grounds alleged in said writings result from
undeniable importance for said means of communication, in order to exercise their right
defense with full guarantees.

Next, it cites articles 53 and 70.2 of the Administrative Procedure Law.

The defendant affirms that the fact of not having been able to access the file
complete, without having justified said deprivation, supposes a flagrant defenselessness and
may, in case of non-compliance or non-satisfaction, be grounds for sanction
administrative or even judicial for the entity that denies your access. manifests his
strangeness, having been deprived of such an elementary right, without the slightest
duly reasoned justification.

It considers that the reference to article 5.1.b) of the GDPR formulated by the AEPD to
Denying access to the entire file is inappropriate. Add that bliss
interpretation contravenes the provisions of article 41.2 second paragraph of the Charter
of the Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which must be related
with those provided for in articles 12.2, 15 and 16 of said Charter.

In the opinion of said means of communication, the restriction of access to the integrity
of the file affects the right of defense in its material aspect, referring to the
Judgment of the CJUE (Sixth Chamber) of June 4, 2020, relapsed in case C-
430/19.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/74

2) In relation to the protection of the voice as personal data.

ElDiario.es states:

There is no doubt about the character of the voice as identifying data of the
person,(…)

“The consideration of the voice as personal data is therefore out of the question. He
debate should focus rather on the protection of the voice, as defined
in article 4.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter,
GDPR) and if the treatment carried out by the communication medium, eldiario.es, was
correct, taking into account the right to information that is exercised, in its
double aspect (freedom of action and the right of every citizen to receive
truthful information, such as the development of free public opinion).”

However, in its allegations to the resolution proposal it also indicates:

“(…). The voice, by itself and without any supplementary data, could not be a means
clearly identifying the person and thus, in any case, was considered by the person responsible
of data processing by indicating that only the ceiling of his room was filmed
jurisdiction, without further limitation. (…)”,

“When we say that the victim could be identifiable by known people or by their
closest environment we are not referring, then, to his voice (no reader of the media
communication eldiario.es or any viewer of the television network that is not
of the closest environment of the victim can recognize neither the victim nor his parents
by the voice, since the voice is not as determining an element as it could be a
facial feature), but we are referring to the data provided by their parents in said
interview, as is the locality, an extreme in no case would have been disseminated by
eldiario.es accompanying the undistorted voice of the victim or her parents. No
It is appropriate, therefore, that this Agency alleges that we admit that the victim may be
recognized for her voice, a clearly insufficient element in the media
but we stress that such identification would be completely impossible for
readers of eldiario.es or viewers of ***CANAL.1 without specifying
more information such as, unfortunately, the specific location of the victim.”

"(...) and when the victim's voice is personal data that, without being related
with other data not provided by this medium (such as its location or the voice of its
parents), cannot be considered as sufficient element for identification by
part of the readers of the medium.”

3) Both in the pleadings to the start-up agreement and in the pleadings
allegations to the proposed resolution elDiario.es affirms that the person in charge of the
 ***CCAA.1
treatment is none other than the Superior Court of Justice of
 
 
 .

In the brief of allegations to the resolution proposal, it reproduces the content of
articles 236 bis, 236 ter of the LOPJ, stating below:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/74

"And only, according to article 236 quater, "when the treatment is carried out for purposes not
jurisdictions, the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, Law
Organic 3/2018 and its development regulations", that is, it can be understood (only in
this case, far from the one at hand) that the person responsible may eventually be another
than the court on which the case falls.

It is therefore impossible to conclude as this Agency does in its Resolution Proposal
that "the data processing carried out by the judicial body and the media
communication are different, not being the subject of this procedure the first
of them”, when precisely the LOPJ explicitly determines the bodies
courts as sole controllers of personal data processing
when the purposes of said treatment, as is the case, are jurisdictional.
Understanding otherwise would mean ignoring the function that the LOPJ attributes to the organs
courts in cases such as this, outside of whose responsibility,
We understand that any legal asset to be protected must at least come together, and
adapt to the existence of the fundamental right to information.

In the case at hand, we can draw the following facts and conclusions:

1. The image and sound provided by the Communication Office was institutional, it is
that is, processed for jurisdictional purposes.

2. The camera points to the ceiling, in such a way that there is no shot of those who
are involved in the statement.

3. The Court has previously weighed the right to privacy of the
victim and the right to information, hence the camera records the ceiling.

4. In this balancing exercise, the Tribunal, in full exercise of its function
jurisdiction, has considered not imposing further limitations on the dissemination of this
judicial information, that is, the court has considered it appropriate not to distort the voice
of the victim in his statement.

 5. Given that the court has carried out the weighting between the merited rights, without
consider that there are more limitations to the dissemination of information than the
recording of the statement with a plan of the ceiling of the Chamber, there is no resolution
court under Article 6 of the GDPR.

 6. This absence of major limitations is evident in the decision of the
Tribunal: it has been carried out taking into account that it was a hearing or a judgment of great
public repercussion and that the only recording of the hearing was the institutional one, that is,
there was no other media recording the trial and only the recording of the Court exists.

Consequently, responsibility for excessive treatment cannot be attributed to the environment.
eldiario.es, by maintaining the real voice of the victim in the video disclosed, because in all
case the media has respected the principles contained in article 5
of the GDPR, also understanding that it is of vital importance, in addition to having
demonstrated the identity of the data controller (the judicial body),
determine what has been the legitimizing legal basis of the treatment.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/74

As we say, by virtue of the provisions of Article 6 e) and f), there has been
express authorization of the Court, who after considering the right to privacy
of the victim and the right to information, has considered lawful and timely the
dissemination of this specific judicial action, despite the public repercussion of the matter,
without further limitations.

But, what is more, it seems that the present sanctioning procedure is
doing is questioning the jurisdictional function and, also, the guardianship of the Court
Superior Court of Justice of ***CCAA.1 and, at the same time, attribute a disagreement
in matters of data protection as if said Court had not carried out, together with
with the aforementioned weightings, the one corresponding to data protection
of all those potentially affected. No doubt such an understanding is going too far.
far."

4) In relation to the necessary balance of the right to data protection with the
Right to information:

Indicates elDiario.es in its allegations:

“The Resolution Proposal argues that it is not about resolving the conflict between
these two fundamental rights, but to find a balance between the two, which
It is surprising given the null recognition that in this specific case is given to the
right to information, in the sense that this legal concept explains the facts
just as they happened. Therefore, we do not consider that the Motion for a Resolution
finds no "balance" between both rights, neither in its argumentation nor on
everything in his proposal for a sanction, clearly disproportionate.

Our bet is precisely for the weighting, and not for the incompatibility of
both rights or supremacy of one over the other, such as, for the purposes
practical, is derived from the text of the Resolution Proposal.”

Next, elDiario.es provides examples of constitutional jurisprudence that, in
opinion of said means of communication, try to ponder the Fundamental Right
to Freedom of Information with the rights to privacy and one's own image.

After the jurisprudential analysis, Diario.es stands out in its allegations to the Proposal
Resolution a series of conclusions.

“In the present case, it is unquestionable that:

 -The information transmitted is truthful and has obvious public significance.

-the informative treatment by the medium eldiario.es has been absolutely
respectful towards the victim, by not providing any personal information about the victim or exceeding
the informative end in its diffusion.

-The disclosure of the voice has been allowed by the judicial body, without imposing more
limitations, which already presupposes, in our opinion, full compliance with the "principle
of data minimization" required by article 5 of the General Regulation of
Data Protection within what this means of communication could guarantee in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/74

at any time, with the media and with the only information (conveniently filtered
per jurisdictional route) that he had.

-The video has been disseminated by a multitude of media with equal
treatment, or even providing data truly likely to achieve the
identification of the victim.

-If the victim is identifiable, it will be due to the concurrence of other circumstances,
such as the interview granted by the parents themselves, in which the voice of
these is equally recognizable, having given their express consent to
for this purpose or for those (...) who volunteered in said interview, such as the
your daughter's place of residence.

All these circumstances deserve to be considered for the sake of weighing
both fundamental rights, (..:)”

5) The section on the alleged violation of the principle of equality concludes
stating:

“In conclusion and in relation to the diffusion carried out by EL DIARIO DE PRENSA
DIGITIAL S.L, does not correspond to this or any other means of communication to make
no limitation on the dissemination of what happened in the Chamber of Justice, since it is at
Court through reasoned resolution to whom corresponds to limit the right
essential to receive truthful information.

Such is the case, that as can be seen in the video file broadcast to the media
by the state news agency EFE, and which, among others, published EL DIARIO DE
PRENSA DIGITAL S.L, the camera offers a plan of the courtroom ceiling, which
which shows that the Court, as responsible for data processing through
who, in the exercise of the jurisdictional function, is responsible for weighing
of fundamental rights and the minimization of data contemplated in article 5
of the GDPR, has already carried them out, estimating that the image of the victim that is
finds deposing in the act of trial is the opportune limitation of the right to
information, with nothing more to restrict about the public act that constitutes the Judgment
Oral.

It is not appropriate nor is it for EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL S.L to carry out
weighting of rights and limit the right to information whose owner is the
general public, when there is already a data controller who has
weighed said rights, by virtue of its jurisdictional powers, and has
minimized the data as required by article 5 of the GDPR.

The good faith of the company is duly accredited insofar as, as has been
said above, on the same day that it receives the adoption agreement
provisional measure proceeds to the immediate withdrawal of the video, as well as to give
response to that Agency, placing itself at its entire disposal.

It is in this context, and in the case at hand, where it is necessary to observe
duly the principle of equality, which is imposed on the public administration
by article 14 of the Spanish Constitution, as well as by community regulations:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/74

All administrative activity must be inspired by the equality of all before the
law both in a material and formal sense, without prejudice to the fact that in the performance
administration, differentiated treatments can be proposed to achieve
results that promote real equality. All discrimination violates the principle of
equality: inequality lacking an objective and reasonable justification constitutes
unlawful discrimination. Therefore, given the consideration regarding the
right to information and its limitations in the act of the Oral Trial that is coming
performing the supreme interpreter of the constitutional text, as well as the very
consideration of legality of treatment established in the GDPR itself in its article 6,
sections e) and f) when it is carried out to satisfy legitimate interests
by the person responsible for the treatment, it is not appropriate to impose any sanction on EL DIARIO
DE PRENSA DIGITAL S.L for the fulfillment of its constitutional function as
vehicle of the right to information.

There has been an intention of EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL, S.L.
comply at all times with the regulatory framework applicable to this case and it is
under this perspective through which we understand that the
events that occurred For this reason, it seems to us clearly unfair, and that it violates the
principle of equality, since the company, even complying with the guidelines of
data protection is forced to defend itself against a Resolution Proposal
penalty of 50,000 euros, at least disproportionate, understanding that the
The fairest measure is to render the same Agreement to initiate
disciplinary file and this Resolution Proposal.”

6) On the alleged violation of the principles of proportionality and classification of
the infraction.

"1. There has been no intentionality in the action, since as has been
accredited at all times, it has been intended to comply in the strictest manner
possible with a respectful informative treatment, without generating a headline that could
be sensationalized The media has limited itself to disseminating material
information provided by the judicial body itself, after analyzing and weighing the
limitations, based on the principle of proportionality.

2. Nor can negligence be invoked, as the Resolution Proposal claims,
since what has been more than proven in this procedure is
precisely the diligence of this means of communication in all its actions.
As is well known, "fault" or "negligence" is the "lack of care" when doing or not
to do something, which, attributed to the quick and diligent performance of this party following
all the instructions of this Agency, as well as limiting itself to disseminate the data already
treated, minimized and weighted by the person responsible for their treatment, it is
clearly inappropriate and unfair.

2. Precisely that the medium proceeded to immediately remove the video, in the
same day that the AEPD requested it as a precautionary measure, also providing all
possible collaboration with that Agency, is the opposite of a negligence that can be
considered very serious.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/74

3. We insist that no harm has been caused by this party. It was the fact
that the victim of the crime consented to his parents granting an interview in
television, offering data such as the place of residence of the same or their own
voices, which in any case could have clearly caused damage
impossible to impute to this means of communication. The voice, by itself and without any
supplementary data, it could not be a means of clearly identifying the person and
Thus, in any case, it was considered by the data controller when indicating
that only the roof of his jurisdictional room be filmed, with no further limitation. And not
we can forget that the broadcast recording comes solely and exclusively from the
institutional sign of the prosecuting court itself and what body the obligor already carried out
data processing exam required.

The proportionality between the administrative activity and the public purpose to which it must
responding assumes that the means used correspond to the results, without
that these exceed public needs, adopting the intervention technique
less aggressive.”

"In the present case, we reiterate that the damage caused by the proposed
penalty for this interested party is, to a greater extent, higher and more burdensome
that the public interest to which end the public administration attends, above all. Damage
that, with all due respect, we request that it be valued again by that Hon.
Agency, in pursuit of an improvement and subsequent null effect of the Proposal for
Resolution received.

The proposed sanction is not adjusted to the alleged seriousness of the alleged
fact constituting an infringement, it is neither ideal nor necessary.”

As can be seen, elDiario.es states that:

 There was no intention.



Nor can negligence be invoked.

 No damage has been caused.



The proposed sanction is not adjusted to the alleged seriousness of the
assumption of a fact constituting an infringement, it is neither suitable nor is it
necessary.

7) In relation to the alleged violation of effective judicial protection due to lack of
motivation in relation to the inadmissibility of evidence:

At the end of the pleadings to the initiation agreement, the practice of two
evidence:

"What is the interest of whoever signs the opening of a probationary period in order to
demonstrate the non-existence of acts carried out by eldiario.es that constitute
any administrative infraction, for the proof of the same, the undersigned tries to
use the following evidence:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/74

- A communication is issued to the Press Office of ***COURT.1, in relation to the oral trial
followed before the *** COURT.2 to report on whether in the matter known as
case of the so-called "***CASE.1", as it is a particularly vulnerable victim,
due to the nature of the crime, if the signal that they applied – and that they apply in situations
similar, was the institutional. If, for this reason, they did not issue an order on limitations to the
there is no restriction on public access, but only a limitation of dissemination
from image.

  - Free letter to ***COMPANY.1, ***ADDRESS.1, in order to provide the video
of the interview with the victim's parents last day on date
***DATE.6 in ***SCHEDULE.1: ***URL.2.”

In the brief of allegations to the resolution proposal, Diario.es affirms that it has
produced an alleged violation of effective judicial protection due to lack of motivation
in relation to the inadmissibility of the test. In this sense, it stands out:

"The resolution preceding this brief of allegations does not admit two pieces of evidence
interested in our statement of allegations, which, in the opinion of this party, as
already exposed in said writing, are crucial to prove the reality of the
facts alleged by this party:
(…)
Said test practice is denied by this body arguing that they are (the
highlighted is ours): “manifestly unnecessary, since their practice could not
alter the outcome of the procedure”.

Well, we consider that precisely the processing of the data carried out by
the Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.2, as well as the exposure of the victim to the
submitted to him by his own parents, are clearly essential elements of the
present procedure.

Regarding the Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.2, it must be remembered that
we are talking about the actual data controller
referred to, in accordance with articles 236 bis, 236 ter and 236 quater of the LOPJ, is the
court in the exercise of its activity. But it is that, in addition, it turns out
It is essential to know the degree of data minimization existing prior to its
diffusion through the EFE Agency, as well as accrediting the relationship of the publicity of the
trial with the fundamental right to information.

It is the present Spanish Agency for Data Protection who must weigh (and not
conflict) the right to privacy with the right to information,
for which, obviously, he needs to know all the antecedents related to the
protection (inadequate or not) of both rights and their exercise.

It should be added that, according to article 76.2 of the Administrative Procedure Law,
When the test consists of issuing a report from an administrative body,
public body or entity governed by public law, it shall be understood that it has a
mandatory".

  With regard to the video of the television program of ***COMPANY.1,
We consider it impossible to assess the background of this case without questioning

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/74

relation all the data made public by this means, put in relation to the
voice of the victim disseminated by the Court of Justice of and the EFE Agency: it is the
present Spanish Data Protection Agency who must consider whether the simple
diffusion of the voice of the victim, without being related to the data provided by
their relatives (their voice and the location of the victim), would have been a piece of information
sufficient for its identification by the readers of eldiario.es.

We understand that the resolution against which we are making allegations today suffers from
a total absence of reasoned justification for the inadmissibility of the probative material
required. We do not know the reasons why this test has not been successful.
relevant for the purposes of elucidating this proceeding, and this taking into account
note that this party has expressed the reasons why the practice of the same
It is necessary at all times, as expressed by the STS, First Chamber, of 17
July 1990; April 15, 1991 or June 27, 1991.

We consider it appropriate to mention Judgment 1/2007, due to its special relevance,
of January 15, of the Constitutional Court that pronounces in the following
terms:

 "the special responsibility of judicial bodies to ensure that they avoid
defenselessness of the defendant in the process..., because in this area the protection of
the goods in conflict acquires the greatest intensity that can disperse the
Legal system…".

In greater abundance, it is worth highlighting the fundamental right that corresponds to the
interested party before the Administration, to use the means of proof that
deem convenient for the legitimate defense of their interests, which transcends
their right of defense, so that when they are deprived of that power to use
means of evidence improperly, it can be constituted in a situation of absolute
defenselessness, therefore, in order to guarantee the right to defense of this party
administered, it is necessary that the refusal of evidence meets certain
conditions.

  Said conditions are established by the TC, in its Judgment of 24
September 2007:

“a) that their practice is relevant and decisive for the resolution of the matter;

 b) that is related to the facts that were not wanted and could not be proven
for the inadmissibility of the test; and

 c) that the test that was not admitted or not carried out would have been decisive for the
decision of the matter, so that, if it had been practiced correctly, decision
end of the process could have been different and could have had an impact
favorable to the estimation of their claims.

Only in such a case (proven that the failure of the process a quo could, perhaps, have been
another if the test had been carried out) the impairment may also be assessed
effective right of defense who, for this reason, requests protection.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/74

Likewise, it considers that the refusal of said evidence has seriously violated
his right of defense, for which reason he concludes his pleadings reiterating the
practice request for both tests.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On ***DATE.1, the claimant filed a claim with the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection denouncing that various media
communication published on their websites the audio of the statement before the judge of
a victim of a multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the celebration
of the trial in a case that was highly publicized, providing links to the news
published on the websites of the claimed media.

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the complaining party is received
stating that he has been able to verify that there are means that have eliminated that
information, although it accompanies publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it is still available.

SECOND: On ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

THIRD: The General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection, in the exercise of its
research activities, found the publication indicated below where
the victim's voice could be heard without distortion.
***URL.1
FOURTH: On April 3, 2022, the defendant was notified of the measure
precautionary date ***DATE.5 of urgent withdrawal of content or distorted from the
voice of the intervener in such a way that she could not be directly or indirectly identified,
specifically of:

***URL.1

 : On April 5, 2022, this Agency received a letter sent
FIFTH
 
by this entity informing that elDiario.es had immediately withdrawn the
video, making it impossible to access or dispose of it by third parties.

SIXTH: On April 7, 2022, it was verified that, in the link,

***URL.1
the content had been blocked. This verification being reflected in the
Diligence of April 7, 2022.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

22/74

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:

Prior to this, the first allegation raised by elDiario.es will be addressed: lack of
access to the file.

In this sense, the allegations to the initiation agreement indicate:

“(…). On May 19, 2022, access to the file was requested and by resolution
tion of May 20 of the current year we are given a partial transfer of the file, extended
extending the term to make allegations in 5 more days from the day after the
expiration of the first period of allegations. It is expressly stated that
Having requested on May 23, 2022 new access to the complete file,
said request has not been attended to.”
In response to it, it should be noted that:
On May 19, 2022, a document was filed with the General Registry of the AEPD
writing of the party claimed by the one requesting a copy of the file, as well as the
suspension of the deadlines for the presentation of the brief of allegations. On the 20th of
In May, the requested party was sent a copy of the file and was granted a
extension of the term of five days, to be computed from the day following that on which
the end of the first period of allegations.

On May 23, 2022, a second brief was received from the party claimed by the
requesting the transfer of the complete administrative file, noting that there was a lack of
for notifying that party of the documents submitted by the claimant on dates
***DATE.1 and ***DATE.2, requesting a new extension of the term for the presentation
of pleadings.

On May 26, 2022, a letter was prepared in which a response to this
second request.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/74

In the aforementioned document, the claimed party was informed that the
requested file. Likewise, it was highlighted that it had been observed that in the
brief submitted by A.A.A. on ***DATE.1 in a section the information concluded
in a few dots. In order to complete the text, proof of
entry record of said claim.

Also, it was indicated:

"3. As for the rest of the documentation submitted, the documentation sent
It allows to know the evidence, which, with respect to that part, is available by this Agency.
Consequently, he has the necessary means to be able to exercise his right to
the defense, given that he has been transferred his administrative file and all
what concerns him, while preserving access to documentation
corresponding to files in which you do not have the status of interested party.

As highlighted in his request of May 23, 2022, in the brief by which he
granted the extension of the term and sent a copy of the file dated 20
May 2022 the following was warned:

"In order that his claim does not impair the impairment of other rights
deserving, equally, of protection, in the copy of the documentation sent by
This General Subdirectorate does not include documentation that could affect
public security, the prevention, investigation and punishment of criminal offences,
administrative or disciplinary, economic and commercial interests, secrecy
professional and intellectual and industrial property.”

Likewise, the term to formulate allegations was extended again for five days,
that should be computed from the day following that on which the term ended
of allegations granted by the extension granted in writing dated May 20,
2022.

Due to a technical problem, the notification of said letter could not be made
until the morning of Monday, May 30, 2022.

On Friday, May 27, 2022, in the afternoon, it was entered in the General Registry of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection the pleadings presented by the
claimed part.

As can be seen, the brief of May 26, 2022 and the pleadings brief
crossed.

As a new term was granted, the proposed resolution was not issued during
the same, giving the defendant the opportunity, if applicable, to formulate new
allegations. Until the presentation of the brief of October 21, 2022 (brief of
allegations to the proposed resolution), no further allegations were received from
from elDiario.es.

In conclusion, the second extension of the term requested was granted and respected.
by this Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/74

In its allegations to the resolution proposal, elDiario.es once again affirms that its
request for access to the file of May 23, 2022 was not answered. Just
respond to that claim.

The ninth antecedent summarizes the allegation of said means of
communication to the proposed resolution regarding the lack of access to the file.

ElDiario.es considers that it has been deprived of access to the briefs presented by the
claimant on dates ***DATE.1 and ***DATE.2, limiting the AEPD to sending the
supporting documents for the presentation of said writings, a circumstance that, in his opinion,
It would affect his right of defense and would cause him to be flagrantly defenseless.

The claims of A.A.A. of ***DATE.1 and ***DATE.2, mentioned in the annex
of the resolution proposal, are the presentation receipts at the Registry office
of those same dates, which have been sent to elDiario.es.

In the case of the first letter, the document called "Receipt of
presentation at the Registry office” dated ***DATE.1, together with some documents
containing links to various media publications
Communication.

In response to the request for a copy of the file made by elDiario.es, said
receipt, as well as the document containing the link corresponding to a
publication of said means of communication.

Subsequently, upon receipt of the second request from elDiario.es on May 23,
2022, it was noted that in the section called "Registration Information", "Summary/
Subject:” of the letter of ***DATE.1 sent, the information concluded in a few points
suspensive In order to complete the text, you were sent the proof of registration of
entry of said claim.

Regarding the second document, this Agency received the document called "Receipt
of presentation at the Registry office" of *** DATE.2, together with a document in the
that contained tweets (none of which corresponded to elDiario.es).

In response to the request for a copy of the file made by said medium, he was
sent said receipt.

Both in the letter of May 20, 2022, by which an extension of
term and a copy of the file was sent, as in the brief of May 26, 2022,
which responded to the request for access to the complete file and
granted a new term extension, contained the following text:

"In order that his claim does not impair the impairment of other rights
deserving, equally, of protection, in the copy of the documentation sent by
This General Subdirectorate does not include documentation that could affect
public security, the prevention, investigation and punishment of criminal offences,
administrative or disciplinary, economic and commercial interests, secrecy
professional and intellectual and industrial property.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/74

The claims filed on ***DATE.1 and ***DATE.2 referred to
publications in various media.

Article 72 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations provides the following:

“Article 72. Concentration of procedures. 1. According to the principle of
administrative simplification, all the procedures that, for
their nature, admit a simultaneous impulse and their compliance is not forced
successive."

Taking into account the principles of efficiency, administrative simplification and
celerity, during the admission to processing and the previous actions of investigation,
Some procedures were carried out jointly, even when they referred to
different research subjects. However, that simultaneous impulse did not affect the
fact that for each case the facts were exclusively taken into account
related to the corresponding investigated subject. Once the performances are over
investigation, several files were opened
sanctioners.

The letters of May 20 and 26, 2022 sent the evidence to elDiario.es, which
with respect to said means of communication, the AEPD provided (reason for which
affirmed that he had the means to be able to exercise his right to defense).

The documents that were part of the
your file, preserving access to the documentation corresponding to other
files in which he did not have the status of interested party.

The reference to article 5.1 b of the GDPR appeared in the letter of May 20, 2022
by which the extension of the term requested was granted and a copy of the
file, not in the brief of May 26, 2022 that responded to the request
of access to the complete file and a new extension of the term. Consequently, the
Reference to said article was not intended to justify any denial of access to the
proceedings.

Finally, regarding the alleged defenselessness, it is necessary to bring up the Judgment
of the National Court of its Contentious-Administrative Chamber, Section 1, of
June 25, 2009 (rec. 638/2008), which states that "this Chamber has reiterated in
numerous occasions (SAN 3-8-2006, Rec. 319/2004, for all), echoing
of the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, so that the procedural defect entails
the nullity of the appealed act, it is necessary that it is not mere irregularities
procedural, but of defects that cause a situation of defenselessness of
material character, not merely formal, that is, that they have originated the
appellant a real impairment of his right of defense, causing him real damage
and cash (SSTC 155/1988, of July 22, 212/1994, of July 13 and 78/1999, of 26
of April)".

In other words, it is necessary for the interested party to see himself, in effect, in a situation of
defenselessness, it being necessary that the defenselessness be material and not merely formal
(Sentences of the Constitutional Court 90/1988, 181/1994, 314/1994, 15/1995,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/74

126/1996, 86/1997 and 118/1997, among others), which implies that the aforementioned defect has
caused real and effective damage to the defendant in his possibilities of
defense (Sentences of the Constitutional Court 43/1989, 101/1990, 6/1992 and
105/1995, among others).

And in the case examined, there has not been a decrease in the exercise of the
right of defense of the claimed party, since it has been able to allege throughout the
sanctioning procedure what has been agreed upon by his right. In fact, as
will subsequently verify, in its pleadings to the proposed resolution
has invoked, in its defense, the reference made by the claimant in his writ of
***DATE.2 regarding the fact that he observed that the media had
removed the information from their web pages.

II

In relation to the references to the voice as personal data that appear in the brief of
allegations to the initial agreement, it can be affirmed that the person's voice is information of
personal character that can, by itself, make the person to whom it is identifiable
belongs.

Indeed, the voice fits perfectly into the definition of what is data from
personal nature of article 4.1) of the GDPR:

“Personal data”: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each physical person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin, his hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of the expression, the idiolect or the intonation, are also data of
personal character considered together with the voice.

Voice is produced when air passes from the lungs through the airways.
(windpipe) and through the larynx, causing the vocal cords to vibrate, creating
Sound. Sound that becomes words thanks to the muscles that control the
soft palate, tongue and lips, without forgetting the cavity where
find these muscles, which acts as a sounding board. How can
appreciate, there are various organs involved in speech, different in each
of people, in fact, and by way of example, the vocal cords of the
Men are longer and thicker than those of women and children, which is why the
voice of those is deeper than that of these, like the sound of a double bass
It is deeper than that of a violin.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/74

But still, not all men's vocal cords are equally long, which is why
for which there are men with a more or less serious voice, as happens with those of
women, which is why there are women with more or less high-pitched voices.

In addition, we have already seen that not only the
vocal cords, but many more organs that, depending on their strength and
structure will make each voice unique and different. Therefore, we can identify the
people we know by voice without having to see them (for example, when
we have a telephone conversation with someone close to us or
we hear someone known on the radio); therefore, anyone who knows
the victim can be identified by hearing his voice.

In this sense, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency states that
"The image as well as the voice of a person is personal data, just as it will be
any information that makes it possible to determine, directly or indirectly, your identity
(…)”

In fact, the National Court Judgment dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes data of a personal nature, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
as
<<any information concerning natural persons identified or
identifiable>>, an issue that is not controversial.”

The victim's voice identifies her directly in her environment (understood in a
broad sense, encompassing the family and the social), since, as determined in
Opinion 4/2007 of the Article 29 Working Group, "it can be considered
"identified" a natural person when, within a group of people, they are
"distinguishes" from all other members of the group.

And it is clear that the voice of any person, regardless of whether their features
are more or less marked can cause it to be identified as
minimum by those who are part of the circle closest to the victim or may
meet her anyway. Let's imagine relatives, co-workers or
studies, social activities, etc. For this reason, the diffusion of the voice of the victim has
assumed the certain risk that it could have been identified by persons
who were unaware of their status as victims. Which is a particularly serious fact
in an event like the one that gives rise to the news.

That same voice may allow a larger segment of the population to identify the victim.
population if it is combined with other data, even with additional information, taking into account
to the context in question. Once again, Opinion 4/2007 clarifies that "In the cases
in that, at first glance, the available identifiers do not make it possible to single out a
particular person, that person may still be "identifiable" because that information
combined with other data (whether the data controller has
knowledge of them as otherwise) will allow that person to be distinguished from others”.

Let us also bear in mind that, in the case examined, there is a
easier to make the victim identifiable through his voice in response to the
circumstances of the event and the context in which it is made public: within the framework of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/74

a highly publicized judicial procedure, continuously followed by various
media that provide information about the victim, his
environment, the violators, and the violation suffered (which makes up information
additional).

In accordance with the provisions of recital 26 of the GDPR: "The principles of the
data protection should apply to all information relating to a natural person
identified or identifiable.(…)To determine if a natural person is identifiable,
all means should be taken into account, such as singling out, which
can reasonably be used by the controller or any other person
to directly or indirectly identify the natural person. To determine if there is
a reasonable probability that means will be used to identify a person
physics, all objective factors, such as costs and
time required for identification, taking into account both the technology
available at the time of treatment as technological advances. (…)”

Let us remember once again that the purpose of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of
Personal Data is to protect people without ambiguity and without exception.
Especially in this case, given that what has occurred is the dissemination of the story
of a victim of multiple rape.

The following was stated in the proposed resolution:

"The claimed party acknowledges that the holder of the voice can be recognized by the
people from the closest environment, a risk that must be avoided.”

In its pleadings to said proposal, elDiario.es highlights: (underlining is
our)

“When we say that the victim could be identifiable by known people or by their
closest environment we are not referring, then, to his voice (no reader of the media
communication eldiario.es or any viewer of the television network that is not
of the closest environment of the victim can recognize neither the victim nor his parents
by the voice, since the voice is not as determining an element as it could be a
facial feature), but we are referring to the data provided by their parents in said
interview, as is the locality, an extreme in no case would have been disseminated by
eldiario.es accompanying the undistorted voice of the victim or her parents. No
It is appropriate, therefore, that this Agency alleges that we admit that the victim may be
recognized for her voice, a clearly insufficient element in the media
but we stress that such identification would be completely impossible for
readers of eldiario.es or viewers of ***CANAL.1 without specifying
more information such as, unfortunately, the specific location of the victim.”

Regarding the allegation that it would be impossible for the readers of this
means of communication to identify the victim only by her voice, it can be affirmed that the
protection granted by the RGPD must not decline in attention to the greater number or
minor of persons who can recognize the victim or the considerations
subjective about its identifiability of the person responsible for the treatment, even more so in this
case, given that what has occurred is the dissemination of a story by a victim of
a multiple rape.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/74

Furthermore, we must point out that when elDiario.es published the video on YouTube
in the victim's undistorted voice, also included text beginning with
the following sentence: (emphasis added).

(…)

Consequently, said means of communication provided, together with the voice, the locality
where the victim resided.

As stated, a person can be identified by their voice. The decision of
elDiario.es to publish the voice of the victim without distorting put her at a certain risk
to be able to be identified by people who were unaware of her status as a victim.
Especially serious circumstance when the voice of a victim of
a multiple rape narrating in the first person how the rape occurred.

IV.

Regarding the allegation that the data controller was the Court
 ***CCAA.1
Superior of Justice of
 
 
 :

Beforehand, we must clarify that the disciplinary file that is being
instructing does not intend to examine or prosecute the actions of the employees of
elDiario.es in their capacity as journalism professionals, but rather tries to
determine the possible liability incurred by the party claimed as
responsible for the treatment and as a consequence of its action in the field of
Personal data protection.

In order to be able to carry out this analysis, it is essential to clarify what the
data processing that is being examined in this proceeding. To these
For purposes, the GDPR defines in its article 4.2 the processing of personal data:
“any operation or set of operations carried out on personal data or
sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not, such as
the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation,
suppression or destruction”. (underlining is ours).

The purpose of this disciplinary file is to analyze whether the claimed party has
breached the obligations contemplated in the RGPD and in the LOPDGDD, in
Specifically, due to the treatment of the victim's voice as excessive data. do not enter
within the scope of this procedure other treatments, such as the one carried out by
part of the Superior Court of Justice of ***CCAA.1.

Once the treatment to be analyzed is delimited, we must identify who is the
responsible for it.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/74

Article 4.7) of the GDPR establishes that it is ""responsible for the treatment" or
"responsible": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other
body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of processing; Yeah
the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the aims and means of the
treatment, the person responsible for the treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by law of the Union or of the States
members;".

As established in Directives 07/2020 of the European Protection Committee
of Data on the concepts of data controller and manager in the
GDPR, the concept has five main components: "the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body”, “determines”, “alone or together with
others”, “the purposes and means” and “of the treatment”.

Consequently, the data controller is the one who determines the purposes and
means of treatment.

In addition, it should be taken into account that the concept of data controller is
a broad concept, which seeks to provide effective and complete protection for
interested. This has been determined by the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the
European Union. For all we will cite the CJEU Judgment in the Google-Spain matter
of May 13, 2014, C-131/12, which considers in a broad sense the
responsible for the treatment to guarantee "an effective and complete protection of the
interested”.

As indicated, it is abundantly clear that you are responsible for the
treatment when deciding on the means and purposes of the treatment. The treatment
carried out by the media, in this case elDiario.es, is through
of which they disseminate to the general public through different means (one of them is
internet) information. It is indisputable that in this area, the defendant
holds the power to do so by having decisive influence over said
treatment. In this way, the purpose is informative and the means cover the power
from the way in which the information is distributed or made available to the public
information, even its content. The means of communication have, at the
purposes of fulfilling its purpose, once in the exercise of his journalistic work
has collected all the precise information, what information is provided and by what means,
on what terms, with what personal data.

Thus, Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of data controller and
in charge in the RGPD specify that "the person in charge of the treatment is the party that
determines why the processing is taking place (i.e. “for what purpose” or “what for”) and
how this objective will be achieved (that is, what means will be used to achieve it)”.

Despite the arguments presented by elDiario.es in its allegations to the
motion for a resolution, this Agency affirms that the court carries out
a different treatment and insists that it is not the subject of this file
sanctioning. To which it should be added that the AEPD has never questioned the
actions of the Superior Court of Justice of ***CCAA.1 nor the decisions it has
adopted, as elDiario.es intends to insinuate in its allegations.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/74

Returning to the determination of who is responsible for the treatment, the body
Judiciary provides the media with the information available in its entirety,
so that they can subsequently exercise the right to information.

As can be seen in its allegations, ElDiario.es intends to extend the scope
from judicial treatment in order to act as a kind of protective shield.
In this way, he tries to avoid assuming the consequences derived from the decisions
which he adopted once the information was in his hands.

Because when the information reaches the media, it, as
responsible for the treatment, in the exercise of its proactive responsibility, must
accredit that it has complied, that it complies and that it will comply with the regulations on
of data protection.

It is the means of communication, as responsible for the treatment of multiple data
that he knows within the exercise of his journalistic work, which he has to carry out, a
weighting prior to the publication of the information, weighting that does not appear to be
has been done in this case.

In addition to said weighting, the communication medium must carry out a
risk analysis prior to the publication of the news. In said analysis
The risks derived from the publication will be identified, trying to
prevent them from materializing or reducing said risks to a minimum. It has been
to guarantee that the news to be published respects the principles of article 5
of the GDPR, among them, the principle of data minimization.

Therefore, before proceeding to the publication of the information, which in this case
included the undistorted voice of the victim, the responding party should, in accordance with its
proactive responsibility, having carried out an analysis that took into account
account, that, if he published the information with the voice of the victim in those conditions,
the risk that she could be identified by people around her was amplified,
understood in a broad sense, as will be explained later.

At that time, the medium should have also assessed that it was a
highly publicized judicial proceeding, widely disseminated by various media
of communication that provided information about the victim, his environment, the
rapists and rape (constituting additional information). Such information
could be combined with the victim's voice, which was to be provided along with the
news, being able to facilitate their identification, as highlighted in the Opinion
4/2007 of the previously mentioned Article 29 Working Group.

In its pleadings, elDiario.es highlights:

"3. The Court has previously weighed up the right to privacy of
the victim and the right to information, hence the camera records the ceiling.

4. In this balancing exercise, the Tribunal, in full exercise of its function
jurisdiction, has considered not imposing further limitations on the dissemination of this

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/74

judicial information, that is, the court has considered it appropriate not to distort the voice
of the victim in his statement.

5. Given that the court has carried out the weighting between the merited rights, without
consider that there are more limitations to the dissemination of information than the
recording of the statement with a plan of the ceiling of the Chamber, there is no resolution
court under Article 6 of the GDPR.

6. This absence of major limitations is evident in the decision of the
Tribunal: it has been carried out taking into account that it was a hearing or a judgment of great
public repercussion and that the only recording of the hearing was the institutional one, that is,
there was no other media recording the trial and only the recording of the Court exists.

Consequently, responsibility for excessive treatment cannot be attributed to the environment.
eldiario.es, by maintaining the real voice of the victim in the video disclosed, because in all
case the media has respected the principles contained in article 5
of the GDPR, also understanding that it is of vital importance what has been the basis
law legitimizing the treatment.

  As we say, by virtue of the provisions of Article 6 e) and f), there has been
express authorization of the Court, who after considering the right to privacy
of the victim and the right to information, has considered lawful and timely the
dissemination of this specific judicial action, despite the public repercussion of the matter,
without further limitations."

In another section of the pleadings to the initiation agreement, it is indicated:

"In the case at hand, the judicial body, in accordance with the requirements of the principle
of proportionality and balancing, decided not to limit the exercise of the freedom of
information, distorting, for example, the voice of the victim in his statement in the
act of oral trial.”

If the interpretation made by the claimed party is followed, the treatment that leads to
out, the means of communication would be totally subordinated or conditioned by the
weighting, which prior and as a consequence of its own treatment,
carried out by the judicial body, it was not necessary for the media to
carry out its own weighting, this not being the case.

In addition, the line of argument put forth by the claimed party is not consistent with
with the provisions of section 6 of the 2020 Justice Communication Protocol.
Said document, prepared by the General Council of the Judiciary and updated
in the year 2020, proposes formulas so that the information related to the procedures
judicial procedures reach the citizen in an effective, clear, truthful, objective and responsible manner,
giving a leading role to the Communication Offices of the different
Courts.

In the aforementioned section 6 of the Protocol, regarding the protection of data of
personal nature, which refers to the transmission, by the Offices of
Communication, from the text of the judicial resolution to the social media.
contains the text of a warning about the responsibility of the media outlet

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/74

in the dissemination of personal data contained in the text of the judicial decision, which
It must be included in all submissions to the media:

“This communication cannot be considered as the official publication of a
public document. The communication of personal data contained in
the attached judicial resolution, not previously dissociated, is carried out in compliance
of the institutional function that article 54.3 of Regulation 1/2000, of July 26,
of the governing bodies of the courts, attributes to this Office of Communication,
for the exclusive purposes of their eventual treatment for journalistic purposes in the
terms provided for in article 85 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European Union and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of persons
physical with regard to the processing of personal data.

In any case, the provisions of the data protection regulations will apply.
of a personal nature to the treatment that the recipients of this information carry out
out of the personal data contained in the attached judicial resolution, which does not
may be transferred or communicated for purposes contrary to the law.” (underlining is
our).

As can be seen, said forecast is not compatible with the supposed extension,
intended by elDiario.es, of the limits of the treatment carried out by the body
jurisdiction in order to avoid any type of responsibility for the decisions
adopted by said means of communication.

In view of the foregoing, it can be stated:

1. The data processing carried out by the judicial body and the media
communication are different, not being the subject of this procedure the first
from them.

2. It cannot be argued that the treatment carried out by the media is
finds itself subordinated or totally conditioned by the weighting, which due to
of its own treatment, has previously been carried out by the judicial body. What he
means of communication do later with the information is not the responsibility
of the Tribunal, but of the media, as the person responsible for the
treatment.

In those cases in which there is a "chain of treatment", that is, treatment
different and subsequent processing carried out by different controllers
compliance, each person in charge will be responsible for the decisions that they adopt in their co-
responsive to your treatment. Not being able to protect himself to exempt himself from his
responsibility for what the previous data controller did, as well as not
You will be required to be responsible for the decisions adopted by the data controller.
ment that is next in the chain.
In this sense, it is worth mentioning the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union
in the Fashion ID case, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:2018:1039, which establishes in its section
74 that "On the other hand, and without prejudice to any eventual civil liability provided for in the
national law in this regard, said natural or legal person cannot be considered
responsible, within the meaning of said provision, for the previous operations or

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/74

later in the chain of treatment for which it does not determine the purposes or
the media".

The content of said Judgment is applicable to the allegations made by him-
Diario.es to try to justify its behavior based on the decisions adopted
by the Superior Court of Justice of ***CCAA.1, in the judicial field, or in the case
shocked that the video was ceded by the EFE Agency.

3. Nor can it be said that the weighting carried out, previously, by the
judicial body in the jurisdictional sphere exempts the media from having
to carry out a new weighting as controller when
I am going to publish the news.

4. Once the corresponding weighting has been carried out, in the exercise of its
proactive liability, the claimed party should have performed a risk analysis
risks prior to the publication of the news. In this way, he would have been able to detect the
need to ensure respect for the principle of data minimization
(distorting the voice or, where appropriate, including a transcript of the declaration of
the victim). In this way, it would exercise freedom of information while
guaranteed the right to the protection of personal data.

V

In relation to the legality of the treatment carried out by elDiario.es and the freedom of
information in relation to the right to privacy and the right to the protection of
personal data or on the necessary balance to data protection with
the right to information, issues that will be analyzed jointly, given
the intimate connection with which they are treated in the brief of allegations.

In said brief of allegations to the start-up agreement, elDiario.es states the following:

"In order to address the problem at hand, it is necessary to indicate that we are
Faced with a conflict between two fundamental rights, between the right to privacy and the
right to freedom of information and expression.”

This statement is not shared for two reasons:

In the first place, because the right to the protection of personal data has
own and differentiated entity with respect to the right to privacy. For this purpose, there
to bring up STC 292/2000, of November 30, which states that:

  "This fundamental right to data protection, unlike the right to
privacy of art. 18.1 C.E., with whom it shares the objective of offering an effective
constitutional protection of personal and family private life, attributes to its holder a
bundle of powers that consists mostly of the legal power to impose
third parties the performance or omission of certain behaviors whose concrete
regulation must establish the Law, the one that according to art. 18.4 C.E. should limit
the use of information technology, either developing the fundamental right to the protection of
data (art. 81.1 C.E.), or regulating its exercise (art. 53.1 C.E.). The peculiarity of
this fundamental right to data protection with respect to that right

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/74

fundamental as related as that of intimacy is, lies, then, in its different function, what
which entails, therefore, that their object and content also differ." (the
underlining is ours).

Secondly, this file is not intended to resolve a conflict between the freedom
of information and the right to the protection of personal data, but rather
try to find a balance between the two. Ensuring that the first one is deployed
without emptying content to the second.

In its allegations to the resolution proposal, elDiario.es states:

“The Resolution Proposal argues that it is not about resolving the conflict between
these two fundamental rights, but to find a balance between the two, which
It is surprising given the null recognition that in this specific case is given to the
right to information, in the sense that this legal concept explains the facts
just as they happened. Therefore, we do not consider that the Motion for a Resolution
finds no "balance" between both rights, neither in its argumentation nor on
everything in his proposal for a sanction, clearly disproportionate.

Our bet is precisely for the weighting, and not for the incompatibility of
both rights or supremacy of one over the other, such as, for the purposes
practical, is derived from the text of the Resolution Proposal.”

Next, elDiario.es provides examples of constitutional jurisprudence that, in
opinion of said means of communication, try to ponder the Fundamental Right
to Freedom of Information with the rights to privacy and one's own image.

In the first place, it has already been highlighted that the right to data protection of
personal character has its own and differentiated entity with respect to the right to
privacy (STC 292/2000, of November 30).

Secondly, said jurisprudence, for the most part, highlights the assumptions in which
that yield either the right to privacy or the right to one's own image in front of the
Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information, which prevails.

However, it is worth noting an idea reflected in said jurisprudence: (the underlining
is ours)

""in those cases in which, despite an intrusion into privacy,
such interference is revealed as necessary to achieve a constitutionally
legitimate, proportionate to achieve it and is carried out using the means
necessary to ensure a minimum affectation of the scope guaranteed by this
law, cannot be considered illegitimate" STC 156/2001, of July 2, FJ 4"

Saving the distances, since it is a sentence related to the right to
privacy, the objective of guaranteeing the minimum affectation is one of the elements
essentials that backbone the principle of data minimization and is one of the keys
of the case being analysed. In this sense, it is worth considering whether the decision
to publish the voice of the victim without distorting was adopted trying to guarantee the
minimum possible affectation to said woman.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/74

Although it is not disputed that the information published by elDiario.es was true or that
the case was reported by the media, as will be explained in the different foundations of
right of this resolution, disagrees with the rest of the conclusions drawn up by
elDiario.es, which have been reproduced in the preceding ninth section 4).

Said means of communication provided, together with the information, the voice of the victim without
distort. Said voice is a piece of information that allowed people who knew her and
were unaware that she had been the victim of a multiple rape, they could come to
identify it.

To the voice, sufficient by itself to identify the victim, the data must be added
staff of the town where the victim resided, which was published by the media
communication.

As previously stated, when elDiario.es published on YouTube the
video with the voice of the victim without distorting, also included a text that
began with the following sentence: (emphasis added).

"(...)"

In this sense, it is necessary to consider that, together with the journalistic perspective,
based on the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information, coexists the
dimension related to the protection of personal data. The latter provides
an essential scope of protection for the victim, especially in the present case, in
the one whose voice has spread narrating how the multiple rape occurred.

Although it is not possible to eliminate the serious crime of a sexual nature suffered, nor its
physical or psychological sequelae, it is possible to provide all possible protection in accordance with the
legal system trying to prevent it from being identified. thus contributing
to create an environment that is as conducive as possible so that little by little he can recover
his life.

Faced with a situation of vulnerability, in which the victim of the rape finds himself
multiple, as a consequence of the crime, it is necessary that all spheres of
existing protection deploy their effects with the greatest intensity.

On the other hand, as regards the allegation that "The video has been disseminated by
multitude of media with the same treatment, or even providing data
truly capable of obtaining the identification of the victim.”, this
Agency affirms that, in the hypothetical case that this were the case and this Agency had not
sanctioned any of the conducts, there is no room for equality in illegality (SSTC
40/1989, 21/1992, 115/1995, 144/1999, 25/2022, among others).

Continuing with the analysis of the allegations to the initiation agreement and the proposal of
resolution of elDiario.es, throughout the said means of communication
affirms on several occasions that the treatment was legitimate in accordance with the provisions of
article 6.1 e) and f). By way of example, in the allegations to the proposal of
resolution stands out:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/74

"For its part, Article 6 of the GDPR indicates that the treatment will be lawful when it is
meet certain conditions. And it establishes in its sections e) and f):

The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is fulfilled
conditions:

 e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.

 In the case at hand, the requirements contained in sections e) and
f) of article 6 of the GDPR, in such a way that the treatment carried out is lawful; (…)”

In the present case, it would not be possible to invoke as a legitimate basis for the treatment the
fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest (article 6.1 e) of the GDPR),
given that article 8.2 of the LOPDGDD provides:

"2. The processing of personal data can only be considered based on the
performance of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of powers
conferred to the person in charge, in the terms provided in article 6.1 e) of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when derived from a competence attributed by a
standard with force of law.”

In this case, said attribution has not occurred through a rule with a range of
law.

On the other hand, regarding the concurrence of the legitimate interest alleged by elDiario.es
(article 6.1 f) of the RGPD), this Agency advocates for data processing that even
based on said legal basis, is fully respectful of the principles
contemplated in article 5 of the GDPR, especially the principle of minimization
of data.

When using said legitimizing basis of the treatment, the communication medium should
having contributed the weighting carried out, between their interest in disseminating the news together with
the voice of the victim and that of the latter, in which their data was not disseminated. although not
contains said weighting.

Likewise, it is necessary to highlight that Opinion 06/2014 of the Working Group
of Article 29, on the concept of legitimate interest of the data controller
of data under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the data base
of the legitimate interest of article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/EC, transferable
fully to the current article 6.1.f) of the GDPR, indicates the following

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/74

"(...), using an adequate legal basis does not exempt the person responsible for the
data processing of its obligations under article 6 (current article 5 of the
GDPR) relating to impartiality, legality, necessity and proportionality, as well
as well as the quality of the data. For example, even data processing
based on the reason of legitimate interest (...) would not allow the collection
excessive data for a specific purpose.” (in our case, it would not allow a
excessive data processing).

Likewise, Opinion 06/2014 of the Article 29 Working Group states:

“(…). The availability of alternative methods to achieve the objectives
pursued by the data controller, with less negative impact on the
concerned, should certainly be a relevant consideration in this context.”

In the case analyzed, said alternative methods would consist of the distortion of the
voice of the victim or in the transcript of his statement, which included the account of the
multiple violation. The minimization of data, through the use of any of said
alternative methods, would make it possible to make the exercise of freedom of expression compatible
information with the right to the protection of personal data.

Let us focus our attention on a fundamental issue when carrying out the
risk analysis prior to the publication of the news.

The news has been decided to be published together with the recording of the victim's voice without
distort. Such treatment has two characteristic features:

a) On the one hand, its durability over time: once the news is published,
remains on the network, making it possible to access its content (and, in this case, the voice
of the victim) both through newspaper archives and through search engines.
search, as many times as desired and without time limitation.

b) On the other, its amplifying effect: as it is a means of communication that facilitates
information through the internet, making knowledge of that information accessible
information exponentially and ubiquitously.

In this sense, the STJUE of August 1, 2022 in case C-184/20 (OT and
Vyriausioji tarnybinės etikos komisija) exposes the amplifying effect of the internet
indicating that "102 On the other hand, it is clear that this treatment leads to those
personal data are freely accessible on the Internet by the public as a whole
general and, as a result, by a potentially unlimited number of people.

The information, including the voice of the victim, has been made available to a large
number of people, allowing access to it through any type of
electronic device that allows you to consult the Internet, twenty-four hours a day and
for unlimited time. Consequently, the risk that the victim runs of being recognized
has been increased exponentially.

Victims of sexual assaults, such as gang rape, have to face
the challenge of resuming his life once the trial is over, trying to overcome the
physical and psychological sequelae derived from the traumatic experience they have suffered.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/74

In this sense, your environment plays a decisive role. Unfortunately, even today
produce situations in which they are stigmatized despite having been the
victims, sometimes even being forced to change their place of residence.

For this reason, it is essential to treat with the greatest care any personal data that
allows you to reveal your identity, prevent you from being recognized as a victim in your environment,
understood in a broad sense.

In conclusion, it is necessary for the media to carry out a
risk analysis prior to publication. So you can detect the
need to ensure respect for the principle of data minimization (for example,
distorting the voice or substituting the audio with the victim's voice for a
statement transcript). In this way, the exercise of the
freedom of information with the right to the protection of personal data of
the victim.

SAW

Regarding the alleged violation of the principle of equality, it can be stated that said
violation has not occurred.

In relation to said principle, the defendant affirms in the pleadings
to the initiation agreement:

"For this reason, it seems to us clearly unfair, and that it violates the principle of equality, for
how much the company, even complying with the data protection guidelines, is seen
obliged to defend itself against a possible sanction, at least disproportionate,
understanding that the fairest measure is to render this agreement null and void.
initiation of disciplinary proceedings and the present sanction proposal.”

As has been stated in the previous legal grounds, it is not shared
that elDiario.es has acted in compliance with the protection guidelines
of data.

In this same sense, the initiation agreement indicated:

"However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that
the treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly mediated case, makes the victim clearly identifiable.” (underlining is
our).

Carrying out such excessive treatment constitutes a violation of article 5.1 c) of the
GDPR, typified in article 83.5 a) of the GDPR.

The proposed resolution elDiario.es alleges:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/74

"We argue in the pleadings the violation of the principle of equality,
for which we provide extensive argumentation based on numerous jurisprudence, to
to which the aforementioned Resolution Proposal only responds by alluding to the Agreement of the
initiation of this procedure, which pointed to an "excessive use" of freedom of
information, without going into assessing our considerations.”

In said section of the allegations to the resolution proposal, it is again insisted
in which the legitimating basis established in article 6.1 letters e) and f) concurs, that the
The right to information is a fundamental right linked to the principle of publicity
of justice, that the Constitutional Court makes no distinction between the press
written and audiovisual media and that the judicial body did not limit the dissemination of what
occurred in the Chamber through a resolution.

As can be seen, most of these questions have already been answered in
the legal grounds of this resolution.

In addition, this Agency does not seek any type of discrimination against
audiovisual media with respect to the written press.

It is clear that both types of media must respect the law and
comply with the regulations on the protection of personal data, if
Well, the treatments they carry out and the decisions they make regarding the
purposes and means of such processing, as well as the correct application of the
principles of the GDPR, will be adapted to the way in which they disseminate the
journalistic information.

A response has already been given to the allegations in the conclusions relating to the alleged
violation of the principle of equality, reproduced in the antecedent ninth section
5), throughout the different legal grounds of this resolution. This Agency
reiterates once again that the data controller was elDiario.es, not the Court
Superior Court of Justice of ***CCAA.1.

In this sense, it is necessary to highlight that the GDPR has brought about a trans-
fundamental in the way of understanding the right to personal data protection.
sound. One of the most relevant innovations resides in proactive responsibility,
contemplated in article 5.2 of said Regulation, which provides:
"2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility")."
Proactive liability implies that the data controller is responsible
of the data processing that it carries out. Not only must it comply with the established principles
degrees in article 5.1, but must be able to prove it. That responsibility-
implicitly implies the need to adopt decisions -determination of the ends and
means of the treatment that is going to be carried out-, as well as to be accountable for the de-
decisions adopted.
In this sense, recital 74 of the GDPR provides the following: (underlining is
our).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/74

"The responsibility of the data controller must be established for any
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In pair-
particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures and has
to be able to demonstrate the compliance of the processing activities with this
Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures should take into account
the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment as well as the risk
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons.”

Consequently, it was up to elDiario.es to carry out the weighting provided for in the
Article 6.1 f) of the GDPR, the risk analysis prior to the publication of the news, as well as
how to guarantee respect for the principle of data minimization (article 5.1 c) of the
GDPR).

VII

As far as the alleged violation of the principle of classification is concerned, the writ of
allegations to the initiation agreement states:

"(...) we understand that the proposed sanction would be inadmissible, since it would violate
the principle of criminality because the sanction could never be classified as very serious,
but as light, (...)"

The allegations to the proposed resolution include:

"(...) we consider that the proposed sanction would be clearly inappropriate, for
How much would it violate the principle of criminality because the sanction could never be qualified
as very serious, but maximally as light:"

The principles of the disciplinary procedure, regulated in Chapter III of Title
Preliminary Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector
(hereinafter, LRJSP) are the following: Principle of legality (article 25),
non-retroactivity (article 26), criminality (article 27), responsibility (article 28) and
proportionality (article 29).

Article 27 of the LRJSP, when referring to the principle of classification, states that "Only
Violations of the legal system constitute administrative infractions
foreseen as such infractions by a Law”.

The offense is perfectly typified:

On the one hand, article 83.5 section a) of the GDPR provides:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

  a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/74

On the other hand, article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD regulates as a very serious infringement
the effects of the prescription "The processing of personal data in violation of the
principles and guarantees established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.” No
there being no other infraction that could be applied to the facts, neither serious nor minor.

In relation to this last statement, elDiario.es alleges:

“The sanctioning body that applies article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD admits, that
includes a type of offense considered very serious, "there being no other
infraction that could be applied to the facts, neither serious nor minor”. Maybe it's because it's not
there is no reflection of the performance of this party in the types enumerated in said law, nor in
in a mild way, nor in a serious way, much less in a "very serious" way.

As provided in article 27 of the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector:

  "Only violations of the legal system constitute administrative infractions
provided as such infractions by a Law”.

It is not possible, therefore, to assign the character of "very serious" to conduct by the
simple fact of not finding a legal provision that can understand the
performance of the subject as a "serious" or "minor" offense.

In relation to said allegation, we reiterate what has already been indicated in the proposal for
resolution:

In the first place, we must mean that the claimed party confuses and mixes up what
regarding the classification of offences, their seriousness and their classification
for the purposes of prescription, so we are going to examine this issue.

In this regard, it should be noted that breaches of data protection
They are typified in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the GDPR. It is a typification
by referral, fully admitted by our Constitutional Court. In this
In this sense, article 71 of the LOPDGDD also makes a reference to them when
point out that "The acts and conducts referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law”.

In this sense, the Opinion of the Council of State of October 26, 2017, regarding
to the Draft Organic Law for the Protection of Personal Data,
provides that "The European Regulation does typify, even though it does so in a sense
generic, conduct constituting an infringement: in effect, sections 4, 5 and 6 of
its article 83 transcribed above contains a catalog of infractions for violation
of the precepts of the European standard that are indicated in such sections. Article 72
of the Preliminary Draft assumes, not in vain, the existence of said catalogue, when it has
that "infractions are acts and behaviors that imply a violation of the
content of sections 4, 5 and 6 of the European Regulation and of this law
organic”.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/74

The offenses established in articles 72, 73 and 74 of the LOPDGDD are only for
effects of the prescription, as stated in the beginning of each and every one of these
precepts. This need arose in our State as it does not exist in the GDPR
any reference to the statute of limitations relating to offences, given that this institute
legal is not specific to all EU Member States.

Thus, the preamble to the aforementioned organic law states that it "proceeds to
describe typical behaviors; establishing the distinction between infractions very
serious, serious and minor, taking into account the differentiation that the Regulation
general data protection law establishes when setting the amount of the sanctions. The
categorization of offenses is introduced for the sole purpose of determining the
limitation periods, having the description of typical behaviors as the only
object the enumeration of exemplary way of some of the punishable acts
which must be understood to be included within the general types established in the
European standard. The Organic Law regulates the cases of interruption of the
prescription based on the constitutional requirement of knowledge of the facts
that are imputed to the person” (emphasis added).

That is, it results from the application and interpretation of the GDPR, and not from the LOPDGDD, the
determination of the seriousness of an infringement based on a series of
conditions set forth therein. While the exemplary classification of
infractions for the purposes of the prescription of the LOPDGDD does not have virtuality in
regarding the determination of the seriousness of the infringement for the purposes of the GDPR or
regarding the imposition of the corresponding fines in its case.

This disciplinary procedure has been initiated against the claimed party, as
indicates the initiation agreement, "for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR,
typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR.” The reference that performs such an act
administrative to article 72 of the LOPDGDD is only for the purposes of prescription
of the offence.

The penalized conduct is perfectly in line with the provisions of article 72.1.a)
of the LOPDGDD for the purposes of prescription, since one of the
principles contemplated in article 5, specifically in its letter c) (principle of
minimization of data) for the reasons that they expose throughout this resolution, since
that there has been excessive processing of personal data.

Secondly, it is highlighted that there is no other infringement of the GDPR or of the
of the LOPDGDD for the sole purpose of the prescription in which there is doubt that
this conduct also fits (in fact, in its allegations elDiario.es does not mention
none other).

In conclusion, it is obligatory to qualify the effects of the prescription as very
serious case examined in accordance with the provisions of article 72.1 a), to the
perfectly fit the conduct examined with the provisions of said article.

VIII

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/74

In relation to the alleged lack of proportionality, it is necessary to make
reference to the STS, of the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of June 2, 2003
(record of cassation: 3725/1999) in whose sixth law foundation stands out:

"Proportionality, specifically pertaining to the scope of the sanction,
constitutes one of the principles that govern sanctioning Administrative Law, and
represents an instrument of control of the exercise of the sanctioning power by the
Administration within, even, the margins that, in principle, the norm indicates
applicable for such exercise. It certainly supposes a concept that is difficult to determine
a priori, but that tends to adapt the sanction, by establishing its specific graduation
within the indicated possible margins, to the seriousness of the fact constituting the
infraction, both in its aspect of illegality and guilt,
pondering as a whole the objective and subjective circumstances that make up the
presupposition of punishable fact - and, in particular, as it results from article 131.3
LRJ and PAC (currently article 29.3 of Law 40/2015, of October 1), the
intentionality or reiteration, the nature of the damages caused and the
recidivism–(SSTS July 19, 1996, February 2, 1998 and December 20,
1999, among many others).

In the present case, it should be noted that article 83.5, section a) of the GDPR, which
under the heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines"
provides the following:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

As can be seen, an administrative fine of 50,000 euros is far from the
expected upper limit.

On the one hand, the XX legal foundation of this resolution details and explains the
aggravating circumstances, which have been deemed concurrent in this case.

On the other hand, as it has been exposed in the foundations of law III and V, the
publication of the news along with the voice of the victim through the Internet has
amplified the risk that people around them, understood in a broad sense, who
were unaware of her status as a victim, could come to identify her as such, with the
difficulty that this would entail in order for him to be able to rebuild his life.

In relation to the lack of intentionality in terms of its impact on the
proportionality, the initiation agreement already indicated:

IX

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/74

"(...) Although the Agency considers that there was no intention on the part of the media outlet,
communication, the Agency concludes that it was negligent in failing to secure a
procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data in some
such sensitive circumstances, especially when on many occasions the
voice in the news so that the person speaking is not recognized.” (he
underlining is ours).

The brief of allegations has continuous references to the diligent action by
from elDiario.es.

In this sense, it must be remembered that jurisprudence repeatedly considers
that from the culpable element it follows “...that the action or omission, classified as
administratively sanctionable infraction, must be, in any case, attributable to its
author, due to intent or negligence, negligence or inexcusable ignorance” (STS of 16 and 22
April 1991). The same Court pointed out that "it is not enough... for the exculpation
in the face of typically unlawful behavior, the invocation of the absence of
guilt" but it is necessary to prove "that the diligence that was required
by those who claim its non-existence” (STS, January 23, 1998).

Connected with the degree of diligence that the data controller is obliged to
to deploy in compliance with the obligations imposed by the regulations of
data protection, the Judgment of the National Court of 17
October 2007 (rec. 63/2006), which indicates, in relation to entities whose activity
involves continuous processing of customer data, which: "(...) the Court
Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence whenever a
legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not behave with due diligence
callable. And in assessing the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined,
when the activity of the appellant is constant and abundant handling of data from
personal character must be insisted on the rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the
legal provisions in this regard.

When covering the news regarding a multiple rape trial, ElDiario.es
decided to publish the information along with the undistorted voice of the victim. Despite
that said publication implied the need to adopt decisions on the
purposes and means of treatment, said means of communication denies being
responsible for the treatment. It affirms that the only person responsible for the treatment is the
Superior Court of ***CCAA.1 who, in his opinion, corresponded to carry out the
weighting and minimizing the data as required by article 5 of the GDPR.

The proposed resolution insisted on the importance of carrying out a risk analysis
prior to the publication of the information, together with the voice of the victim without distorting,
without there being evidence that said risk analysis has been carried out.

ElDiario.es affirms that his conduct has been diligent at all times. This Agency
considers that in the present case, it is not possible to appreciate in the performance of said media
communication the rigor and exquisite care referred to in the Judgment of the
National Court of October 17, 2007, to which reference has just been made.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/74

On the other hand, trying to highlight his diligent performance, elDiario.es indicates in various
occasions in his allegations to the motion for a resolution that his diligent action
by immediately removing all audiovisual elements that included the voice of the
victim was recognized by the claimant himself. As an example, reproduce the
next paragraph:

“d) the diligent action of eldiario.es immediately removing all the elements
audiovisuals that included the voice of the victim as soon as this Agency claimed it.
This was recognized by the same claimant as it appears in the Filing Receipt in
Registry Office of *** DATE.5, directed to make a notice to Twitter, where
It is explicitly stated that "I note that there are media outlets that have eliminated that
information from their websites (I thank you for the agility, in an unfortunate matter for the
victim)"."

It should be recalled that the second brief submitted by the claimant-whose text
reproduced in his statement of allegations- has a date of ***DATE.2.

The Agreement to adopt a provisional measure addressed to elDiario.es was signed on
***DATE.5.

For its part, the letter from elDiario.es indicating that the withdrawal of the
The video is dated April 4, 2022 and was entered in the AEPD Registry on April 5, 2022.
April 2022.

Therefore, the claimant ***DATE.2 appreciates the agility of this Agency and refers
to some media that have removed the information from their web pages.
Although elDiario.es is not cited among these media.

From all of the foregoing, it can be deduced that, in the case examined, it cannot be affirmed that the
performance of elDiario.es, by publishing the information together with the voice of the victim without
distort, have been diligent.

x

In the allegations to the resolution proposal of elDiario.es, reproduced in the
antecedent ninth section 6) it is affirmed that said means of communication has not
caused any harm. It is also stated that the victim consented to his
parents to give an interview on a television program. about the latter
In particular, this Agency considers that it is a presumption that lacks
completely basic, since they could have done the interview without having the
consent of his daughter.

Returning to the statement that no prejudice has been caused, it is
reproduces a paragraph of the foundation of law III of the resolution proposal, in
which indicates the following:

“And it is clear that the voice of any person, regardless of whether their features
are more or less marked can cause it to be identified as
minimum by those who are part of the circle closest to the victim or may

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/74

meet her anyway. Let's imagine relatives, co-workers or
studies, social activities, etc. For this reason, the diffusion of the voice of the victim has
assumed the certain risk that it could have been identified by persons
who were unaware of their status as victims. Which is a particularly serious fact
in an event like the one that gives rise to the news.”

Likewise, on the basis of law XX of this resolution, when carrying out the
graduation of the fine, it is considered that a series of circumstances concur
aggravating factors, including that contemplated in article 83.2 a) of the GDPR, regarding the
nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement.

In this sense, the following is foreseen:
“

- Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR:

Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement: It is considered that the nature of the
infraction is very serious since it entails a loss of disposition and control over
the personal data of your voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and
against sexual integrity and that by disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk
that it could be recognized by third parties, with the serious damages that this
it would cause him.”

This paragraph reflects the consequences for the victim for having proceeded to the
publication of his undistorted voice along with the news:

1. On the one hand, the loss of disposition and control of such personal data
transcendental as his voice is, giving diffusion to it during a
statement in which he recounts how the multiple rape occurred.

2. On the other, the certain risk that it may be recognized by third parties.

In this sense, it is necessary to highlight that the GDPR starts from a perspective
based on the risk approach.

We must show that the management of regulatory compliance with the GDPR
includes conceiving and planning a treatment of personal data, which requires,
among other issues, to incorporate ab initio risk management in terms of
data protection within the organization by the data controller
treatment. Article 24.1 of the GDPR provides the following:

"1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing
as well as risks of varying probability and severity for the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, the data controller will apply measures
appropriate technical and organizational in order to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the
treatment is in accordance with this Regulation. These measures will be reviewed and
Will update when necessary"

In relation to this issue, recitals 74, 75 and 76 of the GDPR, which provide for the
following: (emphasis added).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/74

"(74) The responsibility of the data controller must be established for
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In
In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures
and must be able to demonstrate the compliance of the processing activities with the
this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures must have
into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing as well as the
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.”

(75) The risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, serious and
variable probability, may be due to data processing that could cause
physical, material or immaterial damages and losses, particularly in cases in which
that the treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, (...), damage to the
reputation, loss of confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy,
unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization or any other financial or
significant social; in cases in which the interested parties are deprived of their rights
and freedoms or are prevented from exercising control over your personal data; In the cases
in which the personal data processed reveal (...) data related to health or data
about sexual life, (...); in cases in which personal data of
vulnerable people, particularly children; or in cases where the treatment
involves a large amount of personal data and affects a large number of
interested.”

“(76) The likelihood and severity of the risk to the rights and freedoms of the
interested party must be determined with reference to the nature, scope, context and
the purposes of data processing. The risk should be weighed on the basis of a
objective evaluation by means of which it is determined if the operations of treatment of
data pose a risk or if the risk is high.”

In this sense, the Guide to Risk Management and Impact Assessment in Treatments
of personal data of the AEPD indicates: "Risk management is made up of a
set of actions ordered and systematized with the purpose of controlling the
possible (probability) consequences (impacts) that an activity may have on
a set of goods or elements (assets) that must be protected. … The GDPR
demands the identification, evaluation and mitigation, carried out in an objective way,
of the risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals in data processing
personal”,

Therefore, before carrying out the processing of personal data, it is
necessary to assess whether such processing may imply a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons whose personal data will be processed. Hence the
the need to carry out a risk analysis prior to the publication of
the news, which allows you to detect said risk, analyze it and adopt the measures
timely.

From this perspective, what is important is not whether the risk of recognition of the
victim has materialized or not, but whether there is a risk that someone overhearing
her undistorted voice, identify her. That is, the focus is not placed on the certainty that
someone has identified her through her voice, but in the fact that, by publishing the
news together with the undistorted voice, a certain risk situation has been generated

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/74

that someone could come to identify her, which is a particularly serious fact
in an event like the one that gives rise to the news.

In the foundations of law III, IV and V have been indicated, both possible
consequences for the victim derived from said recognition reaching
occur, such as the wide diffusion that has been given to the personal data of your voice, to the
having been published on the internet, a circumstance that amplified the risk that
could be identified.

eleventh

When grading the fine in this resolution, it is considered that there are
a series of aggravating circumstances, including that contemplated in article 83.2
a) of the GDPR, regarding the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, which has been
previously reproduced, highlighting the consequences for the victim reflected
in the same.

In its pleadings to the resolution proposal, elDiario.es states:

"It must not be forgotten that, according to article 83.2 of the GDPR, they must also
considered to assess the decision to impose an administrative fine and its
amount, apart from the intention (or not) or negligence (or not) of the infringement:

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the potential adverse effects of the infringement

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement

This party clearly believes that these weightings have not been taken into account.
account in this case, inexplicably, when the diligence of eldiario.es
has been more than accredited in order to alleviate the damages, as well as its
cooperation with the supervisory authority, and when the voice of the victim is data
personal that, without being related to other data not provided by this means
(such as its location or the voice of its parents), cannot be considered as an element
sufficient for its identification by the readers of the medium.”

On the one hand, as indicated above, elDiario.es did contribute, along with the
video, the location of the victim.

We will now examine the aforementioned circumstances:

Circumstance regulated in article 83.2 c) of the GDPR

Regarding the circumstance regulated in article 83.2 c) of the GDPR “any measure
taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to alleviate the damages and per-
judgments suffered by the interested parties", the measure of withdrawal of the content did not derive from
a spontaneous action by the claimed party aimed at alleviating, in an effective manner,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/74

the damage suffered by the victim, but rather an urgent and compulsory removal order.
of the AEPD, therefore it cannot be considered in the present case as a
extenuating.

For this purpose, it is necessary to take into account the Guidelines 04/2022 of the Committee
European Data Protection Committee on the calculation of administrative fines with
according to the RGPD, in its version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation,
which state that "The measures adopted must be evaluated, in particular, in
relation to the element of opportunity, that is, the moment in which they are applied
by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, and its effectiveness. In this sense, it is more
It is likely that measures applied spontaneously before the start of the
investigation of the control authority are known by the person in charge or the
in charge of the treatment that the measures that have been applied after that
moment."

Circumstance regulated in article 83.2 f) of the GDPR

On the other, in order to assess the concurrence of the circumstance contemplated in the
Article 83.2 f) of the GDPR as mitigation, part of the
content of the Agreement for the adoption of provisional measure of ***DATE.5:

"Carried out by this Agency a provisional assessment of the facts in the framework of
the Previous Investigative Actions File no. ***FILE.1, addressed to
identify the person responsible for the publication, it is estimated that there are reasonable indications
that the public exposure of personal data through the aforementioned
addresses may constitute a violation of article 6.1 a) of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
personal data and the free movement of such data and repealing the Directive
95/46/CE (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR).

Taking into account the especially sensitive nature of the personal data disclosed
and the intense affectation of the privacy of the person to whom they refer, this Agency
you consider that continuing your treatment may put you at risk
irreversible, impossible to repair.

It is, consequently, a case of urgency that cannot be postponed, in which, for the
provisional protection of the interests involved, it is necessary and proportionate
take provisional measures.

Therefore, it is necessary to urge the adoption of provisional measures to cease this
processing of personal data, prevent the transfer to third parties and, ultimately,
safeguard the fundamental right to the protection of personal data of the
affected person.

According to the GDPR in its article 57, the AEPD, control authority in matters
of data protection, has been attributed the power to control the application of the
General Data Protection Regulation and make it apply. To do this, it bears the
powers established in article 58 of said Regulation.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/74

Additionally, Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce establishes, in its article 11, the duty of
collaboration of intermediary service providers when a body
competent authority had ordered that the provision of a service of the
information society or the withdrawal of certain contents.

For all of the foregoing, in use of the powers conferred by article
58 of the GDPR, and in accordance with the provisions of article 69 of Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), AGREEMENT:

1.- Require EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL, S.L. to proceed, with the
as immediacy as possible, to remove or distort the voice of the intervening party
in such a way that it cannot be directly or indirectly identified from the
aforementioned contents, avoiding to the extent that the state of the
technology allows, the re-upload or re-upload of copies or exact replicas by
the same or other users.

2.- Require EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL, S.L. so that the withdrawal or
modification of the contents is carried out in such a way that it makes it impossible to
access and disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantee its conservation,
in order to safeguard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of
police or administrative investigation or judicial process that could
be educated

3.- Require EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL, S.L. to inform this
Spanish Data Protection Agency on the execution of the
extent.

(…)

In accordance with the provisions of article 83 of the GDPR, the breach of the
resolutions of the supervisory authority in accordance with article 58, paragraph 2, of the GDPR,
will be sanctioned with administrative fines of a maximum of 20 million euros or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the one with the highest value."

As can be seen, the Agency, using the powers provided for in article
58 of the GDPR, requires ***COMPANY.2 to carry out a series of actions (in-
among them, to proceed to the immediate withdrawal of a series of contents or to the distortion
voice of the victim).
It is undeniable that the text of the Agreement conveys the idea of immediacy, of urgency
Inc.
The duty of collaboration of intermediation service providers is highlighted
when the AEPD had ordered the withdrawal of certain contents (article 11
of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the information society and
electronic commerce).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/74

Likewise, the media is warned of the consequences derived from the
non-compliance with the resolutions of the Agency under article 58.2 of the GDPR,
with the possibility of being penalized with a large administrative fine.

This last circumstance is extremely important, since it cannot be considered that
cooperation occurs, when acting in accordance with the provisions of an Agreement of
adoption of a provisional measure, non-compliance with which would imply the imposition of a
sanction. Just as it would not be possible to understand that said circumstance occurs if
acted in compliance with a court order.

Consequently, taking into account the circumstances of this case
(dissemination of journalistic information in a case of multiple rape together with the
undistorted voice of the victim), that the responding party had received a Settlement
adoption of a provisional measure, which ordered him to carry out, on an indefinite basis,
mediate, a series of actions, as well as the content of said Agreement, which contains
tempered the possibility of being penalized if the provisions therein were not complied with,
The Agency considers that the circumstance regulated in article 83.2 cannot be applied
f) of the GDPR as mitigation.

Circumstance regulated in article 83.2 g) of the GDPR

Likewise, elDiario.es alleges that this Agency has not taken into account the provisions of the
Article 83.2 g) of the GDPR. In which the following is provided:
"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:
(…)
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement”

This Agency does not share this statement. In relation to said precept the agreement
Initially it stated the following:

“- Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR.

Categories of personal data affected by the infringement: The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as the one reporting the news, very serious,
violent and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is seriously detrimental
for the affected, since what happened is linked to her sexual life.”

As previously noted, Diario.es decided to publish the information
along with the undistorted voice of the victim. This circumstance put her at risk.
certain to be able to be identified. Especially serious circumstance if one takes into account
realize that it was a multiple rape and that in the recording to which
broadcast, she is heard recounting in the first person how the rape occurred.

Concurrence of aggravating circumstances

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/74

In the pleadings to the initiation agreement, the defendant party analyzes the
concurrence of aggravating circumstances:

"(...) regarding the loss of control over the personal data of the victim of
a violent crime against sexual freedom, it is strictly necessary to refer to the
preceding allegation regarding the publicity of the act of the Oral Trial and the
exclusive competence of the Chamber of Justice to carry out the limitation of rights
that it deems appropriate when there is a conflict between the rights
of the victim in this case and the right to information, as we have already explained above.
supra in greater detail, and that it is opportune to reproduce regarding the consideration of
negligence that is carried out of the conduct with respect to the publication of the file of
video, which we remember, is ceded to EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL S.L by the
EFE Agency.”

The status of controller of elDiario.es has already been highlighted in the
foundation of law IV.

Regarding the transfer of the video by Agencia EFE, it should be noted that it is a
data processing that is not subject to examination in this disciplinary file.
Likewise, reference is made again to the content of the Judgment of the Court of
Justice of the European Union in the Fashion ID case, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:2018:1039,
relating to previous or subsequent operations in the processing chain.

Likewise, the brief of allegations to the initiation agreement stands out:

(...) in this case to determine the occurrence of an aggravating circumstance, which
“in such sensitive circumstances, especially when on many occasions
distorts the voice in the news so that the person is not recognized
talking." It corresponded to the Chamber of Justice, which seems obvious did not consider it, (...)

As has been highlighted in the fundamentals of law IV and V, elDiario.es was the
responsible for the treatment and, in application of the principle of proactive responsibility,
should have carried out a risk assessment and analysis prior to the
publication of the news together with the voice of the victim. Such actions would have
allowed to detect the need to guarantee respect for the principle of minimization
before carrying out the treatment.

twelfth

In relation to the alleged violation of effective judicial protection due to lack of
motivation in relation to the inadmissibility of evidence:

1. Article 76.2 of the Administrative Procedure Law.

In the allegations reproduced, ElDiario.es states:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/74

“It should be added that, according to article 76.2 of the Administrative Procedure Law,
When the test consists of issuing a report from an administrative body,
public body or entity governed by public law, it shall be understood that it has a
mandatory".

Article 77 of the LPACAP regulates the means and trial period:

Section 6 of said article provides:

“6. When the test consists of the issuance of a report by a body
administration, public body or public law entity, it will be understood that
it is prescriptive."

Although in sections 2 and 3 of said article they provide the following:

"2. When the Administration does not consider the facts alleged by the
interested or the nature of the procedure requires it, the instructor of the same will agree
the opening of a trial period for a period not exceeding thirty days and not less than
ten, so that as many as it deems pertinent can be practiced. Also, when you
deems necessary, the instructor, at the request of the interested parties, may decide the
opening of an extraordinary trial period for a period not exceeding ten days.

3. The instructor of the procedure may only reject the tests proposed by the
interested when they are manifestly inappropriate or unnecessary, through
reasoned resolution.”

As can be seen, article 77.6 of the LPACAP begins by indicating "When
the test consists of issuing a report from an administrative body…”. Of
said wording, as well as the content of article 77 of the LPACAP, it is inferred the
following time order:

YO.

II.

III.

The claimed party requests the practice of a test consisting of the issuance
of a report.

The instructor accepts or rejects the practice of the proposed test.

If said test is accepted and consists of issuing a report from a
administrative body, public body or Public Law Entity,
it will be understood that said report is of a mandatory nature.

This last provision (mandatory nature of the report) must be related to
the content of article 22.1 d) of the LPACAP, which provides the following:

"Article 22. Suspension of the maximum term to resolve"

1. The course of the maximum legal term to resolve a procedure and notify the
resolution may be suspended in the following cases:

(…)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

55/74

d) When mandatory reports are requested from a body of the same or different
Administration, for the time between the request, which must be communicated to
interested parties, and the receipt of the report, which must also be communicated to
the same. This period of suspension may not exceed in any case three
months. If the report is not received within the indicated period, the process will continue.
procedure.
(…)”

Consequently, the consideration of said report as mandatory allows
suspend the maximum term to resolve the procedure.

Therefore, said article cannot be interpreted as claimed by the defendant in
the sense that if the claimed party requests as evidence a report of
a public administrative body or public law entity, said report is
mandatory, for the simple fact of having been requested as a means of proof.

Following the interpretation of elDiario.es, it would suffice to request the broadcast as proof
of a report from a public administrative body or public law entity,
even if the content of said report was neither relevant nor pertinent, so that
said request had to be accepted, given that the report is mandatory.

This interpretation is not consistent with the possibility contemplated in article 77.3
of the LPACAP to reject the tests proposed by the interested parties when they are
manifestly inappropriate and unnecessary.

Therefore, it is up to the procedure instructor to accept or reject the evidence.
proposed by the claimed party.

In this case, the evidence requested has been assessed and it has been estimated that there is no
accept their practice, as they are manifestly unnecessary tests, as
will be explained below

 *** COURT.1
2. Evidence consisting of issuing an official letter to the Press Office of the
 
 
 

In its allegations to the proposed resolution, elDiario.es states:

“Regarding the Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.2, it must be remembered that
we are talking about the actual data controller
referred to, in accordance with articles 236 bis, 236 ter and 236 quater of the LOPJ, is the
court in the exercise of its activity. But it is that, in addition, it turns out
It is essential to know the degree of data minimization existing prior to its
diffusion through the EFE Agency, as well as accrediting the relationship of the publicity of the
trial with the fundamental right to information.

It is the present Spanish Agency for Data Protection who must weigh (and not
conflict) the right to privacy with the right to information,
for which, obviously, he needs to know all the antecedents related to the
protection (inadequate or not) of both rights and their exercise.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

56/74

As stated in the legal basis IV, the AEPD considers that
elDiario.es is responsible for the treatment, not the Superior Court of Justice of
***CCAA.1 or the Provincial Court of ***LOCALITY.2.

Based on proactive responsibility, it was up to elDiario.es to carry out an analysis
of risks prior to the publication of the news. In this way, he would have been able to detect
that if he posted the information along with the victim's undistorted voice, it would be
created a certain risk that it could be identified by people who
They were unaware of their status as a victim. It would also have appreciated that, in order, both
to prevent said risk from materializing and to comply with the principle of
data minimization, some kind of action had to be taken. For example:



Include a transcript of the victim's statement (made by
the publication of his voice is unnecessary).

 Distorting the voice of the victim, in order to prevent those who accessed the

news could identify her.

The person responsible for carrying out said risk analysis and deciding on the
adoption of any of these measures was elDiario.es, a communication medium that
published the information, not the Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.2.

In addition, in relation to the trial "***CASE.1", the Provincial Court
 of
***LOCATION.2 made a series of decisions taken in a very
concrete: a judicial proceeding that was being held in said Body
Judicial. In this sanctioning procedure, the actions are not being examined
adopted by the aforementioned Court in said framework. It is being analyzed if the
decisions adopted, subsequently, by Diario.es in the field of treatment,
for which he was responsible and that he decided to carry out, by publishing information together
with the voice of the victim without distorting, suppose a violation of the regulations in
matter of protection of personal data.

Let us examine one of the paragraphs contained in the allegation above
reproduced:

It is the present Spanish Agency for Data Protection who must weigh (and not
conflict) the right to privacy with the right to information,
for which, obviously, he needs to know all the antecedents related to the
protection (inadequate or not) of both rights and their exercise.

This file is analyzing a possible violation of the right to
protection of personal data, not the right to privacy.

The right to personal and family privacy protects the intimate and private sphere of
person, given its relationship with the right to dignity. The right of the
person to their privacy and to develop a life in the strictest privacy and reserve
of public knowledge. In the words of the TC: "this right confers on the person the
legal power to impose on third parties, be they public powers or simple
individuals the duty to refrain from all interference in the intimate sphere and the
prohibition of making use of what is so known and from this it follows that the right

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

57/74

fundamental to personal privacy grants at least one negative faculty or
exclusion, which imposes on third parties the duty to refrain from interference unless
are founded on a legal provision that has constitutional justification and that is
provided, or that there is an effective consent that authorizes it, since
It is up to each person to limit the scope of personal and family privacy that
reserved to the knowledge of others» (STC 196/2004, of November 15).

As can be seen, in relation to the right to privacy, it plays a role
The decisive factor is the person, who delimits the scope reserved for the knowledge of others.

In relation to the fundamental right to the protection of personal data,
The Constitutional Court Judgment 292/2000, of November 30, is key.
that ends up splitting the fundamental right to the protection of personal data
of the fundamental right to personal privacy, configuring it as a
independent right and with its own content.

According to said Judgment:

“(…) the content of the fundamental right to data protection consists of a
power of disposal and control over personal data that empowers the person
to decide which of these data to provide to a third party, be it the State or a
individual, or which this third party may collect, and which also allows the individual
know who owns that personal data and for what, being able to oppose that
possession or use.”

Said Judgment provides:

“The function of the fundamental right to privacy of art. 18.1 CE is to protect
against any invasion that may be carried out in that sphere of personal life and
familiar that the person wishes to exclude from the knowledge of others and from the intrusions of
third parties against their will (for all STC 144/1999, of July 22, F. 8). In
On the other hand, the fundamental right to data protection seeks to guarantee that
person a power of control over their personal data, over its use and destination, with
the purpose of preventing their illicit and harmful traffic for the dignity and right of the
affected. Finally, the right to privacy allows the exclusion of certain data of a person
of the knowledge of others, for this reason, and this Court has said so (SSTC
134/1999, of July 15, F. 5; 144/1999, f. 8; 98/2000, of April 10, F. 5; 115/2000,
of May 10, F. 4), that is, the power to protect your private life from a
unwanted advertising. The right to data protection guarantees individuals
a power of disposal over these data.(…). But that power of disposition over
the personal data itself is useless if the affected party does not know what data is the
that are owned by third parties, who owns them, and for what purpose.”

It also highlights:

"In this way, the object of protection of the fundamental right to the protection of
data is not reduced only to the intimate data of the person, but to any type of
personal data, whether intimate or not, whose knowledge or use by third parties may
affect their rights, whether fundamental or not, because their object is not only the
individual privacy, which for this is the protection that art. 18.1 CE grants, but

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

58/74

personal data. Therefore, it also reaches those data
public personal, that by the fact of being, of being accessible to the knowledge of
anyone, do not escape the power of disposition of the affected party because this is guaranteed by his
right to data protection. Also for this reason, the fact that the data is of a
does not mean that only those related to private or intimate life have protection
of the person, but the covered data are all those that identify or
allow the identification of the person, being able to serve for the preparation of their profile
ideological, racial, sexual, economic or of any other nature, or that serve to
any other utility that in certain circumstances constitutes a threat
for the individual.

But the fundamental right to data protection also has a second
peculiarity that distinguishes it from others, such as the right to personal privacy and
family of art. 18.1 EC. This peculiarity lies in its content, since
Unlike the latter, which confers on the person the legal power to impose on
third parties the duty to refrain from any interference in the intimate sphere of the person and
the prohibition of making use of what is so known (SSTC 73/1982, of December 2, F.
5; 110/1984, of November 26, F. 3; 89/1987, of June 3, F. 3; 231/1988, of 2 of
December, F. 3; 197/1991, of October 17, F. 3, and in general SSTC 134/1999,
of July 15, 144/1999, of July 22, and 115/2000, of May 10), the right to
data protection attributes to its owner a bundle of powers consisting of various
legal powers whose exercise imposes legal duties on third parties, which are not
contain in the fundamental right to privacy, and that serve the capital function
performs this fundamental right: to guarantee the person a power of
control over your personal data, which is only possible and effective by imposing
third parties the aforementioned duties to perform. Namely: the right to require the
prior consent for the collection and use of personal data, the right to
know and be informed about the destination and use of this data and the right to access,
rectify and cancel said data. In short, the power of disposition over the data
personal (STC 254/1993, F. 7).”

Therefore, the fundamental right to data protection is a different right from the
Right to privacy. It guarantees its owner a power of control over their data
personal, attributing to it a bundle of faculties consisting of various powers
legal, the exercise of which imposes legal duties on third parties.

This file tries to guarantee that the data processing carried out
elDiario.es, relying on the exercise of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information and on the legal basis provided for in article 6.1 f) of the GDPR (interest
legitimate), is fully respectful of the principles contemplated in article 5
of the GDPR, especially with the principle of data minimization.

Based on all these clarifications, it is understood that although the Superior Court
of Justice of ***CCAA.1 confirmed that the signal applied was the institutional one and that
an order on limitations was not issued, as there was no restriction on public access,
but only a limitation of diffusion of the image, would not substantially affect
to the substance of the issue being analyzed in this proceeding. All of them
would be measures agreed by a different data controller, adopted in
a very specific framework (the judicial) and in relation to a treatment that is not
being examined in this disciplinary file.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

59/74

 

 ***COMPANY.1
 in order to contribute the video
3. Proof consisting of issuing an official letter to
 
 
 
 “***PROGRAM.1”.
 
of the interview of the victim's parents in the
 
 

In relation to the test related to issuing an official letter to ***COMPANY.1 so that
provide the complete video of the interview with the parents of the victim in the
“***PROGRAM.1” elDiario.es alleges:

"(...) we consider that (...) the exposure of the victim to which his
parents themselves, are clearly essential elements of this proceeding.”

As just indicated, the fundamental right to data protection is a
right different from the right to privacy, which guarantees its owner a power of
control over your personal data, attributing to you a bundle of consistent powers
in various legal powers, the exercise of which imposes legal duties on third parties.

The fact that the victim's parents have granted an interview in a media
of communication does not affect the fact that your daughter is the holder of the right to
protection of personal data and does not reduce the sphere of protection that said
fundamental right unfolds with respect to the victim.

It also highlights:

“Regarding the video of the ***COMPANY.1 television program,
We consider it impossible to assess the background of this case without questioning
relation all the data made public by this means, put in relation to the
voice of the victim disseminated by the Court of Justice of and the EFE Agency: it is the
present Spanish Data Protection Agency who must consider whether the simple
diffusion of the voice of the victim, without being related to the data provided by
their relatives (their voice and the location of the victim), would have been a piece of information
sufficient for its identification by the readers of eldiario.es.”

Said interview is a different treatment, which is not being examined in the
present disciplinary file.

Likewise, even when in said interview the voices of the
victim's parents, the fact that they have hidden their face, clearly shows their
desire not to be identified.

On the other hand, when a test is carried out, the aim is to solve
Doubts about the existence or non-existence of the relevant facts for the decision
of the conflict that is the subject of the process. In this case, the Agency has no doubt that said
interview ensued.

Nor does it question that throughout the same, the victim's parents revealed
data. Said data, provided in the framework of a treatment different from that examined
in this proceeding, are not decisive when it comes to determining whether Diario.es,
carry out the treatment for which he was responsible, infringed article 5.1 c) of the GDPR or
No.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

60/74

However, if elDiario.es was aware of said interview on ***DATE.6 and
considered that the data provided in it could facilitate the
identification of the victim by its readers, it should have taken into account
said circumstance when carrying out the risk analysis prior to the
publication, since the data of the voice, which was going to be published together with the information, was
would add to the information already available, increasing the risk that the victim
could be identified. A person responsible for the treatment of multiple character data
personnel, who acted diligently in accordance with proactive responsibility,
would have taken that circumstance into account.

To end with the reiteration of the request for the taking of evidence relating to the
interview of the parents in their allegations, elDiario.es attaches great importance
to data relating to the location of the victim, coming to consider it data that would have
been sufficient for his identification by the readers of said newspaper.
Likewise, it emphasizes on numerous occasions that it was facilitated by the parents of the
victim during interview: (emphasis added).

"(...) Parents have given their consent to issue their voice without distorting,
offering in said interview other relevant data for the purposes of data protection,
how is the town –
 
  and victim of
crime against sexual freedom.”

 - in which his own daughter resides
 

 ***LOCATION.1
 

(...) the voice is not as decisive an element as a facial feature could be),
Rather, we are referring to the data provided by their parents in said interview, such as
is the locality, an extreme in no case would have been disseminated by eldiario.es
accompanying the undistorted voice of the victim or her parents.”

"Therefore, it is not appropriate for this Agency to allege that we admit that the victim may be
recognized for her voice, a clearly insufficient element in the media
but we stress that such identification would be completely impossible for
the readers of eldiario.es nor the viewers of
  without being required
 
 
 
more information such as, unfortunately, the specific location of the victim.”

 ***CHANNEL.1
 

(...) and when the victim's voice is personal data that, without being linked
with other data not provided by this medium (such as its location or the voice of its
parents), cannot be considered as sufficient element for identification by
part of the readers of the media.

(...) it is the present Spanish Agency for Data Protection who must consider whether
the simple dissemination of the victim's voice, without being related to the data
provided by their relatives (their voice and the location of the victim),
would have been sufficient data for identification by the readers of
eldiario.es.”

As we have previously indicated, the location of the victim was provided by
elDiario.es together with the video with the victim's voice without distorting.

4. Jurisprudence on the means of evidence proposed and the relevance of the evidence
requested.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

61/74

Finally, it is necessary to refer to the jurisprudence on the means of
evidence proposed and the relevance of the evidence requested.

In this sense, the fourth legal basis of STC19/2001, of January 29,
stands out: (emphasis added).

(…). Specifically, in our constitutional doctrine we have emphasized the
connection of this specific constitutional right with the right to judicial protection
effective (art. 24.1 CE), whose scope includes issues related to evidence
(SSTC 89/1986, of July 1, F. 2; 50/1988, of March 22, F. 3; 110/1995, of 4
July, F. 4; 189/1996, of November 25, F. 3; and 221/1998, of November 24, F.
3), and with the right of defense (art. 24.2 CE), from which it is inseparable (SSTC
131/1995, of September 11, F. 2; 1/1996, of January 15, F. 2; and 26/2000, of 31
January , F. 2). It has been precisely this inseparable connection that has allowed
affirm that the essential content of the right to use evidence
pertinent is integrated by the legal power that is recognized to whoever intervenes as
litigant in a process of provoking the procedural activity necessary to achieve the
conviction of the judicial body on the existence or non-existence of the facts
relevant to the decision of the conflict object of the process (for all, STC 37/2000,
of February 14, F. 3).”

Therefore, it is necessary that through the practice of the test the
conviction of this Agency on the existence or non-existence of relevant facts
for the decision of the conflict, a circumstance that is not fulfilled in the present case. The
requested tests relate to treatments that are not the subject of examination in this
disciplinary procedure and its practice does not distort the fact that elDiario.es
posted the undistorted voice of a gang rape victim. Treatment
that it was excessive and violated the provisions of article 5.1 c) of the GDPR (principle
of data minimization).

The STC 19/2001, of January 29, continues: (the underlining is ours).

“Advancing one more step in the exposition of the constitutional doctrine related to the
right to evidence, it is worth remembering now that its inclusion in art. 24.2 EC has not
to be understood as the constitutionalization of an absolute and automatic right to
the proof in all the processes and in their different degrees (STC 33/2000, of 14
February, F. 2). In other words, this right does not authorize to demand the admission of all
evidence that may be proposed by the parties in the process, but attributes only
the right to receive and practice those that are pertinent,
Corresponding to the judicial bodies the examination of the legality and relevance of
the requested tests (for all, STC 96/2000, of April 10, F. 2, and the
resolutions mentioned there).

In this case, the practice of the requested tests has been assessed and it is considered that
they are not pertinent, for the reasons that have been previously exposed.

The STC STC 19/2001, of January 29 highlights: (the underlining is ours).

"(...), it also seems necessary to point out that this Court is only competent to
control said judicial decisions in the cases in which they had inadmissible

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

62/74

relevant evidence for the final resolution without any motivation or through a
interpretation and application of the law manifestly arbitrary or unreasonable, or
when the omission of the practice of the evidentiary proceedings previously admitted
is attributable to the judicial body and produces defenselessness (STC 96/2000, F. 2, and the
resolutions mentioned there). In any case, we must emphasize the fact
that for the issue to acquire constitutional relevance it is necessary that the
refusal or failure to take the test has resulted in an effective
material defenselessness for the appellant. In other words, that the test is
decisive in terms of defense because, if the omitted test had been performed or if
the admitted one had been practiced correctly, the final resolution of the process
could have been different (among the most recent, SSTC 26/2000, of January 31, F.
2; 37/2000, of February 14, F. 3; 96/2000, of April 10, F. 2; and 173/2000, of 26
June, F. 3), in the sense of being favorable to those who denounce the infringement of the right
fundamental."

This circumstance does not apply in the present case either, since the evidence
requested were not decisive, since their practice did not
would determine that the final resolution of the disciplinary file would have been different.

For the reasons set forth in the above legal grounds, the
all the allegations made by the claimed party, both to the initiation agreement
as to the motion for a resolution.

XIII

The voice of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is personal data
make it identifiable, and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said GDPR:

“Personal data”: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each physical person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin, his hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of the expression, the idiolect or the intonation, are also data of
personal character considered together with the voice.

For this reason, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency states that "the
image as well as the voice of a person is personal data, as will be
any information that makes it possible to determine, directly or indirectly, your identity
(…)”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

63/74

In fact, the National Court Judgment dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes data of a personal nature, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
as
<<any information concerning natural persons identified or
identifiable>>, an issue that is not controversial.”

Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines "processing" as: "any operation or set of
of operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data,
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction.”

The inclusion of a person's voice in journalistic publications, which identifies or
makes a person identifiable, implies a processing of personal data and, therefore,
Therefore, the person responsible for the treatment that carries out the same is obliged to comply with
the obligations for the data controller set forth in the GDPR and in
the LOPDGDD.

fourteenth

This procedure is initiated because the claimed party published, on the website
referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a
multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case
that was very mediatic. The victim's voice was clearly appreciated when recounting
with all the crudeness of details the multiple rape suffered. All this constitutes a
processing of personal data of the victim.

People have the power of disposal over their personal data, including
his voice, as well as its diffusion, resulting, without a doubt, deserving of
protection of the person whose personal data is disclosed in violation of the law
legal.

Thus, STC 292/2000, of November 30, provides that "the content of the right
Fundamental to data protection consists of a power of disposal and control
on personal data that empowers the person to decide which of those data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or which can this third party
collect, and which also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These powers of disposition and
control over personal data, which constitute part of the content of the right
fundamental to data protection are legally specified in the power to
consent to the collection, obtaining and access to personal data, its subsequent
storage and treatment, as well as its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the
state or an individual. And that right to consent to knowledge and treatment,
computerized or not, of personal data, requires as complements
essential, on the one hand, the ability to know at all times who has
these personal data and to what use you are submitting them, and, on the other hand, the power
oppose such possession and uses”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

64/74

In this sense, and regardless of the legal basis legitimizing the
treatment, all controllers must respect the principles of
treatment included in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR which establishes that:

"1. Personal data will be

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");"

However, we are faced with a fundamental right that is not absolute,
since, if necessary, the Fundamental Right to Data Protection can
give in to the prevalence of other rights and freedoms also constitutionally
recognized and protected, such as, for example, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information, weighing it on a case-by-case basis.

However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that the
treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly publicized case, makes the victim clearly identifiable. By pondering the
conflicting interests and, considering the concurrent circumstances of this case,
that is, the especially sensitive nature of personal data and the intense
affectation of the privacy of the victim, the interest of the owner deserves greater protection
of the right to the protection of your personal data and that they are not disclosed in front of the
claimed public interest in its dissemination.

fifteenth

In the struggle between the Fundamental Rights to Freedom of Information in
relation to the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, even
when an equal degree of protection is recognized for both constitutional rights,
ordinarily the first is usually endowed with prevalence by our courts, after
assess and weigh all the elements at stake.

However, preponderance does not mean prevalence when, after all the
concurrent circumstances in a specific case, the limits set are exceeded
normatively and jurisprudentially.

In this sense, the Article 29 Working Group in its Opinion 06/2014 on the
concept of legitimate interest of the data controller under the
Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the legal basis of the legitimate interest of the
Article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/CE, fully transferable to the current art. 6.1.f) of
GDPR, includes the right to freedom of expression or information as one of the
cases in which the question of legitimate interest may arise, stating that "without
regardless of whether the interests of the data controller will ultimately prevail
term on the interests and rights of the interested parties when the
weighing test”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

65/74

16th

That said, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information is not
absolute. We can observe very clear limits established by the courts in the
civil sphere, in relation to the Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
the Image itself.

Thus, we will cite, for all, the STC 27/2020, of February 24, 2020 (appeal of
amparo 1369-2017) that provides, in relation to the image of a person, and
starting from the incontrovertible fact that makes it identifiable, that "...the question
discussed is reduced to pondering whether the non-consented reproduction of the image of a
anonymous person, that is, someone who is not a public figure, but who acquires
suddenly and involuntarily a role in the newsworthy event, in this case as
victim of the failed attempted murder by his brother and the subsequent suicide
of this, supposed an illegitimate interference in his fundamental right to his own
image (art. 18.1 CE).

[…]

…that criminal events are newsworthy events, even with
regardless of the character of private subject of the person affected by the news. Without
However, the limit is in the individualization, direct or indirect, of the victim, since
This data is not of public interest because it lacks relevance for the information
that is allowed to be transmitted (SSTC 20/1992, of February 20; 219/1992, of
December; 232/1993, of July 12; 52/2002, of February 25; 121/2002, of 20
May, and 127/2003, of June 30). Thus, it is currently recognized by Law 4/2015, of 27
April, of the crime victim statute, in force since October 28, 2015,
when he warns of the need "from the public authorities [to offer] a
response as broad as possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims,
not only repairing the damage in the framework of a criminal proceeding, but also
minimizing other traumatic effects on the moral that his condition can
generate, all this regardless of their procedural situation. Therefore, the present
Statute, in line with European regulations on the matter and with the demands that
raises our society, claims, based on the recognition of the dignity of
victims, the defense of their material and moral assets and, with it, those of the group of
the society". In cases such as those raised in this appeal, this Court must
give relevance to the prevalence of the right to the image of the victim of the crime
against information freedoms, since graphic information became idle or
superfluous because the photograph of the victim lacks real interest for the transmission of
the information, in this case the apparent accomplishment of a homicide and subsequent
suicide” (emphasis added).

We will add the STS, from its First Civil Chamber, 272/2011 of April 11, 2011
(rec. 1747/2008), in which, regarding the data necessary to provide a
information and limits to the public interest states that "b) Trivial information is not
protects (ATC 75/2006), but the fact of providing unnecessary data in a case of
rape (full name, last name initials, street portal where
the victim lived) that have no community relevance, do not respect the reservation, only
seek to satisfy curiosity, produce disturbances or annoyances, and reveal

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

66/74

aspects of personal and private life unnecessarily, allowing neighbors,
close people and relatives full identification of the victim and knowledge
in great detail about an act that seriously violated his dignity (STC
185/2002) or about a disease that has no public interest and affects
direct to the irreducible field of intimacy and that reveals itself to the effect of a pure
joke or joke (STC 232/1993);”.

Likewise, the STS, of its First Civil Chamber, Judgment 661/2016 of 10
November 2016 (rec. 3318/2014), in relation to the recruitment and disclosure in court
of the image of a victim of gender violence provided that "1.) The
interest of the questioned information nor the right of the defendant television channel
to broadcast images recorded during the act of the oral trial of the criminal case, since they did not
There is no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the applicant's identification
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
shots of his face and the mention of his first name and place of residence, he was
also included in the fundamental right of the television channel
demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was limited by the
fundamental rights of the plaintiff to her personal privacy and to her own
image.

3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media. 7th) The identification of the plaintiff through his
image and personal data indicated and its direct link to an episode of
gender violence and other serious crimes, when disclosure was foreseeable
Simultaneous or subsequent data referring to how the victim and her aggressor met
and the way in which the criminal acts occurred, supposes that the loss of the
anonymity would violate both the plaintiff's right to her own image, by the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

67/74

broadcast of their physical features, such as their personal and family intimacy, to the extent that
that some reserved data, belonging to his private life (who went to the Internet
to start a relationship or the intimate content of some of their talks), lacking
offensive entity in a situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment
in which any person who watched those news programs and who resided in the
location of the victim could know who they were referring to, so that the damage
psychological damage inherent to his condition as a victim of crimes was added to the moral damage
consisting of the disclosure of information about his private life that he had not consented to
make public." (underlining is ours).

As we can see, a clear reference is made to the excessive treatment of
personal data (some of which are not of an intimate nature) to provide the
information, considering them unnecessary at all points in attention to the
concurrent circumstances. Sometimes the courts refer to intimate data,
but sometimes it is personal data that is not intimate, such as, for
For example, the image of a natural person obtained from a photograph published in a
social network or name and surname.

seventeenth

In the specific case examined, as we have indicated, the claimed party
published, on the website referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge
of a victim of a multiple rape, to illustrate the news of a very
media.

Thus, it is not a question, as in other cases examined by jurisprudence, of endowing
of prevalence to a fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more
weight in a specific case. If not, rather, to find a balance between
both to achieve the achievement of the purpose of the first without undermining the second.
The reconciliation of both rights is nothing new, since the legislator
European Union mandates such reconciliation in article 85 of the GDPR.

As we have seen previously, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not unlimited, since the jurisprudential interpretation when confronting it
with other rights and freedoms does not allow the same in any case and with all breadth,
but, nevertheless, the prevalence that the courts usually endow it can be seen
limited by other fundamental rights that must also be respected. Thus
observes its limitation when the personal data provided was unnecessary for the
essence of the information content.

We must consider the special circumstances present in the supposed
examined. It is about a very young woman who has suffered a multiple rape. In
In the published recording, she is heard recounting, with great emotional charge, the
sexual assault suffered with all crudeness, (...).

In addition, we cannot lose sight of the victim status of the woman whose voice, with
all the nuances exposed, has spread.

Let us remember, for merely illustrative purposes, that Law 4/2015, of April 27,
of the Statute of the victim of crime, as well as the recent Organic Law 10/2022, of 6

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

68/74

of September, of integral guarantee of sexual freedom, foresee a special
need to protect victims of crimes against sexual freedom or
sexual indemnity, as well as victims of violent crimes, circumstances both
that concur in the case examined.

In this case, the situation of the victim must be considered (who is not in the
same level of equality as the defendants) and what the diffusion of their voice with
all its nuances, as well as the special protection that the
legal system that, without constraining the supply of information, must be done
compatible with the principle of data minimization, applicable to the form, the
medium in which the information is supplied and disseminated due to the immediate affectation of the data
personnel and the identification of the victim.

Precisely because the obvious informative public interest in the news is not denied,
Given the general interest in criminal cases, in this specific case, it is not a question of
to diminish the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information due to the prevalence
of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, but of
make them fully compatible so that both are absolutely
guaranteed. That is, the freedom of information of the media is not questioned.
of communication but the weighting with the right to data protection based on
to the proportionality and need to publish the specific personal data of the voice. Such
situation could have been resolved with the use of technical procedures to
prevent voice recognition, such as, for example, distortion of the voice of
the victim or the transcript of the report of the multiple rape, security measures
both, applied depending on the case in an ordinary way by means of
communication.

At older we have to mean that the victim is an anonymous person and our
Constitutional Court, for all STC 58/2018 of June 4, affirms that the
public authorities, public officials and public figures or those dedicated to
activities that carry public notoriety “voluntarily accept the risk of
that their subjective personality rights are affected by criticism, opinions
or adverse disclosures and, therefore, the right to information reaches, in relation to
with them, its maximum level of legitimizing effectiveness, insofar as their life and conduct
morality participate in the general interest with a greater intensity than that of those
private persons who, without a vocation for public projection, see themselves
circumstantially involved in matters of public importance, to which
Therefore, a higher level of privacy must be recognized, which prevents
granting general importance to facts or behaviors that would have it if they were referred to
to public figures".

The STJUE (Second Chamber) of February 14, 2019, in case C 345/17, Sergejs
Buivids mentions various criteria to ponder between the right to respect for
privacy and the right to freedom of expression, among which are “the
contribution to a debate of general interest, the notoriety of the affected person, the
object of the report, the previous behavior of the interested party, the content, the form and
the repercussions of the publication, the way and the circumstances in which it was obtained
information and its veracity (see, in this regard, the judgment of the ECtHR of 27
June 2017, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi Oy and Satamedia Oy v. Finland,
CE:ECHR:2017:0627JUD000093113, section 165)”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

69/74

In such a way that for a matter to be considered of general interest,
public relevance, they will be not only for the person who intervenes, but also for the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must concur, resulting, at greater
abundance of what was meant in the previous section, that in the case examined
the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is of great interest that
is recognized by third parties, so it may entail a new penalty
to the already suffered The victim is an anonymous person and must remain so, in such a way that
so that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed.

In the present case, (i) we are not dealing with a figure of public relevance, in which
sense that such relevance is sufficient to understand that it supposes, ex lege, a
dispossession of your fundamental right to the protection of your personal data, and (ii)
although we are dealing with facts "of public relevance", in the sense that they are revealed
as "necessary" for the presentation of ideas or opinions of public interest, that
necessity does not reach the provision of data that identifies the victim.

For this reason, and as expressed by the Supreme Court in its (civil) judgment 697/2019, of 19
December 2019, the formation of a free public opinion does not require, nor justify,
that the fundamental right to one's own image is affected [in this case to the protection
of personal data] with that seriousness and in a way that does not save the necessary
connection with the identification of the person object of the information.

It is worth mentioning the breach of point 1 of the Digital Pact for the
protection of persons, signed by the entities involved, which establishes that
"The signatories of the Charter will refrain from identifying the victims in any way.
of assaults, acts of violence or sexual content in their information or
publish information from which, in general, your identity can be inferred
in the case of people of no public relevance. All this without prejudice to the fact that the
non-public persons may be involved in newsworthy events, in which case
the informative coverage will be the necessary one to give adequate fulfillment to the right
information, taking into account the peculiarities of each case".

XVIII

Every person responsible for the treatment has conferred obligations in terms of
data protection, in the terms prescribed in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD,
being able to highlight, in terms of what interests us, proactive responsibility,
Article 5.2 of the GDPR, risk assessment and implementation of measures
of adequate security. Obligations that are even more relevant when, as in
In the case we are examining, this one is especially sensitive.

Such obligations do not decline because we are before a data controller
that it is a means of communication.

If we add the diffusion of the victim's voice (with all its nuances), which makes it
identifiable and can be recognized by third parties, with the factual account that makes
in relation to the violation suffered, there is a very high and very likely risk that
may suffer damage to their rights and freedoms. This has happened in other cases
of dissemination of personal data of victims of rape crimes. And this, in addition to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

70/74

that with the diffusion of the voice of the victim she is being sentenced again to
can be recognized by third parties, when it is not a proportional treatment or
necessary in relation to the information purposes pursued.

XIX

The claimed party has processed data that was excessive as it was not necessary for the
purpose for which they were processed, which constitutes an infringement of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR.

The infringement attributed to the claimed party is typified in article
83.5, section a) of the GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the
imposition of administrative fines" provides that:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

Article 72. Offenses considered very serious.

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

XX

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, precepts that state:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

71/74

"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
"Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

72/74

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In the present case, the following graduation criteria are considered concurrent:

 Aggravating:

- Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR:

Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement: It is considered that the nature of the
infraction is very serious since it entails a loss of disposition and control over
the personal data of your voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and
against sexual integrity and that by disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk
that it could be recognized by third parties, with the serious damages that this
it would cause

- Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR.

Intentional or negligent infringement: Although it is considered that there was no
intentionality on the part of the communication medium, it is estimated that it was negligent in
not ensure a procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data
in such sensitive circumstances, especially when on many occasions
distorts the voice in the news so that the person is not recognized
talking.

- Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR.

Categories of personal data affected by the infringement: The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as the one reporting the news, very serious, violent
and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is seriously detrimental to the
affected, since what happened is linked to their sexual life.

XXI

The text of the resolution establishes the offense committed and the
facts that have given rise to the violation of data protection regulations, of
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

73/74

which clearly infers what are the measures to adopt, notwithstanding that the
type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments to implement them
corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is the person responsible for the treatment who
He fully knows his organization and has to decide, based on the responsibility
proactive and risk approach, how to comply with the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL SL., with NIF B86509254,
for a breach of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the
GDPR, a fine of 50,000 euros (fifty thousand euros).

SECOND: Confirm the following provisional measures imposed on EL DIARIO
DIGITAL PRESS SL:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to EL DIARIO DE PRENSA DIGITAL
SL.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted IBAN number: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000, open in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A..
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

74/74

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

