 

 
 
711.440.1
 

 

Annex to the press release:
Important topics of the report of the Berlin Commissioner for Data
protection and freedom of information for the year 2020
 
As in previous years, the plan presented today for 2020 also includes
submitted the annual report of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Information
tion freedom (BlnBDI) Topics across all areas of life. The consequences-
The selected topics are intended to give an impression of the variety
fold of the facts, with which the supervisory authority in relation to
last year:
 
The year 2020 in numbers
 
Of the approx. 400 submissions that are made monthly to the Berlin representative
for data protection and freedom of information, a large part concerned the
pandemic-related shift of various areas of life to the digital, the
affected almost all citizens. The the-
digital teaching and video conferencing services are taking up a lot of space. Size
The rules for contact tracing also attracted attention.
 
The annual report contains clear statistics on complaints
arise, the procedures followed and the measures taken
(Chapter 20.6, pp. 262-263 and chap. 21, pp. 274-279).
 
A total of 925 cases of data breaches were reported to the Berlin Data Protection
commissioned by companies and authorities last year
reports. The supervisory authority received reports from
the medical sector. But also in other sensitive areas such as that of
Unions and banks, the volume was large (chap. 18.1, p. 238
– 240).
 
With every reported data breach, the authorities sometimes have to do a lot of work
verify that those responsible for eliminating the identified
implement necessary measures. Which this specifically
can be, the annual report shows clearly on the basis of the heavy
Malware infestation at the Berlin Court of Appeal (Chapter 18.2, pp. 240-243).
 
Effects of the Corona Pandemic
 
The dominant theme of the 2020 reporting year was the consequences of the
corona pandemic. The BlnBDI sat down on both Berliners and
advocate the numerous measures at national and European level
to fight the pandemic in accordance with data protection
develop. The annual report explains this using the example of the
Creation of the Corona-Warn-App, a study by the Charité to record
symptoms and how to use contact tracing lists. white
More important issues are fever measurements in shops and the enforcement
increase in the obligation to wear masks in schools and in local transport (chap. 1.1, p. 19 –
33).

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin
Visitor entrance:
Puttkamer Str. 16-18
 
Telephone: (030) 13889-900
Fax: (030) 215 50 50
presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
office hours
 
daily 10 a.m. - 3 p.m., Thurs. 10 a.m. - 6 p.m
(or by appointment)
 
reachability
 
U6: Kochstr.
Bus: M29, 248
 
Internet
 
https://datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 



- 2 -

 
The instructions from the BlnBDI on data protection
compliant use of video conferencing systems. In addition to direct
She did not publish any advice from those responsible and providers
only general recommendations for users, but also the results
extensive legal and technical examination of various
those common services, to deal with the countless inquiries about this
to provide guidance on the topic. Meanwhile, many providers in close
Exchanges with the authority responded and quite a number of originally
existing technical and legal deficiencies eliminated, so now
some privacy-friendly products are available (chap. 1.3, p.
41-46).
 
In the Berlin schools, too, lessons had to be canceled from one day to the next
to others at a distance, with students and teachers
te was confronted with years of omissions in digitization
were. The annual report explains how the BlnBDI committed itself to this in the reporting year
that children and young people in digital lessons can be carefree and
can learn unobserved, without them being aware of the company
Look at your shoulder (chap. 1.4, pp. 46-54).
 
However, the BlnBDI encountered significant deficits in digitization
not only in the education sector, but also in other areas of
administration. The BlnBDI campaigned to slow down the pace of large-scale digitization
to accelerate development projects while protecting data protection from the start
to think along. Important projects such as the "digital application" with which
Administrative services are now largely provided electronically
can be implemented last year (Chapter 2,
p. 61 – 64).
 
The aftermath also had enormous effects on the Berlin economy
Plaintiff named "Schrems II" decision of the European
court of justice The court overturned the so-called "EU-US Privacy Shield",
this has so far been the legal basis for the transmission of personal data
Data in the USA was valid. It made it clear that personal data
can only be transmitted to the USA under very strict conditions
allowed to. The BlnBDI welcomed the verdict and stood by those responsible in Berlin
with regard to the consequences in an advisory capacity (chap. 1.3, pp. 34 - 40).
 
police
 
For several years, the BlnBDI has been checking personal
pulled data in police databases that are related to
right-wing extremist death threats. The persistent denial
the police to support the supervisory authority in its work
she formally objected to last year. (Chap. 3.1, p. 65 – 67).
 
Based on a submission, the supervisory authority also checked
whether and to what extent the Berlin police in their work ethnic
personalities recorded in their files. She found that the
ethnicity was often recorded even if this was for the
police work would not have been necessary. Also this inadmissible
Processing of particularly sensitive personal data has
pending (chap. 3.5, p. 76 -- 79).
 
On the other hand, the introduction of a citizens' and
police officers in the state of Berlin as an external ombudsman who

 



- 3 -

control all processes independently in the interest of the citizens
target. The legislator has the data protection concerns of the BlnBDI
with regard to the original draft law and is now
more into account (Chapter 3.3, pp. 70-73).
 
Education & Family
 
Sensitive information was also the subject of a complaint against the
Procedure for Awarding a Scholarship. In the application process
which the candidates are asked to provide information about their religion and
to make their origin. The BlnBDI presented the result of their examination
states that such data may only be requested on a mandatory basis
if it is essential for the application process. This was at the
This is not the case with the existing scholarship program (chap. 16.2, pp. 218 – 220).
 
The supervisory authority repeatedly dealt with inquiries as to when and
under which conditions film and photo shoots in day-care centers
facilities are made and to whom they may be passed on.
In order to meet the high need for advice, the BlnBDI has in common
the brochure with the Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family
"Data protection for image, sound and video recordings. What's in the
in the day-care center?” in a fundamentally revised version
2nd edition published (chap. 4.2, p. 91).
 
Privacy at work
 
In the area of employee data protection, the BlnBDI dealt with
among other things with the so-called 360-degree feedback at the workplace
is being used in more and more young companies in particular. Included
the work performance of employees is no longer only determined by superiors
te, but by several colleagues from both higher and lower ranks
rated lower positions. Although this potentially enables
more precise assessment of the work performance of employees. the opposite
However, there is a risk that the processing of personal data
data is inadmissibly expanded. In the annual report, the supervisory
authority under what conditions such a system may be permitted
can (chap. 8.1, pp. 124 – 126).
 
Reside
 
The data protection officer had to intervene, for example, in the event of a
Property management, which increasingly uses digital keys in a property
used cards instead of physical keys. Such systems
poses significant threats to the privacy of tenants
comprehensive presence profiles can be created for them. The BlnBDI
found that the digital data processing for the tenancy is not
is necessary and such systems are therefore only used voluntarily
(Chap. 9.3, pp. 135 - 137).
 
economy and finance
 
The issue of identity abuse when ordering
gen on the internet. It is still evident that online dealers with conspicuous
abilities that indicate possible fraud are not sufficient
Provide control mechanisms to prevent identity abuse.
In addition, those affected are often asked to clarify such fraudulent
cases more difficult because they are given information about the unlawful

 



- 4 -

positions are often refused. The BlnBDI works persistently on Berli-
a company to make their ordering and dunning procedures more risk-aware
(Chap. 10.1, pp. 148 - 150).
 
The question of how far the statutory right to information about the processing
processing of one's own data is always a reason for complaints.
A particular point of contention is whether it is sufficient if responsible persons
only the categories of recipients of personal data
name - i.e. banks, authorities or service providers, or whether
Rather, all recipients are specifically named
Need to become. In the case of a complaint against a bank, the BlnBDI decided
that those responsible in principle inform the data subject in addition to the general
n categories also indicate the specific recipients of data
must (chap. 11.2, pp. 174 – 175).
 
The processing of
data from collection agencies, above all the question of when receivables
ments may be reported to credit bureaus. Basically can
creditors debt collection companies without the consent of the
persons concerned with the assertion of their claims
gene and transmit the necessary personal data
(Chap. 10.6, p. 159). As an example, the annual report explains a case in
which S-Bahn Berlin GmbH processes the personal data of a driver
guest who was found without a valid ticket to an in-
cash collection company (chap. 12.2, pp. 178 - 180).
 
A complaints procedure against a banking institution was not quite so commonplace.
tut: A customer complained to the BlnBDI because his bank repeatedly
had his credit card blocked and he suspected identity theft.
After intervention by the supervisory authority, the bank determined that the
nasty blocking by the employee of a technical service provider
had been caused to settle a family quarrel in this way.
gene wanted. The case shows: illegal manipulation of Banksys-
temen are threatened not only by attacks from outside, but also from within
(Chap. 11.3, p. 176).
 
Equally unusual was the case of one complainant about whom
a credit agency a total of 14 different dates of birth and 26 postal
had stored lic addresses. This led to a company
men wanted to collect the debts of a namesake from him. the up
The supervisory authority examined the case and admonished the credit agency, only factually
process correct data. She obligated the company to help
technical and organizational measures to ensure that improper
Current data can be corrected or deleted immediately (chap. 12.5, p. 184
– 185).
 
Traffic
 
The BlnBDI also dealt with the data protection implications
effects of the corona pandemic on people with low incomes.
Due to the closure of the Citizens’ Registration Offices, no new
en Berlin passes issued, which, for example, serve as proof of arrival
entitlement to the discounted social ticket for bus and train are required.
Instead, in the event of a check, those affected had to
present the original of the decision on the receipt of social benefits. There
such a notification contains a large number of sensitive data, the

 



- 5 -

supervisory authority approached the responsible bodies in order to
to discuss more protection-friendly alternatives (section 12.1, p. 177).
 
video surveillance
 
In a pilot phase, Deutsche Bahn wanted to use its test station in southern
kreuz camera systems for the automated detection of hazardous
test situations. The systems from three different providers should
typical hazardous situations, such as people lying on the ground,
objects or entering certain zones on the platform,
know and report to the staff in the video control center. In fact,
which generates so many false alarms or fails to recognize situations that
the results of the test operation raise serious doubts about the data protection
legal admissibility of their use (chap. 13.2, p.
187-190).
 
Tracking on websites
 
A very important topic was again the increasing tracking, i.e. the
Tracking of individual behavior on the Internet. In the meantime
it is less about cases in which no attempt was made in the first place
Consent of website visitors to analyze their online
conduct, but to ensure the effectiveness of the consent
by so-called cookie banners. Website visitors are often
chers through clever design of the consent banners
seduced by quick consent, really informed without their consent
and to have given it voluntarily, as actually required. offered
In view of the growing problems for privacy, those in
questions not only to us, but also to them
Courts will certainly be busy for a while (chap. 15.1, p. 198 -
203).
 
legislation
 
After the legislator has extended the implementation period for the adjustments to the
Berlin state law to the requirements of the European data protection
Basic Regulation had exceeded more than two years, the now
more adjustments that have been made, there are still sensitive gaps. Just in
Significant shortcomings can be identified in the area of data protection supervision.
The reformed Berlin Data Protection Act does not only restrict that
Citizens' right to information about the personal data processed
processed data to certain authorities. The parliamentarians
They also continue to withdraw their own work from any data protection
Control. There is still a lack of effective enforcement in the police sector
executive powers provided for by European law. The ones from
Expert committee for this legislative period announced evaluation of
Berlin Data Protection Act is still a long time coming (Chapter 17.1., p.
221-223).
 
In the summer, the Berlin Senate gave the key points for the long-awaited and
transparency law provided for in the coalition agreement, with which
outdated Freedom of Information Act (IFG) to be replaced
target. Unfortunately, the BlnBDI was included in the first versions of the
planned law asserted, partly massive criticism in the finally pre-
submitted draft law is not taken into account. The design looks so far-
sufficient exemptions for public institutions that
its adoption in the form presented would rather lead to a deterioration

 



- 6 -

change compared to the previous legal situation and therefore not to
a further, but a backward development of the IFG (chap. 19.2.2, p.
246-253).
 

 

