1/5

Procedure No.: PS/00206/2019

RESOLUTION: R/00394/2019

In procedure PS/00206/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to Don A.A.A., given the complaint filed by Don B.B.B. and in
virtue of the following,

FACTS

FIRST: Don B.B.B. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 18, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, motivated by
the processing of data carried out through cameras of a video surveillance system
whose owner identifies as the neighbor A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimed) installed in
***ADDRESS 1

The reasons on which the claim is based are "that for a few months the
denounced has a video-surveillance camera, which records 24 hours everything
what happens in my house, controlling who enters and who leaves, registering when I have
the open windows what I do inside my house…” (folio nº 1).

Along with the claim, it provides photos of the window behind which the

camera and a CD of recordings as evidence (Annex I).

SECOND: In view of the reported facts, in accordance with the evidence
that is available, the Data Inspection of this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data considers that the treatment of personal data that is carried out by the
denounced through the chambers to which the complaint refers, does not meet the
conditions imposed by the regulations on data protection, for which reason the
opening of this sanctioning procedure.

THIRD: On 03/12/19, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the party
denounce, without any response having been given in relation to the "facts"
transferred, appearing as "notified" in the computer system of this body.

FOURTH: On July 22, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to submit this
warning procedure PS/00206/2019. This agreement was notified to
denounced.

FIFTH: The database of this organization was consulted (10/08/19) and has not been received
any allegation in relation to the facts that have been transferred.

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 02/18/19 a claim is received at this Agency based on the
following reasons:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

 "That for a few months the defendant has had a video camera-
surveillance, which records 24 hours everything that happens in my house, controlling who
enters and who leaves, recording when I have the windows open what I do inside
of my house…” (folio nº 1).

Second. It is identified as the main person in charge of the facility Mr. A.A.A.,
which is pointed out by the complainant as the main person responsible.

Third. It has not been possible to determine in his case what is observed with the cameras in
question, that is, whether or not they are operational.

Fourth. It has not been possible to verify the installation of an informative poster in the visible area,
as the accused party did not make any allegation.

Fifth. The database of this body was consulted on 08/10/19, there is no record
any allegation in relation to the facts described.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In this case, the claim dated 02/18/19 is examined through
which translates as the main fact the following:

“Installation of a video-surveillance camera by the neighboring neighbor towards me

parcel” (folio nº 1).

The facts described may imply an affectation of the content of art. 5.1 c)
RGPD, having installed a video surveillance camera that can affect the
privacy of the accused party.

Individuals can install video-surveillance cameras, although they are responsible
that they comply with current legislation.

With this type of device, it is generally intended to protect property
property, in the face of hypothetical attacks and/thefts with force on things, although
may be used for different purposes, always within the current legal framework.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

These types of devices cannot be used to obtain images of
spaces of free transit and/or public space, and must be oriented
Preferably towards your private area.

An informative poster must be available in a visible area indicating that it is
of a video-surveillance zone, indicating the main person in charge of the "treatment of the
images".

III

For informational purposes only, it is worth remembering some of the requirements that must be
comply with the processing of images through a video surveillance system to be
in accordance with current regulations:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space since the treatment of images in places
public can only be carried out, where appropriate, by the Forces and Bodies of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the persons who are
find.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in article
12 of the RGPD 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the terms referred to both in the
cited article, as in articles 13 and 14 of said rule, resulting from the application
-by not contradicting the provisions of the aforementioned Regulation-, the manner provided in the
Article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, on the Processing of Personal Data for the Purpose of
Surveillance through Camera Systems or Video Cameras (Instruction 1/2006, of 8
of November, of the Spanish Data Protection Agency).

Specifically, it must:

Place in the video-monitored areas, at least one badge
1.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in spaces
open as closed.

In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the informative sign above
mentioned must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided in
these precepts.

Keep available to those affected the information to which

two.
refers to the aforementioned Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

IV

In accordance with the evidence available in this
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant has installed a camera
of video-surveillance that the complainant manifests "captures his private property" and
sections of public road.

Known facts could constitute an infringement of the content

of art. 5.1 c) RGPD, transcribed above

Article 83 section 5 of the RGPD provides the following:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

v

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, it is taken into account that it is an individual, that the
images provided by the complainant have been obtained from judicial headquarters, as well as
the fact of not having made any statement about the system in question and
the reasons for the recording, which justifies a sanction of Warning.

You must explain to this Agency if you have a camera, if the images
obtained with the same have been provided in court (explaining the reason),
providing, where appropriate, the court ruling, as well as proving that it has a cartel
information in a visible area indicating the person responsible for the file.

Finally, it should be noted that this Agency is not going to assess images that
where appropriate, they have been provided in court as evidence, as the Judge

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

competent the only one with authority to rule on the validity or illegality of
the same and the circumstances in which they could have been obtained.

According to what was stated,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.- NOTICE (PS/00206/2019) to D. A.A.A. for violation of art. 5.1 c) RGPD, to
have a disproportionate imaging device,
typified in art. 83.5a) RGPD, being punishable in accordance with art. 58.2
b) GDPR

2.- REQUIRE the defendant D. A.A.A. so that within a month from this
act of notification:

-Inform this Agency about the device installed, indicating the
technical characteristics of the camera(s) (even if it is a camera
simulated, etc.)

-Prove the availability of an informative poster, indicating the person in charge of the

treatment in your case of the images.

-Contribute screen impression of what, in your case, is observed with the camera
in question (indicating the parts that are private property on a site plan).

3.- NOTIFY this Agreement to A.A.A. and REPORT the result of the
present performances to Don B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the
LOPD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, the interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

