 

Anu Talus 
Chair of the European Data Protection Board 

 

 
European Union Agency for Cybersecurity 
Agamemnonos 14,  
Chalandri 151231, 
Greece 
 
 
 
 
Brussels, 16 July 2024 
 

by email only  
 
Subject: EU cybersecurity certification scheme on cloud services supporting compliance to GDPR 
and cooperation options regarding the eHealth sector - EDPB reply letter 
 

In your letter of 11 March 2022, you had proposed to work together “to draw up, for instance, 
common cybersecurity  requirements  related to data protection into a dedicated extension profile, 
and guidance relative to data protection for both CSPs and cloud customers”. As a follow up, between 
September  2022  and  January  2024,  ENISA  representatives  participated  in  EDPB  experts’  subgroup 
meetings to discuss the matter, and they responded to a questionnaire sent by the EDPB. I would like 
to thank you for this fruitful collaboration.  

The EDPB finds that several important issues related to the links between the cybersecurity 
risk  assessment  in  the  European  Cybersecurity Certification  Scheme  for  Cloud Services  (EUCS)  and 
personal  data  protection  risk  assessment  need  to  be  addressed.  Although  the  EUCS  necessitates 
compliance with the law, it is not clear how, for example, the assurance levels of EUCS scheme may 
be mapped with usage scenarios involving personal data - which in turn poses questions on whether 
adoption  of  cybersecurity  certification  suffices  to  ensure  appropriate  security  measures  for  a 
certification pursuant to the art. 42 of the GPDR.    

The EDPB suggests to work together with ENISA by establishing a joint ad-hoc working group with the 
task to explore and assess the following possible objectives:  

-  Draw up guidance relative to data protection for both CSPs and cloud customers (e.g. map the 
assurance levels of EUCS scheme with usage scenarios involving personal data, or clarify that 
some of them can be flagged as generally non-sufficient for the processing of personal data).  
-  Assist  DPAs,  GDPR  Certification  scheme  owners,  or  GDPR  Codes  of  Conduct  owners  to 

articulate GDPR tools (certification, code of conduct, etc.) with the EUCS scheme  

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

-  Develop  a  risk  assessment  methodology  in order  to assess  the  circumstances  in  which the 
EUCS assurance levels escalate along with the data protection risks, and to check whether the 
security  measures  envisaged  in  each  of  the  EUCS  assurance  levels  mitigate  (and  to  what 
extent) the associated data protection risks 

-  Create an EUCS dedicated extension profile covering GDPR related additional requirements  

We  are  therefore  open  to  discuss  and  explore  with  you  the  appropriate  shape  and  form  of  this 
collaboration. 

Yours sincerely, 

Anu Talus 

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

