Legal Advisory Office  
N/REF: 0043/2019  

The inquiry raises the applicability of data protection regulations to the system that the consulting entity intends to develop, consisting of the processing of the signal emitted by mobile terminals, which identify their IMSI - International Mobile Subscriber Identity - as a unique identifier of the mobile phone stored in the SIM, with the aim of knowing the routes or movements that these devices make within a specific location. This processing would be carried out using a system of antennas that would serve to triangulate the signal strength and access the position of mobile phones.  

I  
The fundamental question raised is to determine whether the system described in the inquiry involves the processing of personal data, as defined by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which repeals Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR), and therefore whether the indicated regulations should apply or not.  

First of all, it should be noted that Article 4.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, defines personal data as “any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural, or social identity of that natural person.”  

In turn, according to the content of the “Definition” in point 2 of Article 4 of the GDPR, for there to be processing of personal data, it is required to carry out “any operation or set of operations performed on personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated means or not, such as collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment, combination, restriction, erasure or destruction.” For its part, the definition of “filing system” is contained in section 6 of Article 4, which refers to “any structured set of personal data, accessible according to specific criteria, whether centralized, decentralized, or dispersed in a functional or geographical manner.”  

Sections 1 and 2 of Article 2 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the Guarantee of Digital Rights - LOPDPGDD - “Scope of application of Titles I to IX and Articles 89 to 94,” establish that:  
“1. The provisions of Titles I to IX and Articles 89 to 94 of this organic law apply to any total or partially automated processing of personal data, as well as to the non-automated processing of personal data contained or intended to be included in a filing system. (…)”  

For its part, Article 64 b) of the Regulation on the conditions for the provision of electronic communications services, the universal service, and the protection of users, approved by Royal Decree 424/2005, of April 15, includes the original definition of location data from Directive 2002/58/EC, stating that they are “b) Location data: any data processed in an electronic communications network that indicates the geographical position of the terminal equipment of a user of a publicly available electronic communications service. (…)”  

As stated in the inquiry, it involves deploying a triangulation system for the signal emitted by mobile devices - with identification of their IMSI - in order to know the physical position of the terminals, counting the number of mobile devices accessing a specific environment, the “frequency of visit,” and taking note of the routes taken by these devices.  

Well, the issues raised have already been addressed in previous reports from this Agency - 0310/2010 and 0060/2011, both dated June 3, 2011, 0149/2014, dated July 30, 2014, and 0175/2015, dated March 3, 2016 - and in opinions from the Working Group of Data Protection Authorities, established by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC.  

Reiterating that the topic has been addressed by the Working Group of Data Protection Authorities, established by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC, it must be based on Opinion 4/2007 on the concept of personal data, adopted on June 20 (document WP 136), which recalls that it is possible to speak of the existence of personal data even in cases where there is no singular identification of the data subject, given that:
Legal Office
“(...) it is worth noting that, although identification through name and surname is the most common practice, this information may not be necessary in all cases to identify a person. This may occur when other 'identifiers' are used to single someone out. Indeed, computerized personal data files usually assign a unique identifier to registered individuals to avoid any confusion between two people included in the file. Also, on the Internet, traffic control tools allow for easy identification of a machine's behavior and, therefore, that of the user behind it. Thus, the different pieces that make up an individual's personality are combined in order to attribute certain decisions to them. Without even requesting the name and address of the person, it is possible to include them in a category based on socioeconomic, psychological, philosophical, or other criteria, and attribute certain decisions to them since the individual's point of contact (a computer) makes it unnecessary to know their identity in the strict sense. In other words, the ability to identify a person no longer necessarily equates to the capacity to know their name and surname. The definition of personal data reflects this fact. (...)
National data protection authorities have faced cases where the data controller argued that only dispersed information had been processed, without references to names or other direct identifiers, and contended that the data should not be considered personal and therefore not subject to data protection regulations. Yet, the processing of that information only made sense if it allowed for the identification of specific individuals and their processing in a certain manner. In these cases, where the purpose of the processing involves the identification of persons, it can be assumed that the data controller or any other person involved has or may have means that 'can be reasonably used' to identify the data subject. In fact, to claim that natural persons are not identifiable when the purpose of the processing is precisely to identify them would be a flagrant contradiction. Therefore, it must be considered that the information refers to identifiable natural persons and the processing must be subject to data protection regulations.”
And regarding the possibility of identifying the data subject, the document also reminds us of the following: “On the other hand, this is a dynamic test, so the degree of technological advancement at the time of processing and its possible development during the period in which the data will be processed must be taken into account. Identification may not be feasible today with the set of means that can be reasonably used at present. If it is intended that the data be retained for one month, it may not be feasible to advance the identification so that it is completed within the 'lifetime' of the information, and therefore, that information should not be considered personal data. However, if the intended retention period is ten years, the data controller must consider the possibility that identification may occur after nine years, at which point it would acquire the category of personal data. It is necessary for the system to be capable of adapting to advancements.
Legal Office
technological as they occur and to introduce appropriate technical and organizational measures in due time.”
Finally, regarding the processing of the dynamic IP address assigned by the operator by other entities, the document also considers it possible to understand that it has the status of personal data, stating that: 
“The Working Group considers IP addresses as data about an identifiable person. In this sense, it has declared that ‘Internet access providers and local network administrators can reasonably identify Internet users to whom they have assigned IP addresses, as they systematically record in a file the date, time, duration, and dynamic IP address assigned to the Internet user. The same can be said for Internet service providers that maintain a log file on the HTTP server. In these cases, there is no doubt that we can speak of personal data in the sense of letter a) of Article 2 of the Directive.’ 
Especially in those cases where the processing of IP addresses is carried out with the aim of identifying computer users (for example, that carried out by copyright holders to sue users for infringement of intellectual property rights), the data controller foresees that the ‘means that can be reasonably used’ to identify individuals can be obtained, for example, through the competent courts (otherwise, the collection of information makes no sense), and therefore the information must be considered as personal data.”
And more specifically in relation to the matter at hand, this opinion is distinguished in relation to mobile phone devices that allow the location of the data subject in its Opinion 13/2011 on geolocation services in smart mobile devices (document WP185). 
In that document, after recalling the conclusions already reached in its previous Opinion 5/2005 (WP115), from which it follows that “since the location data obtained from base stations refers to an identified or identifiable natural person, these are subject to the provisions regarding the protection of personal data established in Directive 95/46/EC of October 24, 1995,” it concludes, regarding the application of the aforementioned Directive, the following:
“According to the Data Protection Directive, personal data is understood to mean any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (the ‘data subject’); any person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or one or more specific elements, will be considered identifiable.”
Legal Office
characteristics of their physical, physiological, psychological, economic, cultural, or social identity - Article 2 (a) of the Directive. 
Recital 26 of the Directive pays special attention to the term "identifiable" when it states: “considering that, to determine whether a person is identifiable, one must consider the set of means that may reasonably be used by the data controller or by any other person to identify that person.” 
Recital 27 of the Directive outlines the broad scope of protection: “considering that the scope of this protection should not depend, in fact, on the techniques used, as the contrary would lead to serious risks of evasion;” 
In its Opinion 4/2007 on the concept of personal data, the Working Party has provided extensive guidance on the definition of personal data. 
Smart mobile devices 
Smart mobile devices are inextricably linked to natural persons. There is normally direct and indirect identifiability. 
Firstly, telecommunications operators that provide access to mobile Internet and through the GSM network usually have a record with the name, address, and banking details of each customer, along with various unique device numbers, such as the IMEI and IMSI. 
Secondly, the purchase of additional software for the device (applications or apps) often requires a credit card number, thereby enriching the combination of unique numbers and location data with directly identifiable data. 
Indirect identifiability can be achieved through the combination of the unique device numbers, along with one or more calculated locations. 
Each smart mobile device has at least one unique identifier, the MAC address. The device may have other unique identification numbers that the operating system developer may add. These identifiers can be transmitted and subsequently processed in the context of geolocation services. It is true that the location of a specific device can be calculated very precisely, especially when different geolocation infrastructures are combined. This location can point to a home or an employer. It is possible, especially through repeated observations, to identify the owner of the device. 
When considering the means available for identifiability, advancements must be taken into account as people tend to disclose more and more personal location data on the Internet, for example, by posting the location of their home or workplace along with other identifiable data. This type of disclosure can also occur without their knowledge when other people geo-tag them. Thanks to this advancement, it becomes easier to link a location or a pattern of behavior to a specific person. 
Furthermore, according to Opinion 4/2007 on the concept of personal data, it should be noted that a unique identifier, in the context described above, allows for tracking a user of a specific device and, therefore, allows for "singling out" the user even if their true name is unknown.” 
That is to say, it is crystal clear that the MAC address is personal data, and its processing must be subject to this regulation. Specifically regarding location data, this has been reiterated by the same Article 29 Working Group of Directive 1995/46/EC in its Opinion 2/2013 on applications of smart devices; both in the introduction and among the personal data processed by the applications that can significantly impact the private lives of users and other individuals, location is included. 
II 
In the same vein as the Article 29 Working Party of Directive 1995/46/EC, this Agency has already addressed the issue in the two reports of June 3, 2011, previously mentioned, studying a system also based on the geolocation of customers, and stated that: 
“From all the above, it seems to follow that the joint processing of data related to a mobile terminal, consisting of the TMSI (which could be likened to a dynamic IP address), the MAC address, and the IMSI code (which could be equated to a sort of MAC address of the user's SIM card), involves the collection of sufficient information to understand that such processing is subject to the provisions of Directive 95/46/EC and, therefore, to Organic Law 15/1999. 
(…) 
“In summary, from what is indicated in the consultation, it does not follow that the consultant, to a greater extent the broader their scope of action, will be able to know the three identifying data of the terminal and the user's SIM card, as well as their consumption habits, so that if it were possible to associate the holder with additional information that would allow for greater identification, the processing could undermine the guarantees of their fundamental rights to the protection of personal data. 
Thus, it would only be possible to avoid the application of data protection legislation if there were an absolute dissociation of the TMS, IMSI, and MAC address data from the user's terminal and that such information could in no case be subject to retention by the consultant; that is, if an anonymization procedure were to occur.
Legal Office
such that it would be irreversible for the consultant to know what data is hidden under the assigned random number. 
Consequently, the assignment of such a number should derive from the application of an algorithm that combines the three specified data points and whose application results in complete irreversibility, with none of the data listed in the inquiry being retained by the consultant, applying the algorithm immediately upon receiving the signal emitted by the mobile terminal. 
Certainly, in that case, the consultant could still have information regarding the behavioral habits of the mobile terminal holder, but it would not be referenced to data that could allow the identification of such a user, but rather to a data point derived from the application of an irreversible algorithm, which would allow for the consideration that in the proposed scenario, a dissociation procedure would have been effectively applied in the terms established in Article 3 f) of Organic Law 15/1999, which defines it as “Any processing of personal data in such a way that the information obtained cannot be associated with an identified or identifiable person.” 
That said, security measures should also be foreseen to prevent access to the information by personnel outside the consultant, which seems to derive from what is indicated in the inquiry and access to the information only in an aggregated manner, as noted therein. 
Furthermore, the requirement by the consultant for client entities to establish information devices, which must be clear and visible, is considered appropriate (...). 
In any case, the issuance of this report has been based on the consideration that the only data captured and that, according to the indications included, must be subject to an irreversible dissociation procedure at the time of capture are those mentioned in the inquiry, without the system collecting any data related to the traffic generated or received by the terminal that had its WiFi device activated.” 
As we also stated in the report of April 29, 2010, “given that location data always refers to an identified or identifiable natural person, they constitute personal data, and their processing is subject to the provisions contained in Organic Law 15/1999 and its implementing regulations.” 
This conclusion is clearly extrapolable to the current regulatory scenario, under the definitions previously transcribed, contained in the General Data Protection Regulation -GDPR- and in Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5 -LOPDGDD-. 
As stated in the inquiry, in the consultant's opinion, the IMSI “could even not be considered a personal data since it is an alphanumeric key that, by itself, reveals nothing but a succession of numbers that has...
Legal Office

to be completed with other data in the exclusive possession of the telecommunications operator.”  
However, as has been stated, the data processing in question does not prevent the interested parties from being identifiable, since the information obtained and processed by the consulting party will not be previously anonymized, that is, absolutely dissociated from the personal information of the affected individuals.  
Thus, following the definition of “data processing” in Article 4 of the GDPR, it is inferred that only when the information containing personal data has been subjected to a prior dissociation procedure will the provisions of said Regulation not apply, rendering its provisions regarding the “anonymized” information subject to processing ineffective. In summary, data protection regulations do not apply to processing subjected to a prior dissociation procedure, but do apply in the event that such dissociation does not occur.  
In Recital (26) of the GDPR, the interpretation of what is to be understood as anonymized information is contained, clearly delineating this concept from that of “pseudonymization” of data, namely:  
“(26) The principles of data protection must apply to all information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. Pseudonymized personal data, which could be attributed to a natural person by the use of additional information, must be considered information about an identifiable natural person. To determine whether a natural person is identifiable, all means reasonably likely to be used by the data controller or any other person to identify the natural person, directly or indirectly, must be taken into account. To determine whether there is a reasonable likelihood that means will be used to identify a natural person, all objective factors must be considered, such as the costs and time required for identification, taking into account both the technology available at the time of processing and technological advancements. Therefore, the principles of data protection should not apply to anonymous information, that is, information that does not relate to an identified or identifiable natural person, nor to data that has been rendered anonymous in such a way that the data subject is no longer identifiable, or ceases to be so. Consequently, this Regulation does not affect the processing of such anonymous information, including for statistical or research purposes.”  
In light of what we have just indicated, for an anonymization procedure to be considered sufficient for the purposes of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, it will be necessary that the application of
Legal Office
said procedure makes it impossible to identify a specific data with its
specific subject. In this sense, the international provisions regulating the protection of personal data consider that the affected individual will not be determinable when their identification requires a disproportionate effort that makes it practically impossible to identify the natural person who is the owner of the personal data previously processed by the controller. 
In conclusion, from what is indicated in the consultation, it is inferred that the data processed by the consulting entity will not be subjected to a dissociation process, therefore they must be considered personal data. Consequently, since the personal data will continue to identify the affected individuals in some way, the regulations governing the protection of personal data will clearly apply to the information subject to processing.
According to the account provided by the consultant, in the case subject to consultation, there will be a counting of devices, an analysis of their trajectory and redundancy, and an examination of said trajectory carried out in a specific area, such as a shopping center, an airport, or a transport hub. 

However, there is no reference to the analysis of the risks that the processing entails for the rights and freedoms nor to the adoption of technical and organizational measures whose main objective is to ensure adequate compliance with data protection regulations.
At this point, it is necessary to take into account the special risks posed by the processing of location data, regarding which the Article 29 Working Party has been insisting since its Opinion 5/2005 on the use of geolocation data with a view to providing value-added services, in which it already pointed out that in recent years there has been a spectacular increase in the use of location data, due to the “exponential increase in the use of satellite location data, which can currently be very precise and valuable, especially concerning assistance to people in distress” and to “the unprecedented spread of mobile telephony, thanks to which each user always carries a device through which they can be located.”
Likewise, in the aforementioned Opinion 13/2011 on geolocation services in smart mobile devices, which clarifies the legal framework applicable to geolocation services available on smart mobile devices (or generated by them) that can connect to the Internet and are equipped with location sensors such as GPS, the Article 29 Working Party highlighted that “In general, the value of information increases when it is linked to a location, and any location can be linked to any type of information: financial data, health data, or consumer behavior data. With the rapid technological development and the widespread dissemination of smart mobile devices, a new category of location-based services is being developed.”
And in Opinion 8/2014 on the recent evolution of the Internet of Things, it warned about its multiple risks:
“In fact, an IoT not subject to controls could evolve into the development of a form of surveillance of individuals that could be considered illegal under EU Law. The IoT also raises significant concerns, as security failures can pose significant risks to the privacy of individuals whose data is processed in these contexts.
For example, bodily objects that are kept very close to the individual make it possible to have access to other identifiers, such as MAC addresses or other devices that could be useful for generating a digital footprint that allows tracking the location of the individual. The collection of multiple MAC addresses from multiple sensors will help create unique digital footprints and more stable identifiers that stakeholders in the IoT can attribute to specific individuals. These identifiers and digital footprints could be used for various purposes, including location analysis or analysis of movement patterns of groups and individuals.
This trend must be combined with the possibility of later combining that data with data from other systems (for example, closed-circuit television or Internet records).
In such circumstances, some of the data obtained through sensors are particularly vulnerable to re-identification attacks.
In light of the above, it is clear that remaining anonymous and protecting privacy in the IoT will become increasingly difficult. The development of the IoT raises significant concerns related to data protection and privacy in this context.”

III
In our previous reports -0310/2010 and 0060/2011, both dated June 3, 2011, 0149/2014, dated July 30, 2014, and 0175/2015, dated March 3, 2016-, it is recalled that the right to data protection constitutes a fundamental right, so before adopting a restrictive measure of the same, such as the data processing referred to in the consultation, the proportionality of such a measure must be analyzed.
Legal Office
Currently, Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR enshrines the "principle of data minimization," meaning that only those personal data processing activities that are adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which such data are processed are covered. 

In this regard, it is pertinent to recall what the Constitutional Court stated in its Judgment 186/2000, which declared that no fundamental right is absolute "and may yield to constitutionally relevant interests, provided that the limitation it undergoes is revealed as necessary to achieve the legitimate purpose envisaged, proportionate to achieve it, and, in any case, respects the essential content of the right" (SSTC 57/1994, FJ 6, and 143/1994, FJ 6, among others).

From this, it follows that the processing of a specific personal data, in this case, location data, must be proportionate to the purpose that motivates it. Thus, if that purpose could be achieved by carrying out an activity other than the aforementioned processing, without altering or harming that purpose, the latter activity should be chosen, given that the processing of personal data implies, as our Constitutional Court enshrines in Judgment 292/2000, of November 30, a limitation of the person's right to control information related to themselves.

From the terms in which the inquiry has been formulated, we can only conclude that the processing of the IMSI - International Mobile Subscriber Identity - of a mobile phone constitutes the processing of personal data and must therefore comply with this regulation. It should be remembered once again that the GDPR has brought about a substantial change in the way the guarantee of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data is approached, revolving around the principle of proactive responsibility or accountability, so that it is the data controller who, through the instruments regulated in the GDPR itself, such as risk analysis or data protection impact assessment, and assisted, where appropriate, by the data protection officer, must ensure the protection of that right, adequately documenting all decisions made.

Therefore, it must be the data controller who, after a detailed analysis of the situation, in the terms that will be subsequently outlined, must assess and ensure compliance with the personal data protection regulations and the principles governing them, with special reference in this case to the principles of "lawfulness, fairness, and transparency" of Article 5.1.a), the "purpose limitation" principle of Article 5.1.b), the "data minimization" principle of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, the "storage limitation" principle of Article 5.1.e), as well as the aforementioned proactive responsibility principle of Article 5.2.
Legal Office
especially taking into account, in the present case, the data protection
by design and by default referred to in Article 25.
However, in order to determine the application of this regulation and
the responsibilities of the different parties involved in the processing,
it would be necessary to first determine the role played by each of them and who determines the purposes and means of the processing. In this regard, the GDPR considers in Article 4 as the "data controller" or "controller": the natural or legal person, public authority, service, or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing; and as the "data processor" or "processor": the natural or legal person, public authority, service, or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the data controller.
With the information provided, it cannot be determined, a priori, whether the
consultant will be considered a controller or processor, as it will depend on the involvement they have in the processing and how their relationship with the holders of the centers where the localization system is installed is structured, in order to determine whether they contribute to the determination of the purposes and means or if they limit themselves to processing the data following the instructions of the controller, without using it for their own purposes or, even, if they do not perform such functions and limit themselves to developing the necessary technology for the processing.
Likewise, it is unknown whether there may be other parties involved, such as processors or sub-processors, who participate in the analysis of the data or in its storage.
In any case, regardless of the position occupied by each of the parties involved in the processing, all must ensure that it complies with the personal data protection regulations, as stated in Recital 78 of the GDPR:
The protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data requires the adoption of
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure compliance
with the requirements of this Regulation. In order to demonstrate compliance with this Regulation, the data controller must adopt internal policies and implement measures that comply in particular with the principles of data protection by design and by default. Such measures could consist, among others, of minimizing the processing of personal data, pseudonymizing personal data as soon as possible, providing transparency regarding the functions and processing of personal data, allowing data subjects to monitor the processing of data and enabling the data controller to create and improve security elements. When developing, designing, selecting, and using applications, services, and products that are based on the processing of personal data or that process personal data to fulfill their function, producers of products, services, and applications should be encouraged to take into account the right to data protection when developing and designing these products, services, and applications, and to ensure, with due regard to the state of the art, that controllers and processors are able to fulfill their obligations regarding data protection. The principles of data protection by design and by default must also be taken into account in the context of public contracts.
IV
Starting with the legitimacy of the processing, data protection regulations contemplate different scenarios that may give rise to the processing of personal data. Specifically, according to Article 6 – "Lawfulness of processing" – of the GDPR, among others, such processing is lawful and legitimate when:
“1. The processing shall be lawful only if at least one of the following conditions is met:
a) the data subject has given consent to the processing of their personal data for one or more specific purposes; 
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or for the implementation at the request of the data subject of pre-contractual measures; 
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject; 
d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person; 
e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller; 
f) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that such interests are not overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data, in particular when the data subject is a child. 
The provision in paragraph f) of the first subparagraph shall not apply to processing carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”
Legal Office
Consequently, the processing of location data will require being based on one of the grounds set forth in the aforementioned provision, which implies that, in the event that the data controller has not obtained the consent of the affected parties, they should assess whether the legitimate interest referred to in letter f) applies.

Based on the above, this Agency considers that, in general, the processing of location data requires the consent of the affected party. This is the criterion followed by Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 12, 2002, concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on Privacy and Electronic Communications), as recalled by the Article 29 Working Party in the aforementioned Opinion 5/2005 on the use of geolocation data: “given that the processing of this data is a particularly sensitive matter as it relates to the essential issue of the free movement of individuals in an anonymous manner, the European legislator, taking into account the considerations of the European data protection authorities, has adopted specific rules that establish the obligation to obtain the consent of users or subscribers before proceeding with the processing of the location data necessary to provide a value-added service and to inform users or subscribers of the conditions of such processing (Article 9 of Directive 2002/58/EC of July 12, 2002).”

This obligation is reflected in the national transposition legislation of the Directive, specifically, by Article 48.2.c) of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General Telecommunications Law, which states that: 
“Regarding the protection of personal data and privacy in relation to traffic data and location data other than traffic data, end users of electronic communications services shall have the following rights: c) That the processing of their location data other than traffic data shall only proceed when they have been anonymized or prior to their informed consent and only to the extent and for the time necessary for the provision, where applicable, of value-added services, with unequivocal knowledge of the data that will be subject to processing, the purpose and duration thereof, and the value-added service that will be provided. End users shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any time and with immediate effect for the processing of location data other than traffic data.”

In this case, the aforementioned Directive does not apply to the processing proposed by the consulting party, as in an identical case, the then National Commission of Telecommunications informed this Agency that it was not a service of electronic communications, as stated.
Legal Office
is included in the aforementioned Report 60/2011. In this regard, Opinion 13/2011
on geolocation services in smart mobile devices already indicated that “The Directive on the protection of privacy and electronic communications (2002/58/EC, amended by Directive 2009/136/EC) only applies to the processing of data from base stations by public electronic communication services and networks (telecommunications operators).”
However, given the intrusion that geolocation entails on the fundamental right to data protection, this Agency considers that consent is equally required, in general, under the GDPR, as long as the processing is aimed at the identification, directly or indirectly, of the individual. This is the same criterion that the Article 29 Working Party understood to be applicable to providers of information society services in the aforementioned Opinion 13/2011, “Given the sensitivity of processing location data or patterns, prior informed consent is also the main factor applicable to legitimize the processing of data concerning the processing of the locations of a smart mobile device in the context of information society services.”
V
In relation to “legitimate interest” and its application as a legitimizing basis for the processing of personal data, Recital (47) of the GDPR states that:
“The legitimate interest of a data controller, including that of a controller to whom personal data may be communicated, or of a third party, may constitute a legal basis for processing, provided that the interests or the rights and freedoms of the data subject do not prevail, taking into account the reasonable expectations of the data subjects based on their relationship with the controller. Such legitimate interest could arise, for example, when there is a relevant and appropriate relationship between the data subject and the controller, such as in situations where the data subject is a customer or is in the service of the controller. In any case, the existence of a legitimate interest would require a meticulous assessment, including whether a data subject can reasonably foresee, at the time and in the context of the collection of personal data, that processing for such purpose may occur.
In particular, the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject could prevail over the interests of the data controller when processing personal data in circumstances where the data subject does not reasonably expect further processing to take place. Since it is up to the legislator to establish by law the legal basis for the processing of personal data by public authorities, this legal basis should not apply to processing carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions. The processing of personal data strictly necessary for the prevention of fraud also constitutes a legitimate interest of the data controller in question. The processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes may be considered as carried out for legitimate interest.”
In accordance with these provisions, it will be the responsibility of each of the controllers

of the processing of the signal received by the devices for capturing and analyzing the IMSI code to analyze the concurrence of the aforementioned interest. For these purposes, it will be the responsibility of these controllers to provide evidence of the “balancing test” required in relation to the concurrence of the legitimizing basis of “legitimate interest,” within the framework of the proportionality assessment inherent to the application of this legal basis for the processing of personal data.
Likewise, the controllers of the processing – that is, those who install the devices for capturing and analyzing the IMSI code in their establishments – must ensure full respect for the rights of those affected by the processing, and implement the necessary safeguards to comply with their obligations regarding the protection of personal data.
As stated in the consultation, the company is interested in knowing the routes or movements made by mobile devices within the establishment to account for them, determining the frequency of visits and the itineraries followed by the devices, for the purpose of carrying out marketing activities.
In Opinion 6/2014, of April 9, on the concept of legitimate interest of the data controller, from the working group established by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC -WP 217-, various guidelines and orientations are incorporated regarding the concurrence of “legitimate interest,” as well as the necessary safeguards in attention to the respect and guarantee of the rights of those affected by this type of processing.
Within the framework of these safeguards, the requirement for the “balancing test” between the legitimate interest of the data controller or any third parties to whom the data are communicated and the interests or fundamental rights of the data subject stands out.
The analysis inherent to the “balancing test” requires the complete consideration of a series of factors, in order to ensure that the interests and fundamental rights of those affected are duly taken into account. At the same time, it is a modifiable test, which
Legal Office
can vary from simple to complex. The factors that must be considered when conducting such a balancing test will include:
- The nature and source of the legitimate interest, and whether the processing of data is necessary for the exercise of a fundamental right, is in the public interest, or benefits from the recognition of the affected community;
- The impact on the data subject and their reasonable expectations regarding what will happen to their data, as well as the nature of the data and how it will be processed;
- The additional safeguards that could limit undue impact on the data subject, such as data minimization, privacy protection technologies, increased transparency, the general and unconditional right to opt-out, and data portability.
Therefore, only in cases where, as a result of the balancing test, the interests and fundamental rights of the affected individuals do not prevail, can processing be carried out on the legal basis of Article 6.1(f) of the GDPR.
On the other hand, an adequate assessment of the balance under the "balancing test"—sometimes facilitating the possibility of opting out of processing—may lead to other alternatives or advise resorting to other legal bases grounded in "consent" or the execution of a "contract."
In conclusion, regarding the guarantee of the rights of the affected individuals, Opinion 6/2014, of April 9, specifically refers to the right to object, stating the following:
"What happens if the data subject exercises their right to object?
- When only a conditional right to opt-out is established as a guarantee: if the data subject opposes the processing, it must be ensured that there is an adequate and easy-to-use mechanism to reassess the balance concerning the affected person and to interrupt the processing of their data if this new assessment shows that their interests prevail.
- When an unconditional right to opt-out is established as an additional guarantee: if the data subject opposes the processing, it must be ensured that their decision is respected, without the need for further assessment or measures."
17

                                                                  Legal Office
In this same vein, the European Data Protection Supervisor, in its Opinion 7/2015, Meeting the challenges of big data, considers it good practice to provide data subjects with an opt-out option when relying on legitimate interest:
Especially in borderline cases where the balance between the legitimate interests of the controller and the rights and interests of the data subjects are difficult to strike, a well-designed and workable mechanism for opt-out, while not necessarily providing data subjects with all the elements that would satisfy a valid consent under European data protection law, could play an important role in safeguarding the rights and interests of the individuals.
On the other hand, in Opinion 6/2014, of April 9, regarding the concept of legitimate interest of the data controller, from the Article 29 Working Party, reference is also made to marketing activities as one of the scenarios in which it would be appropriate to consider the possible existence of a legitimate interest. Thus, in its section "What makes an interest legitimate or illegitimate?" this type of activity is mentioned as an example for consideration, namely:
"As an example: data controllers may have a legitimate interest in knowing their customers' preferences so that this allows them to better personalize their offers and ultimately provide products and services that better meet the needs and desires of their customers. In light of this, Article 7(f) may constitute an appropriate legal basis in some types of marketing activities, both online and offline, provided that adequate safeguards are in place (including, among others, a viable mechanism that allows for opposition to processing under Article 14(b), (...).
However, this does not mean that data controllers can rely on Article 7(f) as a legal basis to improperly monitor their customers' online and offline activities, combine vast amounts of data about them, coming from different sources, that were initially collected in other contexts and for different purposes, and create—and, for example, through the intermediation of data brokers, also trade with them—complex profiles of customers' personalities and preferences without their knowledge, without a viable mechanism for opposition, not to mention the absence of informed consent. Such profiling activity is likely to represent a significant intrusion into the customer's privacy and, when this occurs, the interests and rights of the data subject will prevail over the interest of the data controller."
As stated, it will be up to each of the controllers who proceed to process the signal from the devices of
18
Legal Office
capturing the IMSI code, the assessment of the concurrence of "legitimate interest" in relation to the implementation of the system in their establishments and the corresponding balancing test.

Thus, it will be the responsibility of each of these controllers - holders of the activity and/or of the establishments open to the public - to carry out the aforementioned assessment, since the invocation of "legitimate interest" will affect the natural persons who access their business premises as customers or potential customers.

In the described context, it will be unavoidable for these controllers to adopt the necessary guarantees to ensure the prevalence of the aforementioned "legitimate interest" over the rights of the affected individuals, as otherwise, such processing will not be lawful.

Consequently, the carrying out of marketing activities referred to in this report based on the provisions of Article 6.1 f) of the GDPR - legitimate interest - which would lead to the processing of the location data of electronic devices with the capture of the IMSI code, could only be deemed lawful if it is implemented accompanied by the safeguards, guarantees, and technical and organizational measures, including those related to information security, that are necessary, preceded - in any case - by the necessary balancing inherent to the concurrence of the "legitimate interest" of the controllers of the processing in the terms set out in this report, not corresponding to this Agency to pronounce, a priori, on the lawfulness of the same, which will be subject to the existence and intensity of such guarantees.

However, some general criteria can be anticipated that must be taken into account by the controllers, without prejudice to those measures that the controller will have to implement based on the management of the risk to the rights and freedoms of the affected individuals in accordance with the analyses to which we will refer later:

- Measures must be adopted to ensure the early anonymization of the data.
- The scope in which the wifi tracking is carried out must be assessed, paying special attention to the existence of a commercial relationship, so that it concerns customers or potential customers, avoiding, in any case, its use in public spaces.
- The areas in which tracking is conducted must be limited and defined, avoiding control of movements in very broad areas, as well as in those that may imply excessive interference in the privacy of the individual, such as, for example, in the case of restrooms.

                                                                  Legal Office
- They may not be used, without the consent of the affected individuals, in those areas that may reveal special categories of data, such as - for example - those related to health products.
- Under no circumstances may the geolocation data obtained be cross-referenced with other data from other sources (such as, for example, credit card payments or images captured by surveillance systems) that may allow for the identification of the individual.
- Following the principle of data minimization, while the collection of location data must be continuous, the storage and subsequent processing operations of the location must be limited to indicating the areas identified as of marketing interest by the controller, preventing detailed and continuous collection of the movements of the interested parties.
- The data collected from an interested party in the premises of different controllers must not be used on the server. If the controller has several premises, different identifiers must also be collected.
- The same identifier must not be assigned to the same interested party during different visits that the interested party makes to the same premises over time.
- Access to the controller's WiFi must not be conditioned on the consent to the processing of the interested party's data.
- Interested parties must be allowed to exercise the opt-out option regarding the collection of their data.
- It must be ensured that the interested parties are fully aware that their personal data is being processed, as well as their right to object, in the terms analyzed in the following section.

VI
In turn, within the framework of the marketing activity referred to in the inquiry, due compliance with the provisions of the GDPR regarding the obligation to inform must be ensured, specifically in its Articles 12 and 13, referring, respectively, to "Transparency of information, communication, and modalities for exercising the rights of the interested party (Article 12)" and to "Information that must be provided when the data...
Legal Office
personal data is obtained from the data subject (Article 13)", also establishing a simple procedure for the exercise of the right to object. 
First of all, Article 12.1 of the GDPR states that the information to be provided to the data subject must be "concise, transparent, intelligible, and easily accessible, using clear and plain language." 
In turn, Article 13 in its first two paragraphs specifies the content of the aforementioned information in cases where the data is collected from the affected individual to whom it refers. This information must include:
- the identity and contact details of the data controller and, where applicable, of their representative; 
- the contact details of the data protection officer, if applicable; 
- the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended and the legal basis for the processing; 
- when the processing is based on Article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or a third party; 
- the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if applicable; 
- where applicable, the intention of the data controller to transfer personal data to a third country or international organization and the existence or absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or, in the case of transfers referred to in Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second subparagraph, reference to the appropriate or suitable safeguards and the means to obtain a copy of these or the fact that they have been provided. 
- the period for which the personal data will be stored or, when that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period; 
- the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to personal data concerning the data subject, and their rectification or erasure, or the restriction of processing, or to object to the processing, as well as the right to data portability; 
- when the processing is based on Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness of the processing based on the consent prior to its withdrawal; 
- the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; 
- whether the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a requirement necessary to enter into a contract, and whether the data subject is obliged to provide the personal data and has been informed of the possible consequences of not providing such data; 
- the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject. 
In a similar vein, according to the provisions of Article 11 of the LOPDGDD:
“Article 11 LOPDGDD. Transparency and information to the affected party.
1. When personal data is obtained from the affected party, the data controller may fulfill the information duty established in Article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 by providing the affected party with the basic information referred to in the following paragraph and indicating an electronic address or other means that allows for easy and immediate access to the remaining information.
2. The basic information referred to in the previous paragraph must contain, at least:
a) The identity of the data controller and their representative, if applicable.
b) The purpose of the processing.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
If the data obtained from the affected party is to be processed for profiling purposes, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to object to the adoption of automated individual decisions that produce legal effects concerning them or significantly affect them in a similar manner, when this right applies in accordance with the provisions of Article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.” 
As stated in their writing, the consulting entity intends to opt for the use of the information systems included in the recommendations of the GT29, and encompassed in its Guidelines -WP260- on transparency in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, revised on April 11, 2018, which establish a series of appropriate measures, among which the following are highlighted:
Legal Office
“Other types of appropriate measures
(…)
Smart technology without a screen/internet of things environment,
such as Wi-Fi location analysis: icons, QR codes,
voice alerts, written details included in written setup instructions, integrated videos in digital setup instructions, written information about smart devices,
SMS or email messages, visible panels with
information, public signage or public information campaigns.” 
Well, the option of the consultant to provide information through
the aforementioned means, provided that all the information required by the transcribed articles 12 and 13 of the GDPR, and 11 of the LOPDGDD, is incorporated into them, adapted to the environment in which it must be offered, and provided that it is guaranteed that the affected parties are adequately informed that they are being geolocated, must be deemed compliant with data protection regulations. For these purposes, the consultant must ensure, in any case, access to an additional layer of information containing all the details to which such information must refer.
VII
On the other hand, as previously mentioned and as this Agency has repeatedly pointed out and is reflected in the Explanatory Memorandum of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and the guarantee of digital rights, “the greatest novelty presented by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is the evolution from a model based fundamentally on compliance control to one that rests on the principle of active responsibility, which requires a prior assessment by the data controller or the processor of the risk that the processing of personal data may generate, in order to adopt the appropriate measures based on that assessment.”
Directly related to the principle of proactive responsibility set forth in Article 5.2 of the GDPR is the principle of data protection by design and by default, which is included in Article 25 of the GDPR:
1. Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of implementation, and the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of varying probability and severity that the processing entails for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall apply, both at the time of determining the means of processing and at the time of the processing itself, appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymization, designed to effectively apply the principles of data protection, such as data minimization, and integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing, in order to comply with the requirements of this Regulation and protect the rights of the data subjects.
2. The data controller shall apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that, by default, only personal data that are necessary for each specific purpose of the processing are processed. This obligation shall apply to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of its processing, its retention period, and its accessibility. Such measures shall ensure, in particular, that, by default, personal data are not accessible, without the intervention of the person, to an indeterminate number of natural persons.
3. An approved certification mechanism in accordance with Article 42 may be used as an element to demonstrate compliance with the obligations established in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article.
For the proper fulfillment of this principle, the GDPR provides a series of instruments that allow controllers and processors to assess the risk that the processing may involve and adopt the appropriate measures. 
First, it is necessary to conduct the risk analysis referred to in Article 24 of the GDPR:
1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of varying probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing is in compliance with this Regulation. Such measures shall be reviewed and updated as necessary. 
2. When provided in relation to the processing activities, among the measures mentioned in paragraph 1, the implementation, by the data controller, of appropriate data protection policies shall be included. 
3. Adherence to approved codes of conduct pursuant to Article 40 or to an approved certification mechanism pursuant to Article 42 may be used as elements to demonstrate compliance with the obligations by the data controller.
When, as a result of this analysis, “it is likely that a type of processing, particularly if it uses new technologies, by its nature, scope, context, or purposes, entails a high risk for the rights and freedoms...
Legal Office
of natural persons, the data controller shall carry out, prior to the processing, an assessment of the impact of the processing operations on the protection of personal data, in the terms provided for in Article 35 of the GDPR. 
In cases where the Data Protection Impact Assessment shows that the processing still poses a high risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects even after applying reasonable safeguards, security measures, and protection mechanisms regarding available technology and implementation costs, the data controller must submit the prior consultation referred to in Article 36 of the GDPR:
1. The controller shall consult the supervisory authority before proceeding with the processing when a data protection impact assessment under Article 35 shows that the processing would entail a high risk if the controller does not take measures to mitigate it. 
2. When the supervisory authority considers that the intended processing referred to in paragraph 1 could infringe this Regulation, particularly when the controller has not sufficiently identified or mitigated the risk, the supervisory authority shall, within eight weeks from the request for consultation, advise the controller in writing, and where appropriate, the processor, and may use any of its powers mentioned in Article 58. This period may be extended by six weeks, depending on the complexity of the intended processing. The supervisory authority shall inform the controller and, where appropriate, the processor of such extension within one month from the receipt of the consultation request, indicating the reasons for the delay. These time limits may be suspended until the supervisory authority has obtained the information requested for the purposes of the consultation. 
3. When consulting the supervisory authority pursuant to paragraph 1, the data controller shall provide the following information: 
a) where applicable, the respective responsibilities of the controller, joint controllers, and processors involved in the processing, particularly in the case of processing within a corporate group; 
b) the purposes and means of the intended processing; 
c) the measures and safeguards established to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subjects in accordance with this Regulation; 
d) where applicable, the contact details of the data protection officer; 
e) the data protection impact assessment established in Article 35; and 
f) any other information requested by the supervisory authority. 
(…)”
In this regulatory context, Article 28 of the LOPDGDD is situated, which - under the title “General obligations of the controller and processor of the processing,” provides that:
“1. Controllers and processors, taking into account the elements listed in Articles 24 and 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, shall determine the appropriate technical and organizational measures that must be applied in order to ensure and demonstrate that the processing is in compliance with the aforementioned regulation, with this organic law, its implementing regulations, and the applicable sectoral legislation. In particular, they shall assess whether it is appropriate to carry out the data protection impact assessment and the prior consultation referred to in Section 3 of Chapter IV of the aforementioned regulation.
2. For the adoption of the measures referred to in the previous paragraph, the controllers and processors of the processing shall take into account, in particular, the greater risks that could arise in the following cases:
a) When the processing could generate situations of discrimination, identity theft or fraud, financial losses, damage to reputation, loss of confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization, or any other significant economic, moral, or social harm to the affected individuals.
b) When the processing could deprive the affected individuals of their rights and freedoms or could prevent them from exercising control over their personal data.
c) When the processing involves not merely incidental or accessory processing of special categories of data referred to in Articles 9 and 10 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Articles 9 and 10 of this organic law or of data related to the commission of administrative offenses.
d) When the processing involves an evaluation of personal aspects of the affected individuals in order to create or use personal profiles of them, particularly through the analysis or prediction of aspects related to their performance at work, their economic situation, their health, their personal preferences or interests, their reliability or behavior, their financial solvency, their location, or their movements.
Legal Office
e) When the processing of data concerning groups of affected individuals in a situation of special vulnerability is carried out, particularly minors and persons with disabilities.
f) When massive processing occurs that involves a large number of affected individuals or entails the collection of a significant amount of personal data.
g) When personal data is to be transferred, on a regular basis, to third countries or international organizations for which an adequate level of protection has not been declared.
h) Any others that, in the opinion of the controller or the processor, may be relevant, particularly those provided for in codes of conduct and standards defined by certification schemes.”

Furthermore, the “Lists of types of data processing that require a data protection impact assessment” and the “Indicative list of types of processing that do not require a data protection impact assessment” published by the Spanish Data Protection Agency under the provisions of Article 35.5 of the GDPR must also be taken into account.

In this case, in light of the aforementioned provisions, in the opinion of this Agency, the controller must proceed with the corresponding DPIA, as the intended processing falls within the framework of the provisions of Article 28.2 d) and f) of the LOPDGDD.

On the other hand, a fundamental role within this new model of active responsibility established in the General Data Protection Regulation will be played by the Data Protection Officer (DPO), which the General Regulation regulates in Articles 37 to 39, with the latter provision outlining its functions:

Article 39 - Functions of the Data Protection Officer -
1. The Data Protection Officer shall have at least the following functions:
a) to inform and advise the controller or the processor and the employees involved in the processing about the obligations arising from this Regulation and other data protection provisions of the Union or the Member States;
b) to monitor compliance with the provisions of this Regulation, other data protection provisions of the Union or the Member States, and the policies of the controller or the processor regarding personal data protection, including the allocation of responsibilities, awareness-raising and training of staff involved in processing operations, and the corresponding audits;
c) to provide advice as requested regarding the data protection impact assessment and to monitor its application in accordance with Article 35;
d) to cooperate with the supervisory authority;
e) to act as a contact point for the supervisory authority on issues related to processing, including the prior consultation referred to in Article 36, and to consult, where appropriate, on any other matter.

2. The Data Protection Officer shall perform their functions with due regard to the risks associated with processing operations, taking into account the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing.”

Consequently, the consulting entity must have the services of a Data Protection Officer to inform, advise, and supervise compliance with personal data protection regulations and to serve as an interlocutor with data protection authorities, with their appointment being mandatory in accordance with the provisions of Article 34.k) of the LOPDGDD:
k) Entities that carry out advertising and commercial prospecting activities, including market research, when they carry out processing based on the preferences of the affected individuals or engage in activities that involve profiling them.

VIII
To determine that the measures and guarantees adopted ensure that the processing is in compliance with personal data protection regulations, the controller must take into account, as established by Article 24 of the GDPR, the scope, context, and purposes of the processing and the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, and based on the risk analysis and the DPIA, must adopt all appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and demonstrate that the processing is in compliance with the Regulation, including the corresponding security measures.
Legal Office
Regarding the latter, Article 32 of the GDPR does not establish a closed list of security measures that the controller and the processor must adopt, such that by adopting them, they would have fulfilled their obligations regarding security. Rather, by virtue of the principle of proactive responsibility, it establishes that “taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the varying probabilities and severity of risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and the processor shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk,” which may include, among others: 
“a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data; 
b) the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability, and resilience of processing systems and services; 
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident; 
d) a process for regularly verifying, assessing, and evaluating the effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of processing.” 
Consequently, it is the responsibility of the data controller and, where applicable, the processor, advised, where appropriate, by the DPO, to determine, within the risk management framework for rights and freedoms established in Article 24, all measures and guarantees, including security measures, necessary for the processing of personal data that is intended to be carried out, and it is not the responsibility of this Agency to comment on them, except in the exceptional case where it is necessary to submit a prior consultation when the DPIA indicates a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals after measures have been applied to mitigate it, and without prejudice to the investigative powers that correspond to it.