Communication from the European Commission - GDPR

On 24 July 2019, the European Commission published a Communication to the European Parliament and the Council on "Data protection rules as a trusted agent in the EU and beyond - to be taken into account" on how the General Protection Regulation has been implemented. Data and the effects of its implementation in the states of the European Union.
As stated in the Communication, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC, adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on 27 April 2016, apply for more than one year in all EU countries.
Data protection has truly become a global phenomenon, with people around the world increasingly focusing on the protection and security of their personal data.
The European Commission emphasizes that it is committed to leading the Member States of the European Union to a successful implementation of the new data protection rules and to providing the necessary support for these rules to become fully operational.
In the same context, the Commission states that, although the Regulation broadened the scope of the powers of the data protection authorities, they had a balanced approach in the first year of application of the Regulation. The authorities focused on dialogue rather than sanctioning, especially for small business operators whose main activity is not data processing.
At the same time, the Commission states that the national supervisory authorities did not hesitate to impose fines when the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation were found to be in breach. However, the success of the Regulation should not be measured by the number of fines imposed, but by changes in the culture and behavior of the actors involved.
The Commission also points out that the work of data protection authorities in the European Data Protection Board has intensified, with approx. 20 guidelines / guidelines on key aspects of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Another important objective of the Regulation was to strengthen the rights of the data subject. One year after the application of the Regulation, it was found that the data subjects are much more informed both about the rights they enjoy according to this normative act and about how they can exercise these rights.
Thus, in view of the information available so far, as well as the discussions with stakeholders, the Commission's preliminary assessment is that the first year of application of the Regulation has generally been a positive one, although some sectors need improvement.
The text of the European Commission Communication is available in English at https://ec.europa.eu/commission/sites/beta-political/files/communication_from_the_commission_to_the_european_parliament_and_the_council.pdf

Legal and Communication Directorate
ANSPDCP