—

AUTORITEIT
PERSOON SG EG EVEN S

Autoriteit Persoonsgegevens
Postbus 93374,2509 Aj Den Haag
Bezuidenhoutseweg3o, 2594 AV Den Haag
1070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
autoriteitpersonnsgegevensnI

LZZZI

Uw brief van
15mei2019

Ons kenmerk
z2019-12067

Contactpersoon

0708888500

Datum
4juli2019

Onderwerp
Besluit op Wob verzoek

Geachte heer

Bij briefvan 15 mei 2019, ingekomen op ;6 mei 2019, heeft u verzocht op grond van de Wet openbaarheid
van bestuur (hierna: de Wob) om openbaarmaking van de questionnaire en de daarop ontvangen
antwoorden van het Ministerie van Financiën, die is opgesteld in het kader van de “Guidelines for Member
States on the criteria to ensure compliance with data protection requirements in the context ofthe
automatic exchange ofpersonal data for tax purposes” aangenomen op i6 december 2015, opgesteld door
de Article 29 Data Protecifon Working Party (WP29).

Op 6 Ufl 2019 bent u geïnformeerd omtrent de stand van zaken van uw Wob -verzoek.

Inventatisatie van documenten
Uw verzoek ziet op twee documenten. Op basis van uw verzoek is één document aangetroffen, nu bij
inventarisatie is gebleken dat de questionnaire en de antwoorden van het Ministerie van Financiën zich in
één document bevinden.

Zienswijzen
De AF heeft geconstateerd dat er derde belanghebbenden zijn die mogelijk bedenkingen hebben bij de
openbaarmaking van documenten die onder de reikwijdte van uw verzoek vallen. Deze belanghebbenden
zijn op 4U 2019 in de gelegenheid gesteld hierover een zienswijze te geven. Deze zienswijzen heeft de
AP, voor zover van toepassing, in de belangenafweging meegenomen.

1 https://ec.uropa.eu/newsroom/articIe29/item-deta iI.cfm?ftem_id=64O4

Bijlage(n) 1.

-

AUTORITEIT
PERSOONSGEGEVENS

-4
4

Datum
4Ju! 2019

Ons kenmerk
z2019-12067

Beoordelingskader
Op grond van artikel 3 van de Wob kan een ieder een verzoek om informatie, neergelegd in documenten
over een bestuurlijke aangelegenheid, richten tot een bestuursorgaan. Artikel 3, vijfde lid, van de Wob
bepaalt dat een verzoek om informatie wordt ingewilligd met inachtneming van het bepaalde in de
artikelen 10 en ii van deze wet. De gevraagde informatie wordt niet verstrekt wanneer zich één ofmeer
uitzonderingen ofbeperitingen voordoen als vermeld in de artikelen 10 en 11 van de Wob.
Besluit
De AP is van mening dat zich ten aanzien van de door u verzochte documenten geen uitzonderingen of
beperkingen voordoen, die openbaarmaking daarvan zouden beperken. De AP heeft besloten te voldoen
aan uw verzoek tot openbaarmaking door toezending van de questionnaire en de daarop ontvangen
antwoorden van het Ministerie van Financiën, nu deze zich in één document bevinden. De AP wijst er ten
overvloede op dat de hiervoor genoemde questionnaire reeds openbaar gemaakt is als Annex bij de bier
bovengenoemde guidelines, te raadplegen in de link in de voetnoot.

Een afschrift van dit besluit zendt de AP aan de belanghebbenden.

Hoogachtend,
Autoriteit Persoonsgevens,
Namens deze,

eior Adviseur Staftaken

Rechtsmiddelenclausule
indien u het niet eens bent met dit besluit kunt u binnen zes weken na de datum van verzending van het besluit ingevolge de
Algemene wet bestuursrecht een bezwaarschnft indienen hij deAutoriteitPersoonsgegevens, Postbus93374, 2509 AjDen
Haag. onder vermelding van “Awb-bezwaar” op de envelop. Het indienen van een berwaarschnfischort de werking van dit
besluit niet op.

2/2

Cover letter

Dear

[Nationctt Tax Authorityj,

The Article 29 Working Party’, the group of the data protection authorities of the European Union
set tip by Article 29 of the “Directive 95/461EC of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data”, has prepared
a questionnaire addressed to national tax authorities.

The main aim of the questionnaire is to assess the level of implementation of data protection
principles, as foreseen by Directive 95/46/EC, in the context of bilateral/multilateral agreements
between countries which provide for the automatic exchange of information for tax purposes.
The automatic inter-state exchange of data is an anti-evasion tool which has been foreseen by a
number of legal instruments, at both international and European level (e.g. “foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act”- FATCA-, OECD/Council of Europe Multilateral Convention on Mutual
Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, OECD Common Reporting Standard, Directive
201 l/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, Directive 2014/1O7IEU
amending Directive 201 l/16IEU as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the
field of taxation).

-

The resuits of the questionnaire will provide the Working Party with usefuf background information
for the preparation of WP29’s Guidelines for a correct application of data protection principles in
this sector, which will be soon addressed to national govemments.

Therefore, on behalf of the WP29, we transmit
the questionnaire — together with an
Explanatory Note to provide a better understanding of the previous work of the WP29 in this field,
and the aims of the questionnaire - with the kind request to provide your answers to the
following address: [DPA ‘s e-inait address] by 18 May 2015.
The WP29 thanks in advance for the cooperation and is convinced that starting a constwctive
dialogue with the institutions competent for tax matters is an important step to ensure that anti
evasion policies are conceived with due respect for the right to private life and the protection of
personal data from earliest stages of procedure, as recognised by European and international legal
instmments.

1 The Article 29 Working Party is an independent European advisory body on data protection and privacy. Its tasks are
described
20021581EC. Website:
http://ec.europa.euljusticefdata-protectionlindex_en.htm

95/46JEC and Articte

of Directive

of Directive

in Articte

30

15

Explanatory Note

The data protection authorities of the European Union, represented in the Article 29 Working Party
(WP29) are examining the new developments at European and international level which aim to
introduce mechanisms for the automatic inter-state exchange of personal data for tax purposes.
Part of the work of the WP29 is to investigate issues affecting indïviduals’ right to the pfotection of
personal data, as provided for by the EU data protection directive, Directive 95/46/EC2.
In the last few years, the need to fight against tax evasion led govemments to engage in the creation
of information exchange tools.

In the United States the “Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act” (FATCA) was enacted with the aim
to combat tax evasion by US tax residents using foreign accounts.
On 15 July 2014, the OECD Council approved the “Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial
Account Information — Common Reporting Standard” (“CRS”), which (on the basis of the
Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters) inciudes common due
diligence procedures to be used by financial
institutions to identify reportable accounts, and
contains a Model Competent Authority Agreement that may be used by States to allow the financial
account information to be exchanged.
At European level, Directive 2011/16/EU 011 administrative cooperation in the field of taxation
underwent a revision process which Jed to the adoption - on 9th of December 2014 - of Council
Directive 2014/107/EU. Directive 2014/YO7IEU aims at ensuring a comprehensive Union-wide
approach to the automatic exchange of information for anti-tax evasion, and substantially
incorporates the OECD CRS in the EU legal framework.
In the last few years, the WP29 has dealt with the impact of automatic exchange of information on
the right to the protection of personal data in the following documents:

FATCA

— Two letters, respectively adopted on 21St June 2012 and on l October 20i2, concerning
— Letter on OECD CR5 adopted on 18 September 20l.4.

More recently, on 4 February 20156, the WP29 adopted a “Statement on automatic inter-state

2 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Partiament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movernent of such data;
3See:http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/other-
documentlfiles/20 12/2012062 Ijetter_totaxud_fatca_en.pdf
3See:http:llec.europa.eu/iustice/d-rotectio&anicte-29/dumentatio&other-

documentltiles/20 12/20121 OOljetter_to taxud fatca en.pdf
The
document/files/20 14/2014091
http://ec.europa.eu/justicc/data-protection/article-29/documentationlother-
documenUfiles/20 14/2014091 8_annex_oecd_common_reporting_standard.pdf.pdf

letter on oecd cornmon_reportin standard.pdf.pdf, whereas

http://ec.europa.eu/iustice/data-protectionlarticle-29/docurnentation/other-
at:

the Annex

available

letter

at:

is

6 The

Statement

is

avaitable

at:

http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protectionlai-ticte-29/documentationlopinion-

exchanges of personal data for tax purposes”, to draw the attention of national govemments and EU
institutions on the need that such exchanges should meet data protection requirements set forth by
EU law, with particular regard to the principles of necessity and proportionality and taking into due
regards the effects of the ECI Decision of 8 April 2O14 which declared Directive 20061241EC (the
“Data Retention Directive”) invalid on the ground that European Union Iegïslators had exceeded the
limits of proportionality in forging the Directive. In such decision, the Court stressed the need for
legislation to provide access for the competent national authorities to personal data and their
subsequent use for purposes of prevention, detection or prosecution of criminal offences. The Court
required objective criteria determining the limits for such operations, given the extent and
seriousness of the interference with the fundamental rights as enshrined in Articles 7 and 8 of the
Charter of fundamental Rights of the European Union. National Iegislators, competent authorities
and institutions should be aware of this principle, which applies a fortiori for those processing
operations designed to monitor behavior which does not have a criminal connotation.
As announced in the said Statement,
the WP29 - also further to a request by the European
Commission- intends to provide additional guidance so that the bilateral/multilateral agreements
and/or national laws ïmplementing the legal framework on administrative cooperation in the field of
taxation can afford additional and consistent safeguards in terms of data protection.
To that end, the WP29 considers it an important preliminary step to take stock of the avaflability of
the existing legal frameworks, detect the current data protection gaps and/or major diftèrences in
the instmments at national level.

In order to obtain such factual fmdings and background information,
questionnalre to be transmitted by each national DPA to national tax authorities.

the WP29 prepared the

Aims of the questionnaire

This questionnaire is mainly aimed to:

- Assess compliance of national tax authorities with European data protection law in the

context of the automatic exchange of personal data for tax purposes;

- Gather more precise information on the current availability of specific data protection
safeguards in the automatic data transfers, agreements and statements of protocol conciuded
between the national tax authorities and their counterparts in and outside of the EU;

- Gather background information for future preparation of WP29 Guidelines for Member
States on the criteria to ensure compliance with data protection requirements in the context
of the automatic exchange of personal data for tax purposes.

*

*

*

reconimendationlfiles/20 15/wp230_en.pdf
Cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights fretand, Seidinger a.o., published on http:lleur-lex.europa.euftegat
contentlENR’XT/?uri=CELEX:6201 2CJ0293

/

Questionnaire to national tax authorities on automatic exchange of data for tax purposes

Ftease note that the fottowing questions refer to existing bilateraUmultitateral agreernents providing for the
automatic exchange of information for tav purposes. Howeve,; where possible, we would appreciate an
answer also in respect ofpossibte current negotiationsforfitture agreements.

1. FATCA and other international tools - Status of international agreements in your country
and cooperation with fmancial institutions and insurance companies
1.1. Did your tax authority sign a (bilateral or multilateral) agreement with the Government of the
United States of America under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), or with any
other authority outside of the FU on the automatic exchange of information for tax purposes?
Yes

1.2. 1f yes, can you provide us with a list of such authorities and a copy of the agreements?
The Ne &Jp1s conclude4 tbe.foliowing agreements:

• FATCA-agreement between the Neffierlands and the US,
•

$eveiial Memoraizda of Understandrng (M0U) regardrng autornnge of information
imder the bilateraltaxcbnventiions.
• Ojie the EU e. Neffierlands conciuded MoU S 011 autma1ic echange of information
• All bilateral x Gonventions are published in the Bullet,m of Acts,
• All MoU’s arGpiiblished in he Government Gazette (www.ov&heid.n1Jstaatscourant).

wilih Argentma, Austialia Canada Ghana, Japan New Zealand, Souffi Corea

1.3 1f yes, is this agreement, or at least are its provisions on the automatic transfer of information
binding on both your authority as well as the receiving authority,
in particular as for the
enforceability of data subjects’ rights in the receivïng country?
• The FATCA-agreement is binding to the US and the Netiherlands
• TheMoJs are limdmg to the Netherlands and the MoU-partner

1.4. 1f not, what is the current state of negotiation of any agreements for the automatic transfer of
information?

iLlJIe

1.5. Could you explain to what an extent your authority has cooperated with the local
representatives of the fmancial
to the
international laws on automatic exchange of information for tax purposes? -

institutions and insurance companies that are subject

cinlent 0fl whn we

negotiaflng the FATCA-grement With
1ie r
t€n’al 1e16on

US The

of the anc;al

1.6. In this context, were any (public) agreements or anangements made with the private sector, and
towhat extent was this discussion reflected in your national law?
There were nopc agreemeats or aiigernents made wiffi1thpnvate sestorregarding FATCA

or regaiiding AEoI.

2. OECD Common Reporting Standard
2.1. The OECD Common Reporting Standard (CR5) sets forth due diligence standards for financial
institutions to identify the “reportable accounts”, and provides for a “Model Competent Authority
Agreement” that may be used by states to exchange information for tax purposes. Does your
national legal framework provide/intend to provide for the implementation of automatic exchange
of information for tax purposes as foreseen by CRS? Yes

yes, can you provide us with a copy of the agreement? Not nêcessary we implement the EU
the Netherlands will use

Di-eGUve 20l4/l07J .in our national law Regarding non EU €oiantries
the aforrnentioned Model (MCAA)
2.3. Does your authority (intend to) use the Model Competent Authority Agreement as a basis for
exchanging data? See answerin 2.2.
2.4. 1f so, what is the definition given by your legal framework of “low risk accounts” to be
excluded from data collection?
In the deflnon o excluded account in our domestic legislaüon we refer to Section Vifi,
subparagrphs C(17)fa) through (g), ofAnnex lof Dire€tive 2011/16/BU (which was added in
Direcuve 202411071EW) This defrmtion mcludes the lo* risk accounts that are excluded (Section
VIII, subpgraph C(17)(g) ofAnnex lof Directive 2011/1 6[EU) In this deflmtion we refer to a
list of exclde aeounts This list will be published by the EJ

3. EU tools for administrative cooperation in the field of taxation (Directive 2011/16/EU and
Directive 2014/107/EU)
3.1. Did your country implement Directive 201 1/I6IEU on administrative cooperation in the field of
taxation? Yes

3.2. Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation was recently
amended by Directive 2014/ÏO7IEU. When and how is the implernentation of this Directive
planned? ] heimplementation of Directive 2014/107/EU in nationallaw will take place in 2015.
4. Aim of EU harmonïsation
4.1. Do you plan or would you welcome any actions of harmonisation vis-â-vis the approaches in
other Member States at EU level? Yes

4.2. 1f so, how couldlshould such EU-level harmonisation be achieved in your view in terms of
data protection?
a. Guidance by WP29 on the data protection content of the EU Legal framework andlor
bilateral tax agreements
b. Application of the procedure envisaged in Article 218 of the EU Treaty (Commission
submits recommendation to Council to open negotiation with consultation of WP 29). What
are your views on further amendments of EU law, for instance by adding substantive data
protection clauses? 1f so, are there any articles in the EU legal framework on automatic
transfer of information for tax purposes that require clarification?
c. Adoption of the new Data Protection Regulation in 2015

d. Informal approach: Practical discussion with representatives of the WP29 and the
European Commission on the impact of LU case law8 on the content of such arrangements
and the required minimum data protection content of international tax agreements to reduce

- therskofnegativecourtdecision

-

e. We aretryin to hmionize the .ppro*of the EU
pnnciples towrds tiurd eountnes wi e4y de.,q,sn
abasisT diseussmg âpossibk
theAfspeefication of
pfflaaon with 1?utcidaiu

prepanng ncJe that may 1je
under secbon 7,1 d of
personal data) The note will be
TAt) (anformally) and 1he OECD
contaan a draftnoan ri se
Çolipetent Auffionties of EU
a11ow them to exchangeinfttoniiMer ieMÂ with non Eli junsdictions
It
Pi%iifetive that .re not part of th draft nôtificatioii, tögehr wïth a short explanation why
theywere not rncluded. We do not seernenteoptions abcd.

tam anoverwew of

ei1 in the BU Data

protection

--:

- .

:-

‘.

5. Availability of data protection safeguards
As also stated hy the WP29 in the Annex to the letter adopted on 18 September (see the Explanatory
Note above), there are several data protection principles — as also interpreted by the EU Court of
Justice in the data retention case9 -
to be taken into account by governments and competent
institutions to make sure that the automatic exchange of information for tax purposes is carried Out
while ensuring the respect for data protection obligations under Directive 95146/EC.
In this regard, what are the measures that are currently conciuded or proposed (or developed in the
negotiations) in order to ensure data protection in accordance with national and EU law? Please
answer by refening in particular to the following principles:
5.1. Availability of data protection safeguards - DPIA
5.1.1. Is a Data Protection Impact Assessment(DPJA) ora formal consultation of the national DPA
being envisaged and at which stage? Yes, we made a DPIA and it was sent to the national DPA
together with the bill implementing the Dfrective into national law.
5.1.2. Did you perform a Data Protection Impact Assessment during the negotiations of
international agreements by:

acontacting your national DPA for further information
j,. your owu assessment (please explain what guidance you used such as intemal guidance
bytn-jiouse or extemal ounsel - e.g. law office -, public opinion or other means. Thank you
also for providing us with a copy or summary of the content of this guidance to be able to
check at least the sumrnary of the data protection impact assessment. The guidance of the in
housecounsellors was onally.
c. other (please explain)

—

5.2. Avallability of data protection safeguards - Legal basis in national law

For rnstarlce: impact of the Decision of the Graad Chamber of the Court of Justice on the “Data retention Dtrective”:
Cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights freland, Seitlinger ao., published on http://eur-Ïex.europa.euflegal
content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:62012CJ02937. As recalled in the Explanatory Note to this questionnaire, the
ECJ Decision declared Directive 2006/24/EC (the “Data Retention Directive”) invalid on the ground that European
Union legislators had exceeded the Itmits of proportionality in forging the Directive.
See previous footnote.

5.2.1. Are bilateral or multiÏateral agreements, such as Tax Treaties, conciuded for the purpose of
exchange of information subject to formal ratification procedure by your national Parliament? Yes
5.2.2. Did your country adopt a national law that provides for the possibility of automatic transfer of
personal data for tax evasion purposes to third countries? Yes
5.2.3. 1f so, can you give us the references of such law and specify which instruments at
international level are transposed7 In he ‘Wet op d international b;jstandsverlemng bij delfJng
hïtmgen’ (WIE) all Directie rgardmg eig of tfonnation are implemente lie data
prote@tion safeguards rnttus law are eqafly
exchange of information with third
countries.

5.2.4. 1f not, have you prepared a first draft of a legal basis for the automatic transfer? Has your
national data protection authority been involved in the process? 11 not, at which stage of the process
do you plan to involveit? Is there any timeframe for the legislation process? When do you plan the
law to enter in force? N/A

5.3. Availabillty of data protection safeguards - Data to be exchanged
5.3.1. for each individual, does the collection of data regard only the total of the owned amounts at
a certain date, or does it also cover each movement on the account?
The collection of data does not also cover each movement on the account
5.3.2. What data are collected (current accounts; deposit accoitnts; credit cards; .shareholdings;
personal property and real estate, etc.) and what are the criteria to identify the data to he collected?
n general, the dataollected may fertain to dep &‘accits, custodial accounts, equity and
debt initerests and cash value insurance/annuity contracs. However, low risk accounts, like
retirement and pensions aceounts, and acconuts of lownsk finan&ial rnstitutions, are excluded
Most important criteria to identify ihe relevant accctuits is whether the afo.rernenioned aceounts are
financial isisitution-accounts held by (non &xcluded) reportable persons
g under CRS reportabe
pesons are fiscal residents of a CRS-parir
iunsdaction or passve non 1na,oia1 entities Wit3 one
or more conrollmg persons that is a
stock is regulafly taded on an cc_
entilies, aud fmaicial Institutions A
namral sob exerc;ses coni
the enty - oft
tepeted ? 25%
1 (andiieis), the se

et rand ffieirrél entities), goveriiment
î a passi.ve non finana1 entty is the

Jy controfling ownership interest in

s inciude corporations whose

“r(s), benefic;ary(ies), and any other

rson.(s) eepismg
four çbfferei —

—- —

a

-

dmdua1 acounts,

coliect

t)

t

‘-‘

liri the iaw

oiï’ïu L
FôtCA the da to

5.3.3. Does your national authority create a datahase of (and the reby duplicate) the collected data?
No, Leiot duplicate the data.

-

5.3.4. Does your national law contain provisions relating to:
a. identification of scope (data to be exchanged)
ii data quality (i.e. principles of proportionality, data minimization, data accuracy, maximum data
retention period, etc. - Content regarding these principles isfurther elaborated betow).
Yes The Neffierfands has iimplemejited ldae data pxote1aon prmciples as foreseen by Directtve
951461EC The data to bb echnge readnfiQdm the 1aw see 5 3 2 The prmip1es of
proporuonahty, subs;dianty
ae implnted in the relevant ],ws, g the Law on
International Assistance (WISi theav orLIdetion of Personal data (Wbj$) our General Tax
Law (AWR), the Law on Data Retentiorf (Ariefwet)

5.4. Availability of data protection safeguards - Proportïonality1°
5.4.1. How are parties prevented from engaging in “fishing expeditions” or requesting information
that is unlilcely to be relevant to the tax affairs of a given person or ascertainable group or category
of persons?’

Parties are prevented from engaging in “fishing expeditions” because - othe basis of the Directiv
on Administrative Cooperafion (DAC) . our DTA’ s and our other £01 instruments may only —
request for information that is foreseeably relevant to the tax affairs of a given person Furffiermore,
the requests for information from Ihe Netherlands tax offices always have to go out via and after
scnutiny by the Netherlands Competent Authority (B/CLO Almelo) who is dedicatedto and well
tramed in sfricUy adhenng to the 1egi frrnework onEOl
5.4.2. How is automatic exchange of information carried out in practice? Please describe what
technique is applied, and what it means in practice (are there any previous filtering mechanisms in
place for data exchange, or which unique identifiers are used?, etc.).
Under CRS and FATCA the data to 5e changed are captured by the Financial ksliituliions in
conformity wilih the diie dffigen€e
and Golleciing procedures described in the CRS-standard and the
fATCA-treaty wi.th the US Part of the dte diligence procedures is captunng the foreign TIN Part
of the collectitng procedure is the exc1is pf low nsk data
The relevant data collected by ae Fmaneial Institutiions are send to the Centrai Admimstratton
Center of the Tax Mministration ;ffi av to mternational exchange with the CRS-parmers or
the US Boitli ffie CRS-standard
are implemented in ffie naüonal
law and regulatrons on nteniâttoual Admimsftative Assistan€e
W;th regard to IT tecImiqu1the automatrc1cbange of information shail be sent usmg a standard
tsomputerised format aimed at faflitating suchautomat!ic exhange.
5.4.3. What is your assessment on the necessity of the automatic transfer of information for tax
evasion purposes?

eATCA-treaty will be c

(WIB)

—

—

Given the

pppibes to mibroadrna wide

10 Based on the ECJ decision invatidating the Data Retention Diiective (see the previous footnote), in order not to
violate the proportionality principle, it is necessary to demonstrably prove that the planned processing is necessary and
that the required data are the minimum necessary for attaining the stated purpose and thus avoid an indiscriminate,
massive collection and transfer.

Comments mi article 4 of the Convention of 25 January 198$ of the OCDE and the Council of Europe on Mutual
Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, published on httpJ/www.conventions.coe.intlTreatvfEN/ReportsfNtmll127-
Revised .htin#article4

iyi tpur lo

EI

ihstrumens ap nöt tailoro fc! sombat

m’te’ma$sp4ns wher 4ix
g4rto ëythe fj1e TÇtjW
adimntrati.on s iio (1ear)
entenon) that tax paers qnc1 taxamo% or asets fronieiftax adiimsiratcoibyhg
(bank) accounts or mterpoed veu abroad This is ohly ossi1e via autornalac exdfinge
5.4.4. Are bilateral automatic exchange mechanisms flully in place with all counterparties in foreign
jurisdictions? I.e. Do you autC)matically receive for all countries the data related to your own data
subjects’2?

dear

in ‘$ptember 2015 Furthrmore, asBU MS’are

For ABOI on (bank)account nformationw have in place the FATCA treaty
2013) The first eçIgesvil1
subjected toe DAC2 (to p imp1emntd before 2016 and first ex&hange startmg as of ptemer
2017) furth&mo;e, Iaa committ@d to being early adopter in the P (ID/Globaj Forum RS,
process The Neffierlands is party to the ÔECt)/Council f Europe Multilateral Con’reihj on
Admimstralive Assistanse on TaxMter The NetherÏands signed the CRS-MCAA bad ont
article 6 of this Convenüoji, in 2014 &fore the end of this year, after the pre’hmmary peer reviews
regardmg data protecton and safekuais are completed, we expect to enter mto exchange
relationships under the RS-MCAA,’’iffi the first exchanges starting as of September 2Ö17.
5.5. Avaïlability of data protectîon safeguards - Data retention
5.5.1. Does your legislation provide for a specific data retention period? 1f so, please specify the
minimum and the maximum retention periods.
The Netherlands’ tax1egisIatiouprovides for specific data retention perïdds pertaini g to(he
retenhiion obligations for tax payers/tbird parties. The data retention period for most types of
information (e.g. aGcou
nformatiou)isseven years (article 52 AWR). For a few spe&iftclypes of
information data retentiohjrioasmay vary from 5 to 10 years. The retentionpriod for aining
tax relevant informat!ion by the tax administration is regulated in the Law on Data Reteütion.
5.5.2. How long do you store data received from institutions, insurance companies, etc.? How long
do you store data you automatically receive from other countries, also participating in the automatic
exchange?

The Law on Data R

nA±iefwet applies to both categories.

5.5.3. Is there a procedure for the deletion or conection of obsolete or incorrect data?
W For this we have a standard prosedure taken up in our Law on protection ofj.rsnaï daïa
(Wbp) for requests and Gomp1wns
Belastingdienst öe ebe&ir ygpersonsgegevens (Wbp’) This

procechire is made ubhc by a14cafle “De
adthef

amo.ng

5.6. Avallability of data protection safeguards - Data Controtler
5.6.1. What decisions does/did your authority take as for the forwarding of the data for tax evasion
purposes?

2 Data subjects that are subject to the tax laws of your country while they have economic activities or receive income
outside of your country.

Nehher1als rnp.tên4’k*ority luEas çommilited to nd is thetforeot!Iffd to adbere to the data

protonsafeguars requh’edbythe FATcA and CRS hiles.
5.6.2. In particular: Does your authority (intend to) provide “data warehousing” services for the
automatic transfer of information to foreign counterparts? I.e. To what an extent does your actthority
store data forwarded by national
insurance companies, etc.) where such
institutions are subject to foreign legislations on automatic transfer of information for tax purposes
(e.g. FATCA or others)?

institutions (banks,

This question is not çlear .toj; The Netherlands does not intend tostore liiie data forwarded by
natcoi?al anstiautions for TATCA çf CRS purposes We mtend to exchane liiie data in conformity
wiffi our obhgalicons in th FATCA-lireaty and CRS (international) legal exehange mstruments
5.6.3.
In particular: Does your authority (intend to) provide «data warehousing» services for data
you automatically receive from other countries? 1f yes, please describe how these data are further
processed.

infbrmabionreceived

The financial account
the basis of the FÂTA lireaty and CR5
legislation/trealiies will be forwaMed to the tax offices to be taken into account in the usual process
of checking/controlling the individual tax returns. Furthermore, we expect to beab1e to process
these data inEh framework ofthepre filled tax return within a few years.
5.6.4. In that case, does your authority accept full responsibility as a “data controller”13 under
Directive 95/46/EC vis--vis the data subjects?

Yes. The Netherlands alheres to the Directive 95/46/EC.
5.6.5. 1f not, do you consider that (only) institutions or other parties are data controllers undet the
terms of EU Directive 95/46/EC? Why?

Not applicable.

- Transparency / Oblïgation to inform and

5.7. Availabiity of data protection safeguards
reciprocity vis--vis your own data subjects
5.7.1. Are all your national laws and international anangements related to the automatic transfer of
personal data published? Please provide us with a list.
Yes. Our laws ptablished in the Staasblad (Bulletin of Acts). Our international arrangements are
published m fh Çptaenb1ad (lireaties) and the Staatscourant (government gazelle) You may find
lihem 0fl wV.tvhgidii1.

5.7.2. Do you require that foreign authorities inform the data subjects that are subjects of the tax
Iaws of your country of the fact that their data is processed for tax evasion purposes?
Yes, but ffiey hato Qiothatin way

tlihls may notjeopardizetax mvesU&aons

5.7.3. 1f not, do you inform data subjects yourself upon reception of the information from foreign
counterparts?

‘ See Article 2.d of Directive 95/46/EC.

Data sufijes4e
rsp%t wi11 so 1+oadLy

informti&i re ewed from counterarts wiJI be used

tbas’ ortipn ia

ii

ofhex return of hihrndua1 ‘* per mvolved and - in the near future - to preii the tax
retJiffl:ie idrvidu

pa9er mvoivJd

5.7.4. 1f not, wliat is the reason for non-appilcation of the obligation to inform the data subjects that
are subject to your own tax laws?

Not applicable,

5.8. Avallability of data protection safeguards - Purpose defrnition and limitation
5.8.1. Is there a clear-cut defrnition of “tax infringement” according to the national tax system?
No.
5.8.2. 1f not, why not?

Tax infriiïement m
many for.E. The essence is that there is tal infringement if and when
tax laws have not been qb.eyd. itja r’gard to not fuffiffing the obligaüons to send in correct and
timely tax retums anI liiie obhgalcons to €ooperate with the tax admirnstration we have specific
provisions in our General Tax LVR).

5.8.3. Does your law on automatic exchange of information provide for a dear limitation on the use
of the excbanged information for tax purposes only? I.e. is the use of the exchanged information for
other than tax purposes excluded (money laundering, corruption, financing of terrorism, etc.)? Are
the conditions for eventual other purposes provided for? 1f so, which ones?
Our law on iii! ional exchange of information (WIB) implements the EU Diiectives on
Administra1iv.e A.ssiistajaçe and our treaty instrumeuts. So, if he Direive and/or treaiies allow for
the use of e’xchjeinformat!ton for other than tax purposes (which _IØr certain eonditions —
the Directive and of our treaties do) this is allowed by our national1awThether purposes L
may be money 1aunaemg, comiption2 financing of terrorism, social secunty This depends on thel
lega1insrht
The cnditions are usual,Ty reciprocal and having iiational laws allowing for this oflheruse. For
cnrnmal ta mattsZw rna also use mutual legal assistance freatres
5.8.4. 1f not, is sufficient attention given in your national law to other legal instruments which are
already available at EU or national level and should be considered in case of use of information for
criminal matters? I.e. does your national law take into account the possihility to exchange
information on criminal tax matters based on bilateral or multilateral treaties’4 on muwal legal
assistance (to the extent they also apply to tix crimes), as well as on domestic legislation regulating
the granting of such assistance’?

-

the European Convention of 20 April 1959 on mutuat assistance in criminal matters. published on

14 Sec a.o.
http://www.conventions.coe.intffreatv/en[Treaties/HLml/030.htm
15 See comment on articte 1 § 1 of the Convention of 25 January 1988 of the OCDE and the Council of Europe on
Mutual
on
http:/lw w.con’entions.coe.inuTïeatv/ENJReportsfHtrntJ1 27-Rc ised.litrn#article3, and the bilateral aEreement 0fl
mutuat legal assistance between the European Union and the United States of America of 25 June 2003, L181, 19 Juty
2003, p. 34.

Administrative

Assistance

published

Maners,

Tax

in

See 5.8.3.

5.8.5. Does this purpose limitation safeguard apply also to the onward transfers from the receiving
authority to third authorities?

the onward transfer from receivIg auffiority to third authoriües is often not

Yes Please
possible or bond by sct1ifnitations.
5.9. Avallability of data protection safeguards - Rights of data subjects
5.9.1. Does your national law provide for direct rights of access, rectification and right to object
under articles 12-14 of Directive 95/46/EC vis-â-vis your authority? 1f so, please describe this
procedure.

-

-

—

of data to whrchj

otetaon of personal data IWbp) provides fbr iectnghts of access

The Dutch
reetffication en right to bjeGt.
Right of access (âR 35 -p): Any data subject may, at reasonable intervals, ask the controllerj
whether personal 14a ela1ing to him are processed. A reqüe.s must he tëd within four weeks.
The answer must contain the following information: a summary of the data of the data subject
pro€essed by ‘tb coiro1ier the purpose(s) of the data processmg, th
he prcessing relates, (categories of) recipients, informalion about the origin of the data
Right of.rèctffiçafiqn (art. 36 Wbp): A data subject may ask the controller to correct the data
relating 5 lijm. flie desfred changes must be indicated in the request. 3rechion implies:
correction, snp1ementing, deletion, blocking. The data subject must be normed witbin four weeks
about the d€sion.
Right to obj&çt (art. 40 Wbp): when data are processed on the groiand t1this processing is
necessaryfor the pro,per performance of a pubkc law duty performed by the controller, the data
subject ffiayTgister’an objection on grounds in connection wilfia his particular personali
cfreumstances. The controller has to decide whether the objection is well founded within four
weeks.
5.9.2. Are there limitations onlexceptions to the data subject’s rights? 1f so, for what reason and
what are the safeguards for the application of an exception? In particular, does your law (intend to)
provide restrictions on the scope of the obligations and rights provided for in Article 10, Article
11(1), Articles 12 and 21 of Directive 95/46/EC, as foreseen by Article 25 of Directive
201 1/16JEU?
Therearç rcstric!ions-to data subjects rigi ts based on art. 43 Wbp.
The obtç provide information to data subjects and requests for acsess and rectification may
fimbë
q nthstatesèj
[

rfstipion osecut.iQp. o €niia1 offes; -
economie çrfnancia1ets of the tate offir]ac bodies,

GSiary

-

-

-

oenma1 offen of

niannanaaiöfthe state and

5.9.3. Does your national law provide for direct riglits of access, rectification and riglit to object
under articles 12-14 of Directive 95/46/EC vis-â-vis the financial institutions, insurance companies,
etc.?
The aforemntied articiesTart. 35, 36 and 40 Wbp) appiy to aïi contrdller.

—v

1

_____

_______

5.10. Availabilîty of data protection safeguards - Data security’6
5.10.1. What security measures are (or are expected to be) in place? Please describe them briefly.
For

•; $akgrçund Checks and conhracts for employees n nta

and developmg awareness of enp1oyesgardnfg @ondntia1 information,
Aceess control Access onlyto the information if Ôeon isnfledto have access,
t,âtiion and authenticaiiiortof auer by ccouit name anjpsjord,
T

-

;

•

assGssments,

t)epartixipohcy end all ac€es possjbihs when an employee leaves

• ?hysc1 Do&iment Storage Mamtenance
• &ca oji of ihe systems and commuucons,
• Risk ?ss@sxIent4to ;dentify nslcs and t!he potential impact of unauffionsed access use and

-

diselosure 5f information

5.10.2. What kind of control (preventive and/or ex post) is canied out in order to ensure the correct
adoption of security measures? See 5.10.1.

for

the

any

Please

describe

technical

measures

parameters

5.10.3.
of
encryptionlintegrity/traceability of exchanges that are in place to safeguard the transfer and storage
of personal data.
Cryptogmplajc controls are being used in compliance with applicahle laws and regulatibns. Tax
offiGes follo tke guidelmes for protectmg sensitive information and make use of encryption when
presecbe
penmtted by legislation and regulations Legal reuirernents are mcorporated rn the
seuntypp1cy handbook of the Tax admmistration
Netwotk eneryption is apphed to protect the confidentiality of sensititve and cntical information
dunng ther tansport over the Nattonal Domams Transport of information between locations of the,
Tax Adrrnistration is standard encrypted Part of PKII SSL Portal and hoÏders of certificates For
the common domain we use the CCN netvork.
- Cont&it rent and received on phys;&al media (such as dvd’s, harddnves and usb-devices) ;s
prQtte,by ismg AES256 eneryption, in a ZIP-container
- E1tmc aata exchange via mtemet or pnvate networks is protected with server (and sometimes
chent)side certificates (PM-ove.rheidssertificaten)
- $oiiae ewbanges protect the content by defimng a SHA-5 12 digest value or are offierwise digitally
signe&
- For Sorneexehanges there is additional access control: usernai

-

-

d and sms-verification.

5.11 Availability of data protection safeguards - Accountability through security breach

notification

5.11.1. Does your national law provide for an obligation to inform the competent authority (DPA or
other) and/or the concerned data subjects in case of a security breach related to the data that is
processed for tax purposes? Is such obligation envisaged for breaches at data warehouse level?
ALawprovimg an hgation to mfonn tiheDP out mjor s@cunybrea

gr;s tQ e

The potential imptications of the technical options that might be chosen in order to implement automatic cxchange of
information, in particular in the light of the ECJ’s decision of 8th April 2014 on the Data retention Directive, should be
kept in mmd.

ilÏemantd this ye

5.1 L2. Does this obligation apply to the private sector (financial institutions, insurance companïes,
etc.) and/or the public sector (your tax authority)? Botli
5.12. Availability of data protection safeguards - Accountability through DPO
5.12.1. Has your authority appointed a Data Protection Officer (“DPO”) that is competent to deal
with any questions, complaints, access/rectification requests related to the automatic transfer of
information of data subjects? Yes

5.12.2. 1f so, are the function description and competencies of this DPO established by law?
Yes

5.12.3. 1f not, why not?

5.12.4. Is the DPO involved in the legislation process to point Out data protection issues at an early
stage? Yes

5.12.5. To your knowledge, have the institutions and insurance companies appointed a DPO to deal
with similar guestions as mentioned above? Yes
5.13. Avallabflity of data protection safeguards - Special categories of data - Protecting
personal data on suspicion of fraud
5.13.1.What are the safeguards for the exchange of the special categories of data as provided for by
Article 8 of Directive 95/46,
in particular of data relating to offences, criminal convictions or
sanctions? What are the safeguards for the exchange of information in case of suspicion of fraud?
Under our international exchange instrumeuts we can only exchange t’ax e1ated information. The
usual data protection safeguards and refusal grounds apply. The inte.rnational exchange instmments
and the confidentia1ity/dataprotection niles therein do not differ between categories of data.
5.14. Avallability of data protection safeguards - Redress
5.14.1.
(national DPA or national judicial or adrainistrative authority)? Yes
5.14.2. In particular, is redress provided in case of erroneous/unlawful processing and transmission?
Yes

Is the data that is automatically exchanged subject to legal oversight at national level

5.14.3. How is liability allocated between financial institutions and tax authorities? There are no
spe& agrên etwFrs and the tax auffionties w;thiespect to allocate the hability
5.14.4. Is a full exercise of the control by an independent authority ensured in the case of a data
transfer to a third country, as explicitly required by Article 8(3) of the EU Charter of Fundamental
Rights and highlighted by the ECJ in the data retention case’7? No, the Nther1ands on1yansfers

‘71n the ECJ’s decision of 8 April 2014 invalidating the Data Retention Directive,
the Court highlighted that the
retention of data outside EU would prevent the full exercise of the control. explicitly required hy Artiele 8(3) of the
Charter, by an independent authority, which is an essential component of the protection of individuals with regard to the
processing of personal data.

w,.

data to t rdie iihh s i.ye1 of
country has apomted an mde nde’aionty

W don.’ lcno whether that third

5.15. Availabitity of data protection safeguards Other safeguards
5.15.1. Is there a sunset clause18ltermination clause in bilateral arrangements to ternunate the
arrangements in case any of the folfowing events happens: entry into force of the European data
protection regulation, entry into force of another harmonisation regulatory action at EU level and/or
other? No

5.15.2. Do you plan any foÏlow-up action in the coming years to take into account the changes that
are expected to be implemented by the announced EU Regulation on data protection?
Yes

‘8A sunset provision or ctause is a measure within a statute, regulation or other law that provides that the Jaw shafl cease
to have effect after a specific date, uniess further legislative action is taken to extend the law. Most Iaws do not have
sunset clauses and therefore remain in force indefinitely.

