EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion
1/2019 on the processing of
patients’ data and the role of
the European Commission
within the eHealth Digital
Service Infrastructure (eHDSI)

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1
2
3

Background.....................................................................................................................................3
Scope of the opinion ......................................................................................................................4
Assessment.....................................................................................................................................5

2

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  and  the  European  Data  Protection
Supervisor
Having regard to Article 42(2) of the Regulation 2018/1725 of 23 October 2018 on the protection of
natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  by the Union institutions,  bodies,
offices  and  agencies  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data, and  repealing  Regulation  (EC)  No
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC,

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,

HAVE ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING JOINT OPINION

1 BACKGROUND

1. The eHealth Network is a voluntary network of responsible authorities for eHealth designated by
Member States. The network is provided in Article 14 of Directive 2011/24/EU on patients’ rights in
cross border healthcare.1 The European Commission Implementing Decision No 2011/890/EU2 sets
out the rules and the establishment, management and functioning of the eHealth network.2 Among
others, one of the main objectives of the eHealth network is to enhance interoperability between
national  digital  health  systems  in  exchanging  patients’ data  contained  in  ePrescriptions3,  Patient
Summaries 4 and  electronic  health  records.  In  this  framework, and  in  order  to  facilitate  such
interoperability, the eHealth network and the Commission have developed an IT tool, namely the
eHealth Digital Service Infrastructure (hereinafter eHDSI), in order to exchange health data under the
Connecting Europe Facility programme5, also developed by the Commission.

2. In  its  Communication  of  25  April 2018 6,  the  Commission  underlined  the  need  to  clarify  the
functioning of the eHDSI, as well as the role of the eHealth network concerning its governance. The
draft Commission Implementing Decision repealing Commission Implementing Decision 2011/890/EU
aims at clarifying the role of the eHealth network in the governance of the eHealth Digital Service
Infrastructure, together with the data protection aspects in line with the General Data Protection

1 Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 on the application of
patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare, OJ L 88/45.
2 Commission  Implementing  Decision  2011/890/EU  of  22  December  2011  providing  the  rules  for  the
establishment,  the  management  and  the  functioning  of  the  network  of  national  responsible  authorities  on
eHealth, OJ L 344/48, 28.12.2011
3 ePrescriptions are medicinal prescriptions issued and transmitted electronically.
4 Patient data summaries enable sharing information about the medical background and history of a patient
from a country with a healthcare professional from another country.
5 Regulation  (EU)  No  1316/2013  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  11  December  2013
establishing the Connecting Europe Facility, amending Regulation (EU) No 913/2010 and repealing Regulations
(EC) No 680/2007 and (EC) No 67/2010, OJ L 348, 20.12.2013.
6 Communication from the Commission on enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital
Market; empowering citizens and building a healthier society, SWD(2018), 126 final, p.7.

3

Regulation  2016/679  (hereinafter  GDPR)7 and  Regulation  2018/1725 on  the  protection  of  natural
persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  by  the  EU  institutions,  bodies,  offices  or
agencies (hereinafter Regulation 2018/1725).8

2 SCOPE OF THE OPINION

3.  On  13  May  2019,  the  European  Commission  (Directorate-General  for  Health  and  Food  Safety,
“SANTE”) submitted a request to the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter EDPB) and to the
European Data Protection Supervisor (hereinafter EDPS) for a joint opinion in accordance with article
42(2) of Regulation 2018/1725, on the data protection aspects of the draft Implementing Decision.
The European Commission asked, in particular, three specific questions:

i.

In  this  particular  case,  should  the  making  available  and  maintaining  of  the  secured  and
encrypted  connection TESTA-ng  private  network  for  the  transmission  of  personal  data  of
patients from one Member State to another be considered as a processing of personal data?

If the reply to the first question is affirmative:

ii.

Is it correct to consider the following two processing operations as separate, with possibly
different controllers?

o Processing of personal data of personnel from National Contact Points for eHealth for
the purpose of managing their access rights to the eHDSI core services (see Annexes
VII-IX for description of relevant processing activities);

o Processing of personal data of patients for the purpose of their exchange from one

Member State to another.

iii.

Considering that Member States shall be regarded as joint controllers for the processing of
patients’ data in eHDSI as confirmed by the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party in its
opinion (see  page  2  of  Annex  V),  is  it correct  to consider  as  explained  in  the  background
information in this note that, with regard to the processing of patients’ data in the eHDSI, the
Commission is a processor?

4. The EDPB and the EDPS have had the opportunity, at different points in time, to address different
aspects in relation to the processing of personal data within the eHealth Network and the eHDSI itself.
Following a request from the eHealth Network in June 2017, the EDPB, at the time still the Article 29
Working Party (hereinafter WP29), has had the opportunity to assess the agreement between national

7 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), OJ L119/1, 4.5.2016.
8 Regulation  (EU)  2018/1725  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  23  October  2018  on  the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies,
offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and
Decision No 1247/2002/EC, OJ L295/39, 21.11.2018.

4

authorities  or  organisations  responsible  for  national  contact  points  for  eHealth 9,  on  the  criteria
required  for  the  participation  in  Cross-Border  eHealth  Information  Services. 10 A  letter  with
recommendations concerning topics such as lawfulness and joint controllership was issued in April
2018.11 The EDPS, on the other hand, during the inter-service consultation of the draft Implementing
Decision, has recently issued a set of informal comments, which have been sent to the Commission
last December 2018.12 Given that previous assessments have been conducted on different aspects of
the  eHDSI,  and  that  the  processing  of  personal  data  within  the  system  at  stake  entails  certain
specificities by an organisational and technical point of view, both bodies have agreed to address
solely the three questions raised by the Commission. As such, the omission of any references, in this
joint opinion, to any other aspects of the processing of personal data within the system does not signal
either approval, nor disapproval from any of the two bodies.

5. Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS would like to underline that the present opinion concerns
solely and exclusively the issues raised by the European Commission in its consultation and does not
constitute an exhaustive evaluation of the processing operations within the eHDSI. This is without
prejudice to any further assessments conducted by the EDPS, the EDPB or the national Supervisory
Authorities.

6.  Moreover,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  would  like  to  underline  that  the  EDPS  remains  the  entity
responsible for  the  supervision  of  EU  institutions,  bodies,  offices  and  agencies  regarding  the
processing of personal data in the context of their mandates, as foreseen in Regulation 2018/1725.13
As a result, any requests concerning compliance with, or implementation of any provisions regarding
Regulation 2018/1725 should be addressed primarily to the EDPS. On the other hand, in line with the
GDPR, the national Data Protection Authorities remain entirely responsible for the supervision of the
processing of personal data within the eHDSI by the national contact points of the Member States part
of the eHealth Network and using the platform.

7. Finally, the EDPB and the EDPS would like to point out that the assessment conducted in the context
of this joint opinion is based solely on the documents provided by the European Commission, as well
as on additional clarifications provided by DG SANTE upon request.

3 ASSESSMENT

i.

In this particular case, should the making available and maintaining of the secured and
encrypted connection TESTA-ng private network for the transmission of personal data of

9 National contact points for eHealth means organisational and technical gateways for the provision of Cross-
order eHealth Information Services under the responsibility of the Member States.
10 See  Agreement  between  National  Authorities  or  National  Organisations  responsible  for  National  Contact
Points for eHealth on the Criteria required for the participation in Cross-Border eHealth Information Services,
available at: https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/health/files/ehealth/docs/ev_20170509_co06_en.pdf
11 Article  29  Data  Protection  Working  Party, 
https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/document.cfm?action=display&doc_id=52057
12 EDPS 
implementing  decision  repealing  Commission
Implementing  Decision  2011/890/EU  providing  the  rules  for  the  establishment,  the  management  and  the
functioning of the network of national responsible authorities on eHealth, 12 December 2018.
13 See article 52 of Regulation 2018/1725.

informal  comments  on  the  Commission  draft 

to  eHealth  Network,

available 

letter 

at:

5

patients from one Member State to another be considered as a processing of personal
data?

8. The definition of “processing” both in the GDPR and Regulation 2018/1725 means “any operation
or set of operations which is performed on personal data or on sets of personal data, whether or not
by automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or
alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making
available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction” of data.14 According to the
information provided by the European Commission in its request, including in the draft Implementing
Decision, the eHDSI system enables the exchange of electronic health data of European patients, in
particular e-prescriptions and summaries of patient medical records, between national contact points,
using a secure private network (hereinafter TESTA), set up by the Commission.15 Therefore, if personal
data are being made available through a private network, it results that these are being processed,
independently of the fact that the Commission may or may not have access to it, or of adequate
safeguards implemented for its transmission (such as a secured and encrypted connection).

9.  It  is  relevant  to  address  here  the  issue  of  the  encryption  of  the  private  network  connection
mentioned  by  the  Commission.  Encryption  is  a  commonly  known  technique  used  to  protect  the
confidentiality  of  the  transmitted  information,  thus  of  the  personal  data  involved.  The  EU  legal
framework imposes a duty to secure the personal data16 by implementing the appropriate technical
and organizational measures on a risk-based approach. The implementation of encryption techniques
as referred to in article 33 par.1(c) of Regulation 2018/1725 is the process of encoding the information
where personal data are included in such a way that only authorized parties may access it. Moreover,
it does not affect the fact that personal data, even though encrypted, are still personal data.

ii.

Is it correct to consider the following two processing operations as separate, with possibly
different controllers?

a. Processing of personal data of personnel from National Contact Points for eHealth

for the purpose of managing their access rights to the eHDSI core services;

b. Processing of personal data of patients for the purpose of their exchange from one

Member State to another.

10. In order to properly answer the question asked by the Commission, it is necessary to define the
two different scenarios presented and analyse whether they are two separate processing operations,
or on the contrary, these should be considered as a ‘set of operations’.

11. With regard to the first processing operation, the purpose of managing access rights to the eHDSI
core services needs to be analysed. Firstly, the concept of “core services” shall be clarified. According
to Regulation 283/2014, core services are “central hubs of digital service infrastructures aiming to

14 See article 3(3) of Regulation 2018/1725 and article 4(2) GDPR.
15 See information provided in the request letter; see information provided in recitals (5), (6) and (7) of the draft
Implementing Decision. Please note that the numbering may be subject to changes in the adopted version of
the document.
16 See article 33 of Regulation 2018/1725 and article 32 GDPR.

6

ensure  trans-European  connectivity,  access  and  interoperability”. 17 The  eHDSI  core  services  are
provided by the Commission,18 and include the Configuration Services (hereinafter CS) and Central
Terminology  Server  (hereinafter  CTS).  The  CS  is  used  by  each  National  Contact  Point  eHealth
(hereinafter NCPeH) gateway to publish and store technical details and configuration information. As
a specification, no personal data are stored, transmitted or processed through it. The CTS is used to
store health code systems and the Members States’ translation of medical terms. Semantic experts
appointed by the Member States’ authorities have access to the CTS upon request to the Commission;
however, they have no access to patients’ personal data. Likewise, access rights are also granted to
experts  appointed  by  Member  States  with  regard  to  the  eHDSI  Test  Platform,  a  tool  for  users’
registration to the eHDSI test events19 and to grant them access to the restricted area of the eHDSI
ArtDecor platform, which supports the creation and maintenance of templates and commonly agreed
formats between the Member States. In sum, according to the documents provided, it seems that the
processing of personal data of staff from NCPeH is carried out with the sole purpose to enable user
account management and authorisation mechanism within the eHDSI core services.

12.  According  to  the  documents  provided  by  the  Commission,  with  regard  to  the  processing  of
patients’ personal data, there currently are two use cases: ePrescriptions and electronic patients’
summaries. Thus, the personal data processed in this case concern patients’ health data. The purpose
of such processing is embodied in the Agreement between National Authorities on the Criteria for the
participation  in  Cross-border  eHealth  Information  Services  (hereinafter  “the  Agreement”)  as
“achieving a high level of trust and security, enhancing continuity of care and ensuring access to safe
and high-quality safeguards” and “ensuring continuity of cross-border healthcare”.20 This purpose is
envisaged in Article 14.2. of Directive 2011/24/EU. Therefore, from the documents provided, it stems
that the purpose of the processing of personal health data of patients is to enhance and ensure the
continuity of cross-border healthcare.

13. In line with the information made available and following the analysis, it appears that the two
processing operations described above could in fact be considered as separate, since their purposes
are clearly different. This may potentially lead to a different allocation of responsibilities among the
actors involved.

iii.

Considering that Member States shall be regarded as joint controllers for the processing
of patients’ data in eHDSI as confirmed by the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party in
its opinion (see page 2 of Annex V)21 is it correct to consider as explained in the background

17 Article 2.1(d) of Regulation (EU) No 283/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014
on  guidelines  for  trans-European  networks  in  the  area  of  telecommunications  infrastructure  and  repealing
Decision No 1336/97/EC.
18 Governance model for eHDSI during the CEF funding as adopted by the eHealth Network on 21 November
2016, p. 11.
19 Draft Data Protection Record of eHDSI Test Platform.
20 Clauses I.1(1) and I.1(4) of the Agreement between National Authorities or national Organisations responsible
for National Contact Points for eHealth on the Criteria required for the participation in Cross-Border eHealth
Information Services.
21 Please note that, while the EDPB has not expressly confirmed the existence of joint controllership in its letter
assessing  the  agreement  mentioned  in footnote  10,  it  has  stated  the  following:  “The  Working  Party
acknowledges that both the Member State of affiliation [...] and the Member State of treatment [...] are involved
in this process and therefore share the responsibility of ensuring that the fundamental right to privacy of the
individual is protected in accordance with the relevant data protection law.”

7

information in this note that, with regard to the processing of patients’ data in the eHDSI,
the Commission is a processor?

14. In order to answer this question, it is necessary to analyse the actual role of the Commission with
regard to the processing of patients’ data in the eHDSI. As stated by the WP29 in Opinion 1/2010 on
the concepts of “controller” and “processor”, “the role of processor does not stem from the nature of
an entity processing data but from its concrete activities in a specific context.”22 Furthermore, the
Opinion also states that, when it comes to assessing the determination of the purposes and the means
with a view to attribute the role of data controller, “while determining the purpose of the processing
would in any case trigger the qualification as controller, determining the means would imply control
only when the determination concerns the essential elements of the means. In this perspective, it is
well  possible  that  the  technical  and  organizational  means  are  determined  exclusively by  the  data
processor”.23

15. The decision to use the eHDSI system was agreed upon by the voluntary members of the eHealth
Network in the Agreement, as part of the eHealth network objectives foreseen in article 14(2) of
Directive  2011/24/EU.  In  this  regard,  it  is  noteworthy  to  mention  that  the  type  of  data  to  be
exchanged, listed as an essential element of the means according to the WP29, was also decided by
the eHealth Network in the Guidelines adopted for that purpose. It is for the eHealth Network to set
the priorities of the eHDSI and oversee its operations, being also responsible for deciding on guidelines
on  the  operation  of  the  eHDSI  and  the  strategy  regarding  the  standards  used. 24 Moreover,  in
accordance with article 4 of the draft Implementing Decision,25 it may provide guidance on the security
of the eHDSI and facilitate greater interoperability by agreeing which requirements, specifications and
standards should be used to achieve technical, semantic and organisational interoperability between
national digital healthcare systems.

16. In this regard, Article 6 of the draft Implementing Decision states that the Commission shall provide
support to the eHealth Network, composed by representatives of Member States, in relation to the
tasks referred to in Article 4.26 In its letter of 11 April 2018 assessing the Agreement, the WP29 also
acknowledged that, as supplier of the network infrastructure provided for the transmission of health
data, the Commission has “a certain degree of involvement” in the processing of personal data, “also
in  terms  of  defining  security  and  communication  standards”. 27 Furthermore,  the  Commission  is
responsible for the development and maintenance of the eHDSI core services. According to Article 6
of the draft Implementing Decision, this entails “developing appropriate technical and organisational
measures related to the core services of the eHDSI”, among other tasks. Thus, the Commission is in

22 WP 169 Opinion 1/2010 on the concepts of “controller” and “processor”, p. 25. Please note that this opinion
is currently under revision.
23 WP 169 Opinion 1/2010 on the concepts of “controller” and “processor”, p. 14. Please note that this opinion
is currently under revision.
24 Governance model for eHDSI during the CEF funding as adopted by the eHealth Network on 21 November
2016, p. 8.
25 Please note that the numbering of the articles in the draft Implementing Decision may be subject to changes
in the adopted version of the document.
26 Idem.
27 WP29 Letter of 11 April 2018 regarding the Agreement between National Authorities on the Criteria required
to participate in Cross-Border eHealth Information Services, p. 4.

8

charge of the technical planning and programming of the DSI’s software and services,28 including the
provision of the TESTA-ng private network. As seen above, personal health data are transmitted via
the TESTA-ng private network from one NCPeH to another, through an encrypted channel established
between both NCPeHs as an additional safeguard. The encrypted channel will be set up in a technical
way that will guarantee that the Commission cannot access the personal health data in clear text.29

17. Therefore, in the present case, and based on the documentation provided, it appears that, even
though the Commission is involved in some of the procedures regarding the development of technical
and organisational solutions, as well as the systems’ security elements, it does not have decision-
making power in terms of defining the purpose or the essential means related to this processing
operation. Thus, as the EDPS also states in its informal comments from December 2018,30 given the
legal framework related to the definition of the purposes and means of the infrastructure, and the
strict limitations of the Commission’s tasks to ensure the security of the core services of the eHDSI,
the EDPB and the EDPS consider that, in this specific situation and for the concrete operation of the
processing of patients’ data within the eHDSI, there is no reason to dissent from the Commission’s
assessment.

18. Finally, the EDPB and the EDPS take note that the Commission has chosen to revise an adopted
Implementing Decision in order to clearly clarify its role within this processing operation and to set
the rules governing its role as a processor, including those laid down in points (a) to (h) of Article 29(3)
of Regulation 2018/1725 (“Processor”). Nevertheless, the EDPB and the EDPS ask the Commission to
make sure that all its duties, as specified in the applicable data protection legislation, as a processor
of this processing operation, be set in the draft Implementing Act.

28 Governance model for eHDSI during the CEF funding as adopted by the eHealth Network on 21 November
2016, p. 11.
29 The documents sent to WP29 which describe the system, p. 7.
30 EDPS informal  comments  on  the  Commission  draft 
implementing  decision  repealing  Commission
Implementing  Decision  2011/890/EU  providing  the  rules  for  the  establishment,  the  management  and  the
functioning of the network of national responsible authorities on eHealth, 12 December 2018.

9

