1/37

Notice No. 121/2019 of June 19, 2019

Subject: Attached requests for opinions:
• 
Procedure for assent (draft decree of the Walloon Region) to the Protocol, done in Brussels on February 18, 2015, amending the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Uzbekistan aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion concerning income and wealth taxes, signed in Brussels on November 14, 1996, as amended by the Additional Protocol, signed in Tashkent on April 17, 1998 (CO-A-2019-107);
• 
Procedure for assent (draft decree of the Walloon Region) to the second Protocol amending the Convention between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion concerning income and capital gains taxes, signed in London on March 13, 2014 (CO-A-2019-108);
• 
Procedure for assent (draft decree of the Walloon Region) to the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Cayman Islands for the exchange of information in tax matters, done in George Town, Grand Cayman, on April 24, 2014 (CO-A-2019-109) and procedure for assent (draft decree of the French Community) to the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Cayman Islands for the exchange of information in tax matters, done in George Town, Grand Cayman, on April 24, 2014 (CO-A-2019-109);
• 
Procedure for assent (draft decree of the Walloon Region) to the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Uganda aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax fraud concerning income and wealth taxes, done in Kampala on July 26, 2007, and its Protocol (CO-A-2019-110).

Notice 121/2019 - 2/37
The Data Protection Authority (hereinafter "the Authority");

Considering the law of December 3, 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, in particular Articles 23 and 26 (hereinafter "LCA");

Considering Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter "GDPR");

Considering the law of July 30, 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "LTD");

Considering the requests for opinions from Ms. Pascale Delcomminette, General Administrator of the Wallonie-Bruxelles International agency for the Minister-President of the Walloon Government, received respectively on March 26, 2019 (CO-A-2019-107/109/110) and March 29, 2019 (CO-A-2019-108), as well as a supplementary request for an opinion received on May 13, 2019 (CO-A-2019-109);

Considering the supplementary information provided on April 12, 2019, and May 17, 2019;

Considering the report from Ms. Alexandra Jaspar, Director of the Knowledge Center of the Data Protection Authority;

Issues, on June 19, 2019, the following opinion:

I.
SUBJECT OF THE REQUEST

1. The Walloon Minister-President (hereinafter "the applicant") submits for opinion to the Authority four draft decrees of the Walloon Region concerning assent to conventions (and their possible amending protocols) concluded between the Kingdom of Belgium and various countries, both European and non-European, aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion concerning income and wealth taxes (hereinafter collectively, "the Conventions").

2. These are agreements concluded with the following countries:

(a) Uganda

Notice 121/2019 - 3/37
- 
Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Uganda aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax fraud concerning income and wealth taxes, done in Kampala on July 26, 2007;
- 
Protocol [amending the aforementioned Convention] done in Kampala on July 26, 2007;
- 
Protocol amending the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Uganda aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax fraud concerning income and wealth taxes signed in Kampala on July 26, 2007, done in Kampala on April 25, 2014 (hereinafter "the 2nd Protocol" concluded with Uganda),

hereinafter collectively referred to as "the Convention concluded with Uganda";

(b) Uzbekistan

- 
Convention between the Republic of Uzbekistan and the Kingdom of Belgium aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion concerning income and wealth taxes signed in Brussels on November 14, 1996;
- 
Protocol done in Brussels on February 18, 2015, amending the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Uzbekistan aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion concerning income and wealth taxes signed in Brussels on November 14, 1996, as amended by the Additional Protocol signed in Tashkent on April 17, 1998;
- 
Additional Protocol amending the Convention between the Republic of Uzbekistan and the Kingdom of Belgium aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion concerning income and wealth taxes signed in Brussels on November 14, 1996, signed in Tashkent on April 17, 1998,

hereinafter collectively referred to as "the Convention concluded with Uzbekistan";

(c) Cayman Islands

- 
Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Cayman Islands for the exchange of information in tax matters, done in George Town on April 24, 2014,

hereinafter "the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands";

(d) United Kingdom and Northern Ireland
Notice 121/2019 - 4/37  
-  
Convention between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion in the area of income tax and capital gains, signed in Brussels on June 1, 1987;  
-  
Protocol amending the aforementioned Convention, done in Paris on June 24, 2009;  
-  
Second protocol amending the aforementioned Convention, as amended by the Protocol signed in Paris on June 24, 2009, done in London on March 13, 2014,  

hereinafter referred to as the "Convention concluded with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland."  

3. Through various opinions issued in March 2019, the Council of State determined that the Data Protection Authority should provide an opinion on the draft decrees of the Walloon Region or the French Community consenting to the aforementioned conventions insofar as they involve exchanges of tax information, "which includes personal data."  

4. The Authority decided to jointly address these requests for opinions, considering that the aforementioned Conventions raise similar remarks regarding the protection of personal data.  

II.  
PROVISIONS EXAMINED  

5. The Authority focuses its examination on the provisions describing the modalities for the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the contracting states, as well as the provisions describing the purpose of these exchanges of information, where applicable, primarily listed below and throughout the remainder of the notice.  

(a) Conventions concluded with Uganda and Uzbekistan  

6. The Conventions (and their amending protocols) concluded respectively between Belgium and Uganda or Uzbekistan are identical in terms of modalities and purposes.  

1 On the draft decrees of consent from the Walloon Region: Council of State legislation section (C.E.), opinion 65.523/4 of March 25, 2019 on the Convention signed with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland and its amending protocols; C.E., opinion 65.330/4 of March 13, 2019 on the Convention signed with the Cayman Islands; opinion 65.333/4 of March 13, 2019 on the Convention signed with Uzbekistan and its amending protocols; C.E., opinion 65.331/4 of March 13, 2019 on the Convention signed with Uganda and its amending protocols. On a draft decree of consent from the French Community: C.E., opinion 65.642/4 of April 30, 2019 on the Convention signed with the Cayman Islands.
Notice 121/2019 - 5/37  
of the exchange of personal data. These Conventions aim to exchange "information that is likely to be relevant" to ensure their application, in the context where the purpose of these Conventions is to avoid double taxation and prevent tax fraud as indicated by their title.

7. Confidentiality obligations are stipulated therein: limitation of the communication of data to the tax, judicial, or administrative authorities concerned with the establishment or collection of taxes and the related judicial or administrative procedures, without excluding the possibility that this information may be used for criminal tax proceedings. It is indeed stated that "the information received

Thus, for example, the modalities for the exchange of information under the Convention concluded between the Kingdom of Belgium and Uganda are described as follows in Article 2 of the Protocol concluded between the same parties on April 25, 2014 (hereinafter "the 2014 Protocol"), which replaces Article 27 of the initial Convention of July 26, 2007:  
"(1) The competent authorities of the contracting States exchange information that is likely to be relevant for applying the provisions of this Convention or for the administration or enforcement of domestic legislation concerning taxes of any kind or denomination collected on behalf of the contracting States, their political subdivisions, or their local authorities to the extent that the taxation it provides is not contrary to the Convention. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.  
(2) The information received under paragraph 1 by a contracting State is kept secret in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic legislation of that State and is only communicated to the persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the establishment or collection of the taxes mentioned in paragraph 1, by the procedures or prosecutions concerning those taxes, by decisions on appeals related to those taxes, or by the oversight of the above. These persons or authorities use this information only for these purposes. They may disclose this information during public hearings of courts or in judgments. Notwithstanding the above, the information received by a contracting State may be used for other purposes when this possibility arises from the laws of both States and when the competent authority of the State providing the information permits this use.  
(3) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 may in no case be interpreted as imposing on a contracting State the obligation:  
(a) to take administrative measures deviating from its legislation and administrative practice or that of the other contracting State;  
(b) to provide information that could not be obtained based on its legislation or within the framework of its normal administrative practice or that of the other contracting State;  
(c) to provide information that would reveal a commercial, industrial, professional secret or a trade process or information whose communication would be contrary to public order;  
(4) If information is requested by a contracting State in accordance with this article, the other State uses the powers it has to obtain the requested information, even if it does not need it for its own tax purposes. The obligation in the preceding sentence is subject to the limitations provided in paragraph 3 unless these limitations are likely to prevent a contracting State from communicating information solely because it does not present interest for it in the national context.  
(5) The provisions of paragraph 3 of this article may in no case be interpreted as allowing a contracting State to refuse to communicate information requested by the other contracting State because it is held by a bank, another financial institution, a trust, a foundation, an agent, or a person acting as an agent or trustee or because this information relates to the property rights of a person." Similar provisions are included in Article 2 of the Protocol made in Brussels on February 18, 2015, amending the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Uzbekistan aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion concerning income and wealth taxes signed in Brussels on November 14, 1996, as amended by the Additional Protocol signed in Tashkent on April 17, 1998.  
Article 2 § 1 of the Protocol amending the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Uganda aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax fraud concerning income and wealth taxes signed in Kampala on July 26, 2007, made in Kampala on April 25, 2014; Article 2 § 1 of the Protocol amending the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Uzbekistan aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion concerning income and wealth taxes, signed in Brussels on November 14, 1996 as amended by the Additional Protocol signed in Tashkent on April 17, 1998.
Notice 121/2019 - 6/37  
by a contracting State are kept confidential in the same manner as the information obtained under the internal legislation of that State and are communicated only to the persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the establishment or collection of the taxes [mentioned in paragraph 1], with the procedures or prosecutions regarding these taxes, with the decisions on appeals related to these taxes, or with the oversight of the above.  

8. Reciprocity in the exchange of information is imposed by these Conventions to the extent that it is explicitly stipulated that the country from which the information is requested cannot refuse to provide it, even if it does not need the requested information for its own tax purposes.  

(b) Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands  

9. The exchanged information and modalities of information exchange are described in Article 1 of the Convention, referring to a dual purpose of processing regarding the exchange of "likely relevant" information for the establishment and collection of taxes on the one hand, and for tax investigations or prosecutions on the other.  

10. The peculiarity of this convention is twofold. First, it specifies what level of information the requesting authority must provide to the requested authority to establish the "likely relevant" nature of the requested tax data. Second, it is  

4 Ibid., paragraph 2.  
5 Ibid., paragraph 4.  
6 Article 1 of the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands states as follows: "The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties agree to assist each other by exchanging information likely relevant for the administration and enforcement of the internal legislation of the Contracting Parties concerning the taxes covered by this Agreement. This information is that which is likely relevant for the determination, establishment, and collection of these taxes, for the recovery and enforcement of tax claims, or for tax investigations or prosecutions. The information is exchanged in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and treated as confidential according to the modalities provided in Article 8. The rights and protections afforded to individuals under the legislative or regulatory provisions or administrative practices of the requested Party remain applicable to the extent that they do not unduly hinder or delay an effective exchange of information."  

7 Article 5.5 of the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands states as follows:  
"a) the identity of the person subject to a review or investigation;  
b) the details regarding the information sought, including its nature and the form in which the requesting Party wishes to receive the information from the requested Party;  
c) the tax purpose for which the information is requested;  
d) the reasons to believe that the requested information is held in the requested Party or is in the possession or under the control of a person subject to the jurisdiction of the requested Party;  
e) to the extent known, the name and address of any person believed to be in possession of the requested information;
Notice 121/2019 - 7/37  
specified that "the information must be exchanged, whether the act subject to the investigation constitutes a criminal offense under the law of the Requested Party if it had occurred in that Party" (Article 5 § 1 of the Convention).

11. Furthermore, the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands contains provisions similar to those found in the other Conventions submitted for opinion. Thus, a provision governs the confidentiality of personal data exchanged (Article 8 of this Convention), limiting the disclosure of information to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) that need to know it for the purposes of establishing or collecting taxes or for "prosecutions or decisions regarding appeals related to these taxes," similar to the provisions provided in the Conventions concluded with Uganda and Uzbekistan, as well as the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland.

12. As in the Conventions concluded with Uganda and Uzbekistan, reciprocity of information exchange is provided for in that the party from which information is requested must take all appropriate measures to provide the requested information "even if the Requested Party does not need this information for its own tax purposes" (Article 5 § 1 of the Convention).

(c) Convention concluded with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland

13. The modalities for the exchange of information are described in Article 2 of the second amending protocol signed in London on March 13, 2014, as well as in Article 26 of the basic Convention made in Brussels on June 1, 1987. It is provided that the competent authorities exchange "likely relevant" information to apply the Convention.

f) a declaration specifying that the request complies with the legislative and regulatory provisions as well as the administrative practices of the Requesting Party, that, if the requested information fell within the jurisdiction of the Requesting Party, the competent authority of that Party could obtain the information under its law or in the normal course of its administrative practices and that the request complies with this Agreement.

8 Article 8 of the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands states as follows: "Any information received by a Contracting Party under this Agreement shall be kept confidential and may only be disclosed to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) under the jurisdiction of that Contracting Party who are concerned with the establishment, collection, recovery, or enforcement of the taxes covered by this Agreement, or with prosecutions or decisions regarding appeals related to these taxes. These persons or authorities may only use this information for these purposes. They may refer to it during public hearings of courts or in judicial decisions. The information may not be disclosed to any other person, entity, or authority or to any other foreign authority without the express written authorization of the competent authority of the Requested Party."

9 Article 2 of the second protocol concluded with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland states as follows: "The competent authorities of the Contracting States exchange the likely relevant information to apply the provisions of this Convention or for the administration or enforcement of domestic legislation relating to taxes of any kind or designation collected on behalf of the Contracting States, their political subdivisions, or their local authorities."
Notice 121/2019 - 8/37

14. Provisions regarding the confidentiality of information and the limitation of its transmission solely to the relevant tax, administrative, and judicial authorities are included in Article 26 of the Basic Convention (supplementary information transmitted to the Authority on May 17, 2019)10.

15. Regarding the purpose of the exchanges, Article 26 of the Basic Convention establishes that data exchanges are within the framework of tax assessment and collection, as well as related procedures and prosecutions. Just like the Conventions concluded with Uganda and Uzbekistan, it is therefore not excluded that this information may be used for criminal tax procedure purposes.

16. The particularity of this Convention, from the perspective of the modalities of exchanging personal data, concerns the reciprocity of information exchanges. This reciprocity is not explicitly stipulated but seems to arise from the economy of the Convention in an intra-European context of exchanges (see Title 3 "Identification of the legal basis - public interest mission and reciprocity of the exchanges envisaged").

III. 
EXAMINATION OF THE REQUEST FOR OPINION

1. Applicable Law

17. The information exchanges envisaged concern Belgian taxpayers, as indicated in Articles 1, 2.3.a in conjunction with 3.1.h.i of the Convention. These information exchanges imply that the taxation it provides is not contrary to the Convention. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.

10 Article 26 of the Convention concluded with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland states as follows: "1. The competent authorities of the contracting States exchange the necessary information to apply this Convention or the domestic legislation of the contracting States relating to the taxes covered by the Convention to the extent that the taxation it provides is not contrary to the Convention, as well as to prevent tax fraud. The information received by a contracting State is kept secret in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic legislation of that State and is only communicated to the persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the establishment or collection of the taxes covered by the Convention, by the procedures or prosecutions concerning these taxes, or by decisions on appeals related to these taxes. These persons or authorities use this information only for these purposes. They may refer to this information during public hearings of courts or in judgments. 2. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this article may in no case be interpreted as imposing on a contracting State the obligation: 
a) to take administrative measures deviating from its legislation and administrative practice or that of the other contracting State; 
b) to provide information that could not be obtained on the basis of its legislation or in the context of its normal administrative practice or that of the other contracting State; 
c) to provide information that would reveal a commercial, industrial, or professional secret or a commercial process or information whose communication would be contrary to public order."

Notice 121/2019 - 9/37
therefore involves the processing of data related to identified or identifiable natural persons, namely, personal data as defined in Article 4.1 of the GDPR.

18. The communication of this information to foreign tax authorities constitutes the processing of personal data to which the GDPR and Title 1 of the LTD apply.

2. Data Controller(s)

19. The Conventions submitted for opinion by the Federation Wallonia-Brussels – in the context of assent agreements prepared by the French Community and the Walloon Region – were concluded by the Kingdom of Belgium, the Flemish Community, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region, and the Brussels-Capital Region.

20. The data controller(s) within the meaning of Article 4(7) of the GDPR of the processed personal data (or joint controllers) is/are not designated in the texts submitted for opinion. This clarification is, however, essential to identify the obligations and responsibilities of each concerned actor and ensure a clear attribution of responsibilities regarding the implementation of the rights of the data subjects under Articles 12 to 22 of the GDPR (such as the right of access to data, the right to information regarding the intended processing, etc.), subject to any possible restrictions under Article 23 of the GDPR and Article 37 § 2 of the LTD (see below the recommendations of the APD in point 6.2.2 "rights of the data subjects […]").

21. Thus, for example, the Authority notes that according to the Convention concluded with Uganda, the competent authority, concerning Belgium, is "the Minister of Finance or his authorized representative" (Article 3.1.e of the Convention), without specifying whether or not this also refers to the data controller within the meaning of the GDPR.

22. It is the applicant's responsibility to explicitly designate the data controller in each of the Conventions.
Notice 121/2019 - 10/37  
3. Identification of the legal basis - public interest mission and reciprocity of the 
envisaged exchanges  

3.1 Analysis of the specific case and applicable principles  

23. The Authority considers that the envisaged exchange of personal data can be regarded as 
necessary for the execution of a public interest mission or related to the exercise of 
public authority vested in the data controller within the meaning of Article 6.1.e of the 
GDPR, given that, in this case, Belgium's interest lies in obtaining comparable data 
from the concerned countries.  

24. The Authority indeed recalls that according to consistent case law, the notion of public 
interest must be interpreted restrictively. The invocation of a public interest would not 
be convincing if it were a matter of Belgium recognizing a unilateral interest of a third 
country. Therefore, the exchange of tax data is legitimate only if it is reciprocal, as 
emphasized by the Privacy Protection Commission in its opinion 61/2014 of December 17, 
2014, regulating the communication of information related to financial accounts by 
Belgian financial institutions and the Federal Public Service Finance, within the framework 
of an automatic exchange of information at the international level and for tax purposes 
(paragraphs 26 and 27). The EDPB has also confirmed the importance of this reciprocity 
condition in the context of transfers based on the "public interest" derogation within 
international cooperation (see point 6.3.1 of Chapter 6 dedicated to "data transfers to 
third countries").  

25. Subject to all reservations regarding the interpretation of tax provisions related to the 
reciprocity of data exchanges in the Conventions submitted for opinion, the Authority 
understands that reciprocity is provided for concerning the Conventions concluded with 
Uganda, Uzbekistan, and the Cayman Islands. It is specifically stipulated that the country 
from which the information is requested cannot refuse to provide information if it does 
not need the requested information for its own tax purposes.  

26. Such a provision has not been included in the Convention concluded with the United 
Kingdom and Northern Ireland.  

3.2 Recommendations  

27. Subject to all reservations again regarding the interpretation of tax provisions, the 
Authority understands based on the economy of the Convention and its purposes, that it 
does not serve the unilateral interest of the United Kingdom or Ireland, and that reciprocity 
of information exchanges could constitute a prerequisite for the Convention concluded 
within the framework of intra-European exchanges. However, the Authority recommends 
that the applicant verify to what extent this reciprocity indeed arises from the economy of 
the Convention and/or the application of European tax law to this Convention between 
Belgium and the United Kingdom/Northern Ireland, and, failing that, ensure to include 
provisions in the Convention guaranteeing this reciprocity, similar to the Conventions 
concluded with non-European countries such as Uganda, Uzbekistan, and the Cayman 
Islands.  

28. Finally, the Authority emphasizes that the transfer based on a public interest does not 
relieve the applicant of its obligation to comply with Article 44 of the GDPR in the case of 
transfers of personal data to a third country. Under this article, appropriate safeguards 
must indeed be in place, regardless of the legal basis for the transfer to third countries 
(see the remarks included under the title 6 "Data transfers to third countries").  

4. Purpose(s)  

4.1 Applicable principle  

29. The purposes of processing must be determined and explicit, in accordance with Article 
5.1.b of the GDPR.
Notice 121/2019 - 12/37  
4.2 Case at hand  

30. The Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands is the most explicit regarding the purposes of processing. This Convention provides for a dual purpose, namely, the establishment and collection of taxes on the one hand, and the conduct of investigations or prosecutions in tax matters, on the other.  

31. It is further specified that these investigations or prosecutions may or may not be of a criminal nature. Article 5 § 1 of the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands states that "this information must be exchanged, whether the act subject to the investigation constitutes a criminal offense under the law of the Requested Party if it occurred in that Party."  

32. The Conventions concluded with Uganda and Uzbekistan also provide for the possibility of transmitting the information thus obtained to "courts and administrative bodies" for the purposes of investigation and tax prosecution, without excluding the possibility that this information may be used for criminal tax proceedings. The Authority notes that a limitation on data processing is provided based on tax purposes, unless authorized by the State providing the data in accordance with its legislation. For example, the Protocol of the Convention concluded with Uganda and the Protocol of the Convention concluded with Uzbekistan state as follows in their Article 2.2:  

"The information received by a contracting State is kept confidential in the same manner as information obtained under the internal legislation of that State and is only communicated to the persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the establishment or collection of the taxes mentioned in paragraph 1, by the procedures or prosecutions regarding these taxes,  

15 Article 1 of the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Cayman Islands: "The competent authorities of the contracting Parties agree to assist each other by exchanging information that is likely to be relevant for the administration and enforcement of the internal legislation of the contracting Parties regarding the taxes covered by this Agreement. This information is that which is likely to be relevant for the determination, establishment, and collection of these taxes, for the recovery and enforcement of tax claims, or for investigations or prosecutions in tax matters. The information is exchanged in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and treated as confidential according to the terms provided in Article 8. The rights and protections afforded to individuals under the legislative or regulatory provisions or administrative practices of the Requested Party remain applicable insofar as they do not unduly hinder or delay an effective exchange of information."  

16 Article 2 § 2 of the Protocol concluded between Belgium and Uganda on April 25, 2014 (hereinafter "the 2014 Protocol"), which replaces Article 27 of the initial Convention of July 26, 2007: "[...] 1 (2) The information received under paragraph 1 by a contracting State is kept confidential in the same manner as information obtained under the internal legislation of that State and is only communicated to the persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the establishment or collection of the taxes mentioned in paragraph 1, by the procedures or prosecutions regarding these taxes, by decisions on appeals related to these taxes, or by the oversight of the above. These persons or authorities use this information only for these purposes. They may disclose this information during public hearings of courts or in judgments. [...]".
Notice 121/2019 - 13/37  
by the decisions on the appeals related to these taxes, or by the oversight of the above.  
These persons or authorities use this information only for these purposes. They may  
disclose this information during public hearings of courts or in judgments. Notwithstanding the above, the information received by a contracting State  
may be used for other purposes when this possibility arises from the law of both  
States and when the competent authority of the State providing the information authorizes  
this use.  

33. The Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands contains similar provisions in its  
Article 817.  

34. The Authority believes that clarification is necessary in this regard, and that it  
should be possible to clearly deduce from the Conventions or assent decrees whether the  
exchange of personal data envisaged concerns solely the possibility of establishing and  
collecting taxes by tax administrations or also conducting investigations, and possibly  
ensuring the criminal prosecution of tax fraud. This remark also applies to the  
Convention concluded with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, whose Article 26  
includes data exchanges in the context of tax collection and recovery, as well as related  
procedures and prosecutions, without excluding subsequent criminal processing.  

4.3 Recommendations  

35. Regarding the Conventions concluded with Uganda, Uzbekistan, as well as the  
United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, the Authority recommends that the legislator  
prioritize an explicit mention of the intended purposes and subsequent processing, similar  
to the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands, which clearly mentions the  
possibility of subsequent use for criminal purposes of the information collected through  
intergovernmental data exchange.  

17 Article 8 of the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands: “Any information received by a contracting party under this  
Agreement shall be kept confidential and may only be disclosed to persons or authorities (including courts and  
administrative bodies) under the jurisdiction of that contracting party who are concerned with the establishment,  
collection, recovery, or enforcement of the taxes covered by this Agreement, or with the prosecutions or decisions  
related to appeals concerning these taxes. These persons or authorities may only use this information for these  
purposes. They may refer to it during public hearings of courts or in judicial decisions. The information may not be  
disclosed to any other person, entity, or authority or to any other foreign authority without the express written  
authorization of the competent authority of the requested Party.”  

18 See point 12 of notice No. 61/2014 of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy dated December 17, 2014, on the  
draft law regulating the communication of information related to financial accounts by Belgian financial institutions and  
the SPF Finance, in the context of an automatic exchange of information at the international level and for tax purposes:  
“The Commission draws attention to the fact that it is not clearly deducible from the draft law whether this indication of  
purpose concerns solely the possibility of establishing and collecting taxes by tax administrations or also investigations  
and possibly the criminal prosecution of tax fraud.”
Notice 121/2019 - 14/37  
in its article 5 § 1, provided that such further processing is legally possible, which the data controller must ensure, as specified below.

36. In general, the Authority specifies that it is the responsibility of the data controller to assess, taking into account the applicable tax legislation and case law, to what extent the Belgian or foreign tax authority may or may not use as evidence before a criminal court the information obtained through intergovernmental administrative cooperation. It is also the applicant's responsibility to verify which instruments of criminal cooperation apply to the States parties to the Conventions, and, where applicable, to what extent they restrict or not the possibility for these member States to process the tax information obtained via the Convention for the purposes of combating non-tax offenses, such as money laundering, corruption, or the financing of terrorism. The data controller must, in this regard, apply the relevant legislation and tax treaties, such as, for example, the OECD and Council of Europe Convention of January 25, 1988, concerning mutual administrative assistance in tax matters as amended by the 2010 Protocol, and the following countries are listed on the OECD website in this regard.

19 The Authority refers for information to the developments reserved for this theme by the Privacy Protection Commission in its opinion No. 61/2014 of December 17, 2014, on a draft law regulating the communication of information related to financial accounts by Belgian financial institutions and the Federal Public Service Finance, within the framework of an automatic exchange of information at the international level and for tax purposes (title B "Purpose Principle – tax purposes vs. criminal investigations").

This opinion was based on article 4 § 2 of the OECD Convention of January 25, 1988, which limited the exchange of data "to a maximum of those that are relevant for initiating criminal proceedings, specifying that a party may not use the information thus obtained as evidence before a criminal court without having obtained the prior authorization of the party that provided it." This provision has since been removed by the 2010 amending Protocol (http://www.oecd.org/fr/ctp/echange-de-renseignements-fiscaux/convention-concernant-l-assistance-administrative-mutuelle-en-matiere-fiscale.htm).

This convention, in its 1988 version, also aimed to avoid any conflict with the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, which led the Privacy Commission to conclude that the information obtained through tax administrative cooperation should be obtained based on an appropriate criminal cooperation instrument applicable to both contracting States.

To the extent that current or past provisions of this Convention still imply a limitation on the non-tax purposes of processing exchanged tax data, it is the applicant's responsibility to verify (a) to what extent this OECD convention applies to the co-contractors: Uganda, Uzbekistan, and the Cayman Islands are explicitly listed as parties to this convention on the OECD website (consulted on May 8, 2019 in this regard), but not Uzbekistan, which is nonetheless a member of the OECD, and (b) which instruments of criminal cooperation may apply to the States parties to the Conventions.

20 See the Council of Europe press release of September 25, 2009 "Combating Tax Fraud," https://conseil-europe.delegfrance.org/Lutte-contre-la-fraude-fiscale-convention-Conseil-de-l-Europe-OCDE, versus the Deliberation of the Federal Authority Committee of the Privacy Protection Commission No. 24/2016 of June 30, 2016, § 20 and 21. In its Deliberation of the Federal Authority Committee No. 24/2016, the Privacy Protection Commission of June 30, 2016, indicates that Belgian tax legislation cannot be interpreted in such a way as to allow the Federal Public Service Finance to ignore the fundamental rules of personal data protection, including the distinction between administrative and criminal use of data and the prohibition of transferring personal data to countries without an adequate level of data protection. The Privacy Protection Commission, more specifically, its Federal Authority Committee, then considered that the Convention submitted for opinion should be interpreted in such a way that the reuse by the Federal Public Service Finance of data obtained in the context of its missions is compatible with the initial purposes of collection only if such data is used solely for tax purposes, excluding purposes other than tax (for example, mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, money laundering, corruption, or combating terrorism).
Notice 121/2019 - 15/37  
Table of participating jurisdictions: Uganda, Cayman Islands, United Kingdom, and Northern Ireland.  

37. It is also the responsibility of the applicant to verify to what extent the law of December 16, 2015, regulating the communication of information related to financial accounts by Belgian financial institutions and the Federal Public Service (FPS) Finance, should be taken into account in the context of an automatic exchange of information at the international level and for tax purposes (see the remarks under title 5.3 "one-off versus automatic data exchanges"). If applicable, the Authority recalls the interpretation of this legislation by the Federal Authority Committee of the Privacy Commission in its deliberation no. 25/2017 of August 24, 2017, in the sense that it does not allow the reuse for purposes other than tax-related of information obtained within the framework of administrative cooperation (§ 20 and 21):  

"The (tax) legislation of Belgium and Europe cannot be interpreted in such a way that it would allow the FPS Finance to disregard the fundamental rules of personal data protection, including the distinction between administrative and criminal use of data and the prohibition of transferring personal data to countries without an adequate level of data protection.  

The Committee therefore considers that Article 17 of the law of December 16, 2015, must be interpreted in such a way that (the authorization for) the reuse (by jurisdictions other than tax authorities) of data obtained for non-tax matters (for example, judicial assistance in criminal matters, money laundering, corruption, or the fight against terrorism), or for transfer to countries without an adequate level of data protection is, in principle, excluded from all legitimate data processing."  

5. Proportionality  

5.1 Applicable Principles  

38. The personal data processed must be adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed, in accordance with Article 5.1.d of the GDPR.  

39. In order to respect the principle of proportionality, it is important to clearly specify the categories of data processed by purpose of processing.  

21 See the table of participating jurisdictions on the website http://www.oecd.org/fr/ctp/echange-de-renseignements-fiscaux/convention-concernant-l-assistance-administrative-mutuelle-en-matiere-fiscale.htm. It should be noted that there is an ambiguity in this regard, which it is the responsibility of the data controller to clarify, concerning the Republic of Uzbekistan, an OECD country but not included in the list of participating jurisdictions via the aforementioned link.  

22 See also footnote 20 on this subject.
Notice 121/2019 - 16/37

40. When the legal basis for the processing of personal data is a public interest mission, as is the case here, Article 6.3, read in conjunction with Articles 22 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (hereinafter, "the ECHR"), stipulates that the essential elements of data processing must be included in the regulation. Therefore, the regulation must specify the types or categories of data that are subject to processing.

5.2 Analysis of the case at hand: categories of data concerned

41. The Authority notes that the type of data processed is defined very broadly in the Conventions concluded with Uganda and Uzbekistan. It is indeed provided that "the competent authorities of the contracting States exchange information that is likely to be relevant for the application of the provisions of this [Convention] or for the administration or enforcement of domestic legislation regarding taxes of any nature or denomination collected on behalf of the contracting States, their political subdivisions, or their local authorities to the extent that the taxation it provides for is not contrary to the Convention" (Article 2 of the Protocol concluded with Uganda on April 25, 2014; Article 2 of the Protocol concluded with Uzbekistan on February 18, 2015). The same applies to the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands, where the exchanged data are also described as "information likely to be relevant," for both administrative purposes and for investigations and prosecutions in criminal matters. Similarly, in the Convention concluded with the United Kingdom and Ireland, the exchange concerns "information likely to be relevant" for applying the provisions of the Convention or for applying domestic legislation regarding taxes.

42. The use of the term "likely to be relevant" without providing any definition in the text of the Convention raises the question of its imprecision. This expression

23 Article 1 of the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands: "The competent authorities of the contracting Parties agree to assist each other by exchanging information likely to be relevant for the administration and enforcement of the domestic legislation of the contracting Parties regarding the taxes covered by this Agreement. This information is that which is likely to be relevant for the determination, assessment, and collection of taxes, for the recovery and enforcement of tax claims, or for investigations or prosecutions in tax matters."
24 Article 2 of the second Protocol amending the Convention between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion in income and capital gains taxes, signed in Brussels on June 1, 1987, as amended by the Protocol signed in Paris on June 24, 2009.
Notice 121/2019 - 17/37  
is borrowed from Article 26 of the OECD Model Tax Convention 201425, and means, according to the commentary on this article in the preamble of this Convention, that "countries are not free to engage in 'fishing expeditions' or to request information that is not likely to be relevant to the tax situation of a given taxpayer"26. It is also stipulated in the Conventions concluded with Uzbekistan, Uganda, as well as in the one concluded with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, that the exchange of information is not restricted by the articles defining its scope ratione personae and ratione materiae, namely, Articles 1 and 2 of these Conventions. The definition of data processed as "likely relevant" is therefore particularly broad.

5.3 Recommendations – one-off versus automatic data exchanges

43. The Authority recommends that the Conventions specify in a more precise and detailed manner how the concept of "likely relevant information" will be used and applied, as far as possible.

44. For example, the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands specifically provides in its Article 5.5 the information that the requesting party must provide to the requested party when submitting a request for information, in order to demonstrate the likely relevance of the requested information:

"a) the identity of the person subject to a control or investigation;  
b) details regarding the information sought, including its nature and the form in which the requesting party wishes to receive the information from the requested party;  
c) the tax purpose for which the information is requested;  
d) the reasons to believe that the requested information is held by the requested party or is in the possession or under the control of a person subject to the jurisdiction of the requested party;  
e) to the extent known, the name and address of any person believed to be in possession of the requested information;  
f) a statement indicating that the request complies with the legislative and regulatory provisions as well as the administrative practices of the requesting party, that,  
                                               
25 OECD (2016), Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital 2014, available for reading on the following webpage:  
http://www.oecd.org/fr/fiscalite/conventions/modele-de-convention-fiscale-concernant-le-revenu-et-la-fortune-2014-version-complete-9789264239142-fr.htm.  
26 Ibid. comments on Article 26 paragraph 5 of the OECD Model Tax Convention.
Notice 121/2019 - 18/37  
if the requested information fell under the jurisdiction of the Requesting Party,  
the competent authority of that Party could obtain the information under  
its law or in the normal course of its administrative practices and that the request  
is in accordance with this Agreement.  

45. In the absence of such specifications in the Conventions themselves, and in order to allow  
the involved administrations and the concerned individuals to assess the proportionality  
of the processed data, it will be the responsibility of the data controller to ensure  
that it sufficiently justifies how a piece of information is "likely relevant"27, prior  
to the communication of this information to a third country or prior to the request  
for such information addressed to a third country, and this, based on its obligations as  
a data controller according to Article 5.2 of the GDPR.  

46. In any case, such case-by-case justification of the proportionality of the categories of  
data exchanged is only admissible to the extent that it does not involve automatic  
data exchanges. In this latter case, the categories of data exchanged should be specified  
in advance in the text of the Conventions themselves, as explained below.  

47. In this instance, the Authority understands that within the framework of the Conventions  
submitted for opinion, occasional exchanges of information are envisaged, based on  
the specific requests of the contracting states28, and that these are therefore not  
automatic data exchanges as is the case, for example, under Article 338 CIR, through  
which Council Directive 2018/822 of May 25, 2018 (amending Directive 2011/16/EU)  
was transposed into Belgian law "regarding the automatic and mandatory exchange of  
information in the tax field related to cross-border arrangements that must be reported."  

48. The Authority believes that a stricter assessment of proportionality would be warranted  
if it were a matter of establishing a framework for automatic exchanges of tax data29.  

27 See the similar remark made by the Privacy Commission in its opinion No. 13/2013 of April 24, 2013 regarding  
the draft law transposing Council Directive 2011/16/EU of February 15, 2011 on administrative cooperation  
in the field of taxation and repealing Directive 77/799/EEC, §. 30-31.  
28 See for example Article 2.4 of the Protocol concluded with Uzbekistan and Article 2.4 (identical) of the Protocol  
concluded with Uganda: "If the information is requested by a contracting state in accordance with the provisions of this  
article, the other contracting state shall use the powers it has to obtain the requested information, even if it does not  
need it for its own tax purposes"; see Article 5.1 of the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands: "The competent  
authority of the Requested Party shall provide the information upon request for the purposes set out in Article 1 […]".  
29 See opinion No. 138/2018 of the Privacy Commission of November 28, 2018 on the draft law transposing  
Directive (EU) 2018/822 of the Council of May 25, 2018 amending Directive 2011/16/EU regarding the automatic exchange.
Notice 121/2019 - 19/37  
In this context, it would not be sufficient to provide for the exchange of "presumably relevant" information between administrations, and it would be appropriate to specify the categories of data potentially involved in the exchange of information. Thus, for example, Article 338 of the Income Tax Code (CIR) does not merely indicate that Member States cooperate with each other for the purpose of automatically exchanging "the information presumably relevant for the administration and the application of the internal legislation of all Member States regarding income taxes." Article 338 CIR further specifies the categories of data involved in this exchange as well as the cases in which an exchange of data is justified.

49. Therefore, if automatic exchanges of information were contemplated within the framework of the Conventions submitted for opinion, it would be the responsibility of the applicant to indicate this in the text of the Conventions themselves, and to specify the categories of data targeted by such automatic exchange, as well as the cases in which such an exchange would be justified. It would also be the responsibility of the applicant to verify to what extent the exchange is governed by the law of December 16, 2015, regulating the communication of information related to financial accounts by Belgian financial institutions and the Federal Public Service (FPS) Finance, within the framework of an automatic exchange of information at the international level for tax purposes. The Authority refers in this regard to the mandatory exchange of information in the tax field related to cross-border arrangements that must be declared.

30 The Authority has considered that the processing of data contemplated in Article 338 of the CIR was proportionate to the objective pursued in the context where this article specifies the categories of data involved in the intergovernmental exchange of information (Opinion of the Data Protection Authority No. 138/2018 of November 28, 2018, on the draft law transposing Directive (EU) 2018/822 of the Council of May 25, 2018, amending Directive 2011/16/EU regarding the automatic and mandatory exchange of information in the tax field related to cross-border arrangements that must be declared).

31 Article 3 of the law of August 17, 2013, on administrative cooperation in the tax field: “Article 338 of the Income Tax Code 1992, replaced by the law of May 19, 2010, is replaced by the following:  
§ 1. This article establishes the rules and procedures under which Belgium and the other Member States of the European Union cooperate with each other for the purpose of exchanging information presumably relevant for the administration and application of the internal legislation of all Member States regarding income taxes. […]”

32 Article 338 CIR: “§ 6. The competent Belgian authority communicates to the competent foreign authorities, within the framework of automatic exchange, the information relating to the taxable periods starting from January 1, 2014, that it has regarding persons residing in that other Member State and concerning specific categories of income and capital under Belgian legislation:  
1° remuneration of workers;  
2° remuneration of company directors;  
3° life insurance products not covered by other Community legal instruments concerning the exchange of information and other similar measures;  
4° pensions;  
5° property and income from real estate.  
The communication of information is carried out at least once a year, and no later than six months after the end of the calendar year during which the information became available.  
The "available information" refers to information contained in the tax records of the Member State that communicates the information and that can be consulted in accordance with the applicable information collection and processing procedures in that Member State.”
Notice 121/2019 - 20/37  
comments on this legislation in the deliberations of the Federal Authority Committee of the Privacy Commission no. 25/2017 of August 24, 2017, regarding the transfer of financial data by the SPF Finances under the "Common Reporting Standard" (§ 44 and following)33, whose conclusions were confirmed in Deliberation no. 39/2017 of December 14, 201734.

6. Data Transfers to Third Countries

50. The Conventions and Protocols submitted for opinion organize the transfer of data to countries located outside the territory of the European Union, such as Uganda, Uzbekistan, or the Cayman Islands. The Authority reminds that Chapter V of the GDPR (Articles 44 to 50) must be taken into account.

51. Transfers of personal data to third countries outside the European Economic Area are in principle prohibited unless the destination country offers an adequate level of protection within the meaning of Article 44 of the GDPR35. The GDPR provides various options to frame such data transfers in a way that ensures an adequate level of protection or at least appropriate safeguards, such as an adequacy decision by the European Commission, legally binding and enforceable instruments, administrative arrangements, or exemptions. The Authority will examine below which of these options might be relevant to allow the data controller to adequately frame the exchanges of personal data envisaged in the Conventions.

52. Regarding the Convention concluded with the United Kingdom and Ireland, it would only be relevant to consider the issues raised in the chapter "transfers of data to a third country" in the event of a future exit from the European Union and the European Economic Area. The Authority will therefore refrain from making any specific remarks regarding data exchanges with the United Kingdom (and Ireland), which - at the time of drafting this opinion - are still both members of the European Union.

6.1 Adequacy Decision of the European Commission (Article 45.1 of the GDPR)

33 Deliberation available at the following internet page: https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/d%C3%A9lib%C3%A9ration_AF_025_2017.pdf.  
34 Deliberation available at the following internet page: https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/d%C3%A9lib%C3%A9ration_AF_039_2017.pdf.  
35 See also recitals 101 and 107 of the GDPR.

Notice 121/2019 - 21/37

53. Article 45.1 of the GDPR states that a transfer of personal data to a third country may take place when the European Commission "has determined by decision that the third country, a territory, or one or more specific sectors in that third country, (...) ensures an adequate level of protection."

54. None of the third countries concerned by the protocols submitted for opinion has been the subject of an adequacy decision, so this basis cannot be invoked in support of the envisaged data exchanges. Therefore, it is necessary to examine other possibilities.

6.2 Appropriate Safeguards (Article 46 of the GDPR)

55. According to Article 46 of the GDPR, "In the absence of a decision [on adequacy by the European Commission], the data controller or the processor may only transfer personal data to a third country or to an international organization if it has provided appropriate safeguards and on condition that the data subjects have enforceable rights and effective legal remedies."

56. These appropriate safeguards may be provided by36:  
- A legally binding and enforceable instrument between the competent authorities or public bodies;  
- The use of standard data protection clauses adopted by the Commission or by a supervisory authority and approved by the Commission37;  
- A code of conduct drawn up in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR;  
- A certification mechanism approved in accordance with Article 42 of the GDPR.

57. Subject to the Authority's authorization, appropriate safeguards may also be provided by38:  
- "contractual clauses between the data controller or the processor and the data controller, the processor, or the recipient of the personal data in the third country or the international organization; or  
- provisions to be included in administrative arrangements between public authorities or public bodies that provide enforceable and effective rights for the data subjects."

36 Art. 46.2 of the GDPR.  
37 Such standard clauses have not yet been adopted and therefore cannot constitute an immediate solution, but this option is conceivable for the future.  
38 Art. 46.3 of the GDPR.
Notice 121/2019 - 22/37

58. In this case, the Conventions (and their protocols) submitted for opinion are binding and, according to the understanding of the Authority, are intended to be made enforceable between the concerned authorities (see for example the future assent decree contemplated by the Wallonia-Brussels federation, the requester of this opinion). The Authority therefore believes that Article 46.2.a of the GDPR could apply provided that these Conventions include the guarantees required by the GDPR.

59. The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) has set itself the task of specifying the mandatory content of such legal instruments concluded between administrations for the purposes of administrative cooperation, within the framework of its 2019-2020 work program.

60. Pending these clarifications from the EDPB, the Authority believes that these instruments must at a minimum include appropriate guarantees regarding the respect of the purposes for which the data is collected on the one hand, as well as specific provisions aimed at providing effective and enforceable rights in terms of data protection, as prescribed in Article 46.1 of the GDPR. Monitoring the evolution of the legislation of the destination country and its impact on the rights and freedoms of the individuals concerned, particularly their rights to data protection, is also recommended, as explained below.

6.2.1
Limitation of Purposes

61. Regarding the purpose of the Conventions (with third countries outside the European Union) submitted for opinion, the Authority refers to the conclusions of section 4 "Purposes" above.

6.2.2
Rights of the Data Subjects Including Rights of Recourse

62. The Conventions submitted for opinion do not, however – with the exception of the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands – contain any provision aimed at providing enforceable rights and effective remedies for the data subjects, including the right to initiate administrative or judicial recourse within the Union or in the third country receiving the data.

63. However, in addition to Article 46.1 of the GDPR where enforceable rights and effective remedies are required as guarantees for adequate transfers, Recital 108 of the GDPR specifies that in the absence of an adequacy decision, the guarantees to be provided "should ensure compliance with the requirements regarding data protection and the rights of data subjects in a manner appropriate to processing within the Union, including the existence of enforceable rights of the data subject and effective remedies, which includes the right to initiate effective administrative or judicial recourse and to bring an action for damages, within the Union or in a third country. These guarantees should particularly address compliance with the general principles regarding the processing of personal data and the principles of data protection by design and by default."

64. The Authority recommends introducing such guarantees into the Conventions, as explained below.

 Rights of Recourse

65. No guarantees are provided in the Conventions to allow data subjects involved in data exchanges to have judicial and/or administrative recourse enabling them to obtain the cessation and/or compensation for any damages due to unlawful processing of data in the third country.

66. To address this lack, it would be necessary to specify in the Conventions and/or their protocols the conditions for the right of access to justice for the data subjects in case of disputes regarding the processing of exchanged tax data and in case of non-compliance with the provisions of the Conventions aimed at protecting personal data (e.g., purpose limitation principle). Pending the EDPB's guidelines regarding data exchanges within the framework of administrative cooperation, it is up to the requester to draw inspiration from the recommendations made in the EDPB guidelines regarding Binding Corporate Rules (a potential source of inspiration, despite their application).
Notice 121/2019 - 24/37  
limited to natural or legal persons engaged in an economic activity, article 4.1.18  
in conjunction with article 4.1.20 of the GDPR.  

 Rights of the Data Subjects  

67. It should also be clarified the conditions for exercising the rights of data subjects under articles 12 to 22 of the GDPR, rights that can only be limited by the legislator in accordance with article 23 of the GDPR, if necessary, considering the public interest and subject to the investigative powers (indirect access) of a data protection authority.  

68. The Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands contains an interesting paragraph in this regard in its article 1, last paragraph: "The rights and protections afforded to individuals under the legislative or regulatory provisions or administrative practices of the Requested Party remain applicable insofar as they do not unduly hinder or delay an effective exchange of information." The Authority believes that such wording should be supplemented to comply with the requirements of article 23.2 of the GDPR.  

69. Indeed, article 23 of the GDPR allows Member States to provide, within certain defined limits and for specific purposes, exceptions to the rights of data subjects, and this for specific objectives listed in article 23.1 of the GDPR; these include public interest objectives of the Union or a Member State, notably a significant economic or financial interest of the Union or a Member State, including in the monetary, budgetary, and fiscal areas, public health, and social security, particularly a mission of control, inspection, or regulation related, even occasionally, to the exercise of public authority.  

70. Any legislative measure providing for limitations on the rights of the data subject must at least contain specific provisions relating to the elements listed in article 23.2 of the GDPR, such as:  
- the purposes of the processing or categories of processing,  
- the categories of personal data,  

43 WP 256, Working document establishing a table presenting the elements and principles of binding corporate rules, adopted on November 28, 2017, Revised version adopted on February 6, 2018, and available at the following page: https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=614109 ("The BCR must expressly confer on data subjects the right to judicial remedy and the right to obtain compensation and, where appropriate, to receive indemnification in the event of a breach of any of the enforceable elements of the BCR listed above (see articles 77 to 82 of the GDPR).".  

Notice 121/2019 - 25/37  
- the extent of the limitations introduced,  
- the safeguards intended to prevent abuse or unlawful access or transfer,  
- the determination of the data controller(s) (or categories of data controllers),  
- the retention periods,  
- the risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, and  
- the right of data subjects to be informed of the limitation.  

71. In order to determine the scope of the margin of appreciation that the legislator has in this context, it is important to recall the case law of the Court of Justice regarding article 13 of Directive 95/46/EC, which provided for a similar exception basis. In the Smaranda Bara ruling, the Court confirmed that these exceptions could only be established by "legislative measures"44. Subsequently, the Court clarified that Member States could adopt these exceptions only insofar as they are "necessary"45. Given the unchanged intention of the European legislator to ensure a high level of protection46, this means that exceptions to the rights of data subjects must remain within the limits of what is strictly necessary47. The necessity and proportionality of the measures concerned must therefore be interpreted restrictively.  

72. In this context, it is necessary to specifically justify any restrictions imposed on each type of right offered by the GDPR (e.g., limitation of the right to information, the right of access, the right to rectification, etc.). The Authority refers in this regard to the recommendations made in its opinion No. 57/2018 of July 4, 2018, regarding the Government's amendments to the draft law establishing the Information Security Committee and amending various laws concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC.  

44 Court of Justice, October 1, 2015 (C-201/14), Smaranda Bara et al., § 39; Court of Justice, September 27, 2017 (C-73/16), Puškár, § 96.  
45 Court of Justice, November 7, 2013 (C-473/12), IPI v. Englebert, § 32.  
46 Recital 10 of the GDPR, recital 10 of Directive 95/46/EC.  
47 Court of Justice, November 7, 2013 (C-473/12), IPI v. Englebert, § 39.
Notice 121/2019 - 26/37  
 Monitoring the evolution of legislation in third countries  

73. Furthermore, in its opinion No. 12/2017 of March 15, 2017, regarding a draft royal decree related to national cooperation between the College of Supervisors of Company Auditors […] as well as related to international cooperation with third countries, the Privacy Protection Commission recommended including a termination clause in any data exchange agreement for administrative cooperation, in the event of changes in regulations or circumstances in the destination country such as the manifest non-compliance by the third country with the rights of the data subjects under the GDPR48.  

74. In the context of the Conventions, the Authority believes that in the absence of an adequacy decision, the data controller has the task of assessing the appropriate safeguards to be provided, taking into account all circumstances of the processing, including the legislation of the destination country of the data and its impact on the protection of personal data49, in light of its accountability obligation under Article 5.2 and Recital 74 of the GDPR50. In the case of a request for authorization under Article 46.3.a (non-binding administrative arrangements51), it would be up to the DPA to validate or not the applicant's assessment regarding the legislation of the destination country of the data and its impact on the protection of personal data. The transfer authorization competence provided by the GDPR in Article 46.3 for non-binding administrative arrangements is, in this case, not relevant, since the transfer agreements submitted for opinion are intended to be binding between the parties. For all practical purposes, the Authority reminds that the Privacy Commission has already been particularly critical of draft agreements.  

48 Privacy Protection Commission, Opinion No. 12/2017 of March 15, 2017, regarding a draft royal decree related to national cooperation between the College of Supervisors of Company Auditors, the Higher Council of Economic Professions, and the minister responsible for the Economy, as well as related to international cooperation with third countries (CO-A-2017-006), § 60: "The Commission also requests to include a termination clause in each cooperation agreement with third countries in the event of changes in regulations or circumstances such as the loss of the adequate level of data protection by a country following a decision of the European Union, or the manifest non-compliance with the rights of data subjects under the GDPR by third parties."  
49 See for example Article 5.1.a of the standard clauses for the transfer by a data controller to a processor (first model 2001/497/EC), in which the data importer commits to inform the exporting party if changes in its legislation are likely to negatively impact the guarantees provided in the standard clauses (https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/en/ALL/?uri=CELEX:32001D0497); also see, for complete information, the aspects of the legislation of the destination country that the European Commission must take into account under Article 45.2 GDPR to assess whether the level of protection of a third country is adequate (see for example “Opinion 28/2018 regarding the EU Commission Draft Implementing Decision on the adequate protection of personal data in Japan”, https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/opinion-art-70/opinion-282018-regarding-european-commission-draft_en).  
50 Recital 74 GDPR: "The accountability of the data controller should be established for any processing of personal data that it carries out itself or that is carried out on its behalf. It is particularly important that the data controller is required to implement appropriate and effective measures and is able to demonstrate compliance of the processing activities with this regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures should take into account the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing as well as the risk it poses to the rights and freedoms of natural persons."  
51 Recital 108 of the GDPR.
Notice 121/2019 - 27/37  
transfers to third countries within the framework of automatic exchanges of financial data to third countries outside the European Union. The Authority refers in this regard to the deliberations of the Federal Authority Committee of the Privacy Commission no. 25/2017 of August 24, 2017, concerning the transfer of financial data by the SPF Finances under the "Common Reporting Standard"52, the conclusions of which were confirmed in Deliberation no. 39/2017 of December 14, 201753.

75. Furthermore, the Authority recommends clarifying that the Conventions submitted for opinion cannot in any case be interpreted as imposing on a contracting State the obligation to provide personal data in derogation of its personal data protection legislation, particularly the GDPR and national personal data protection laws such as the LTD, in order to ensure, in particular, compliance with the general principles of data protection as referred to in Article 46.1 in conjunction with Recital 108 of the GDPR, cited above54.

6.2.3  
Conclusion on the invocation of a legal basis under Article 46

76. In the absence of clarification on the purposes of the processing and the rights of the data subjects as recommended above, and subject to any additional requirements to be clarified by the EDPB in its future guidelines regarding administrative data exchange agreements, the Authority is of the opinion that the data transfers envisaged under the Conventions submitted for opinion cannot, in their current state, be based on Article 46 of the GDPR, and constitute, for example, administrative arrangements or legally binding instruments adequate within the meaning of this article, unless amended to meet the recommendations made above. Alternatively, the applicant may consider basing these transfers on Article 49 of the GDPR regulating exceptions, provided that these transfers are not massive or systematic, as explained below.

52  
Deliberation available at the following internet page:  
https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/d%C3%A9lib%C3%A9ration_AF_025_2017.pdf.  
53  
Deliberation available at the following internet page:  
https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/d%C3%A9lib%C3%A9ration_AF_039_2017.pdf.  
54 See in particular the remarks concerning the rights of data subjects in §§ 57 and following of this notice.

Notice 121/2019 - 28/37  
6.3 Exceptions (Article 49 of the GDPR)

77. In the absence of an adequacy decision by the European Commission under Article 45 or appropriate safeguards under Article 46, Article 49.1 of the GDPR provides for the possibility of exceptions for specific situations, notably:  
- when the data subject has given explicit consent to the proposed transfer, after being informed of the risks that this transfer may pose to them due to the absence of an adequacy decision and appropriate safeguards (a);  
- the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the data controller or for the implementation of pre-contractual measures taken at the request of the data subject (b);  
- the transfer is necessary for important reasons of public interest (d).

78. The Authority wishes to remind, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the EDPB, that Article 49 of the GDPR and its exceptions must be interpreted restrictively so that the exception does not become the rule. Following the Article 29 Working Party, the EDPB advocates in this regard "a step-by-step approach based on best practices, consisting of first examining whether the third country ensures an adequate level of protection and ensuring that the exported data will be safeguarded. If the level of protection is not adequate in light of all circumstances, the data exporter should consider providing adequate safeguards. Data exporters should therefore first strive to find possibilities to proceed with the transfer using one of the mechanisms provided for in Articles 45 and 46 of the GDPR, and only resort to the exceptions provided for in Article 49, paragraph 1, in the absence of such mechanisms"55.

79. In this case, the proposed transfers could be based on an exception "for important reasons of public interest" (Article 49.1.d of the GDPR), as the transfer of data between tax administrations is specifically included among the circumstances justifying such exceptions56.

55 European Data Protection Board, Guidelines 2/2018 on the exceptions provided for in Article 49 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, adopted on May 25, 2018, p. 4, https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_2_2018_derogations_fr.pdf.  
56 See Recital 112 of the GDPR: "These exceptions should apply in particular to data transfers that are required and necessary for important reasons of public interest, for example in the case of international data exchanges between competition authorities, tax administrations or customs authorities, between financial supervisory authorities, between services responsible for social security or public health issues [...]".
Notice 121/2019 - 29/37  
6.3.1  
Condition of reciprocity of public interest  

80. In the context of the Conventions submitted for opinion and aimed at international cooperation in the establishment and collection of taxes, assent decrees are provided at the level of the French Community and the Walloon Region. The public interest of the data transfers envisaged is therefore recognized by Union law (or the law of the Member State to which the data controller is subject) as required by Article 49.1.d of the GDPR. The Authority believes that the reciprocity of data exchanges between tax authorities confirms this public interest (see also the remarks included on this subject under title 3 "identification of the legal basis – public interest mission and reciprocity of the envisaged exchanges"). The EDPB has further confirmed the importance of this reciprocity condition in the context of transfers based on the "public interest" derogation within the framework of international cooperation.  

6.3.2  
Condition related to the nature (frequency and importance) of the transfers  

81. As indicated by the EDPB in its Guidelines 2/2018 regarding the derogations provided for in Article 49 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the legal basis "derogation" of Article 49 of the GDPR is not intended to be invoked for mass or systematic transfers. In such cases, it is recommended that the data controller rely on appropriate safeguards in accordance with Article 46 of the GDPR.  

57 See EDPB, Guidelines 2/2018 regarding the derogations provided for in Article 49 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, p. 12:  
"Under Article 49, paragraph 4, only public interests recognized by Union law or the law of the Member State to which the data controller is subject can lead to the application of this derogation. However, for this derogation to be applicable, it is not sufficient that the data transfer is required (for example, by an authority of a third country) for an investigation in the public interest of a third country which, in the abstract sense, also exists in Union law or the law of the Member State. When, for example, an authority of a third country requests a data transfer for an investigation in the context of combating terrorism, the mere existence of a legislative act of the Union or of the Member State also aimed at combating terrorism does not in itself constitute a sufficient reason to apply Article 49, paragraph 1, point d), to this transfer. As the "Article 29" Working Party, the predecessor of the EDPB, pointed out in previous statements, the derogation applies rather only when it can also be inferred from Union law or the law of the Member State to which the data controller is subject that these data transfers are authorized for significant public interest reasons, including in the spirit of reciprocity for international cooperation. The existence of an international agreement or convention that recognizes a certain objective and provides for international cooperation to promote that objective can be an indicator when assessing the existence of a public interest under Article 49, paragraph 1, point d), as long as the Union or the Member States are parties to that agreement or convention."  

58 See EDPB, Guidelines 2/2018 regarding the derogations provided for in Article 49 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, p. 13:  
"Recitals 111 and 112 indicate that this derogation is not limited to data transfers that are 'occasional'. However, this does not mean that data transfers under the important public interest derogation provided for in Article 49, paragraph 1, point d), can take place on a large scale and systematically. Rather, the general principle should be respected that the derogations defined in Article 49 should not become 'the rule' in practice, but should be limited to particular situations, and each data exporter must ensure that the transfer meets the strict necessity test. When transfers are made in the normal course of activities or practices, the EDPB strongly encourages all data exporters (particularly public bodies) to frame these by implementing appropriate safeguards in accordance with Article 46 rather than relying on the derogation provided for in Article 49, paragraph 1, point d)."
Notice 121/2019 - 30/37

6.3.3  
Burden of Proof for the Data Controller

82. The exemption allowing the transfer of personal data for significant public interest reasons does not constitute a blank check. The choice of such a legal basis for transfer does not relieve the data controller of the obligation to provide effective guarantees such as those required under an administrative arrangement or a legally binding instrument (see recommendations included in points 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 of this notice).

83. In the absence of such guarantees through one of the instruments provided by Article 46 of the GDPR (such as legally binding instruments), it will be the responsibility of the data controller to establish appropriate guarantees on a case-by-case basis and to document them on a case-by-case basis in order to fulfill its accountability obligations under Article 5.2 of the GDPR.

6.4 Recommendations Regarding Guarantees to be Provided in the Context of the Transfer of Personal Data to Third Countries

84. If the data controller invokes Article 49.1.d of the GDPR (exemption for significant public interest reasons) to justify the transfer of data, which is possible provided that the transfer is not massive and/or systematic, it is the responsibility of the data controller to establish and document appropriate guarantees regarding the rights of the data subjects, including the rights of recourse, based on the model of the guarantees recommended under Article 46 (explained below).

85. If the proposed transfer is massive and/or systematic, the data controller must establish appropriate guarantees under Article 46, and, subject to further clarifications from the EDPB in this regard,
o provide in the Agreements themselves appropriate guarantees regarding the rights of the data subjects, including the rights of recourse;
o justify any exceptions to the rights of the data subjects in such a way that they comply with the provisions of Article 23 of the GDPR;
o reserve the right to terminate the data exchange in the event of changes in the regulations in the recipient country or following the occurrence of circumstances in the destination country such as the manifest non-compliance by the third country with the rights of the data subjects under the GDPR;

Notice 121/2019 - 31/37
o specify that the Agreement cannot in any case be interpreted as imposing on a contracting State the obligation to provide personal data in derogation of its personal data protection legislation, in particular the GDPR and national personal data protection laws such as the LTD.

86. It is up to the applicant to provide such protective measures in the Agreements even if the proposed transfers would not be massive or systematic, in order to facilitate, where appropriate, the implementation of the accountability principle that falls on the data controller under Article 5.2 of the GDPR, given that it is advisable to base transfers on Article 46 rather than on Article 49, which should be considered a residual legal basis, in the absence of better options.

7. Retention Period

87. In accordance with the principle of Article 5.1(e) of the GDPR and Article 28.5 of the LTD, personal data may not be retained in a form that allows the identification of data subjects for longer than is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. The Authority notes that the draft decrees submitted for opinion do not specify the retention period for the exchanged personal data. In light of Article 6.3 of the GDPR, maximum retention periods must be specified, possibly differentiated according to the intended processing purposes. At the very least, criteria must be defined that allow for the determination of these retention periods.

8. Transparency

88. Fair data processing is processing that is carried out transparently. This means that data subjects must be sufficiently informed (cf. Articles 12-14 GDPR), particularly about the identity of the data controller, the purposes of the data processing, and any additional information such as the recipients or categories of recipients of the data and the existence of a right to access their data and to rectify this data, where applicable. Finally, the Authority reminds that, in accordance with Articles 13.1, f, and 15.2 of the GDPR, data subjects must be duly informed of the transfer of their personal data to a third country, where applicable, and of the existence or absence of appropriate guarantees in this regard. 

59 Ibid.
Notice 121/2019 - 32/37

89. Article 13.5.c of the GDPR stipulates that the data controller is exempt from this information obligation when the recording or communication of personal data is carried out for the purpose of applying a provision provided by or under a law, decree, or order.

90. The Authority considers that this exception can only apply in the present case for the processing and communication of data explicitly mentioned in the Conventions, including the categories of data concerned, where applicable (see in this regard the recommendation to specify the categories of data concerned under title 5 "Proportionality").

91. The Authority further emphasizes that it is the responsibility of the data controller to ensure that the data subjects are clearly informed of the data controller(s) with whom the rights of the data subjects (for example, the right of access, rectification, and deletion) can be exercised.

9. Article 20 LTD

92. The draft consent decrees are submitted for opinion by the French Community and the Walloon Region, without the data controller or co-data controllers having been designated (see the recommendations on this subject under title 2 "Data Controller(s)"). The agreements are also co-signed by the Kingdom of Belgium, the Flemish Community, the Flemish Region, and the Brussels-Capital Region.

93. For the sake of completeness, the Authority draws attention to the fact that specific obligations regarding data exchange may apply under the laws specific to these public entities, where applicable. These include the following provisions:

60 See Deliberation of the Federal Privacy Commission Committee No. 24/2016 of June 30, 2016, §§ 44 to 47: "The Committee recalls that fair data processing is processing that is done transparently. The information obligation under Article 9, § 2 of the LVP is one of the cornerstones of transparent processing. In this case, however, the data processing envisaged will be carried out for the purpose of applying provisions prescribed by or under a law, decree, or order. Under Article 9, § 2, second paragraph, b) of the LVP, an exemption from the information obligation applies in such a situation. However, this exemption does not prevent the Committee from ensuring the existence of adequate safeguards for the protection of the fundamental rights of the data subjects (cf. Articles 4, § 1, 1° and 9 to 15bis of the LVP). The applicant indicates that they inform the data subjects via their website. However, the Committee notes that the relevant webpage contains only a list of the permissions that the Committee has recently granted to the applicant. Although the Committee supports the publication of these permissions, it believes that the data subjects should receive more concrete and accessible information, particularly given that, in the present case, the citizen is clearly not informed in any other way. The Committee therefore requests the applicant to inform the citizen via an accessible and understandable text on their website regarding the circumstances under which their AGDP data may be transmitted to tax administrations of other member states of the European Union."
Notice 121/2019 - 33/37

- Article 20 of the LTD, under which a memorandum of understanding must be concluded in advance to allow access to personal data from a federal public authority. In case the data controllers, both senders and recipients, are unable to reach an agreement, the flow must, in principle, be subject to prior deliberation by the federal authority's information security committee (except for one-off data communications or unless a regulatory standard specifies the modalities of the flow such as its purposes, categories of data, and data recipients)61;

- Article 3 of the decree of July 18, 2008, concerning the electronic exchange of administrative data, under which entities of the Flemish administration collect the data they need to develop the electronic exchange of administrative data from authentic data sources. Under Article 8 of this decree, any electronic communication of personal data by one authority to another authority or to an external authority requires a protocol concluded between the concerned authorities. However, this protocol is not required when the information security committee is competent to issue a deliberation regarding this communication62;

- The cooperation agreement of August 26, 2013, between federal, regional, and community administrations aimed at harmonizing and aligning initiatives to achieve integrated e-government, particularly imposes "agreements and full compliance with the rules regarding privacy protection and information security using trust circles" (Article 3.3);

- The ordinance of the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region establishing and organizing a regional service integrator (Article 12).

10. Security of Processing

94. In general, the Authority reminds that it is the responsibility of the data controller to implement appropriate security measures to frame the data processing envisaged. Indeed, Article 32 of the GDPR obliges the data controller to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. These measures must ensure an appropriate level of security, taking into account, on the one hand, the state of the knowledge in the field and the costs involved in implementing these measures and, on the other hand, the nature of the data to be protected and the potential risks.

95. Article 32 of the GDPR refers in this regard to several examples of measures to ensure, where necessary, an appropriate level of security relative to the risk:

• Pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;  
• Means to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and constant resilience of processing systems;  
• Means to restore the availability of personal data and access to it within appropriate timeframes in the event of a physical or technical incident;  
• A procedure to regularly test, analyze, and evaluate the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures to ensure processing security.

96. For the concrete implementation of these measures, the Authority refers to the recommendation63 aimed at preventing data leaks and the reference measures64 that should be respected in the context of any personal data processing. The Authority also emphasizes the importance of good user and access management65.

FOR THESE REASONS,

The Authority requires that the applicant take into account in the draft decree of assent to the conventions submitted for opinion the following recommendations:

63 Recommendation of the Privacy Commission No. 01/2013 regarding security measures to be respected to prevent data leaks (https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/recommandation_01_2013.pdf).  
64 Reference measures of the Privacy Commission regarding security applicable to any personal data processing, Version 1.0, (https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/mesures_de_reference_en_matiere_de_securite_applicables_a_tout_traitement_de_donnees_a_caractere_personnel_0.pdf).  
65 See also the recommendation of the Privacy Commission No. 01/2008 (https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/recommandation_01_2008_0.pdf). Several bodies may propose suitable technological solutions for this purpose (such as the Crossroads Bank for Social Security).
Notice 121/2019 - 35/37  
(a) For all Conventions:  

- Designate the data controller(s) (§ 19-22)  
- Specify in the Conventions how the notion of "information likely to be relevant" will be used and applied, and, failing that, ensure that the data controller(s) sufficiently justify how a piece of information is likely to be relevant prior to the communication or request for this information to/from a third country, it being understood that such justification on a case-by-case basis is admissible as long as it does not involve an automatic exchange of tax data (§ 40-46);  
- Specify in the Conventions the retention period for the exchanged data (§ 86);  
- Ensure that the data subjects are clearly informed of the data controller(s) to whom the rights of the data subjects (notably, the right of access, rectification, and deletion) can be exercised (§ 87)  
- Ensure compliance with Article 20 LTD regarding access to personal data from a federal public authority and/or regional or community legislation on data exchanges, where applicable (§ 85-86);  
- Ensure that the data controller(s) implement appropriate security measures (§ 87-89);  

(b) For all Conventions except the Convention concluded with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland:  

- Ensure that the data controller(s) assess the appropriate safeguards to be provided for data transfers to third countries outside the European Union, taking into account all circumstances of the processing, including the legislation of the destination country of the data and its impact on the protection of personal data, considering their accountability obligation under Article 5.2 and Recital 74 of the GDPR (§ 73);  
- Ensure that the data subjects are clearly informed of the transfer of their personal data to a third country and of the existence or absence of appropriate safeguards in this regard (§ 87);  

(c) Regarding the Conventions concluded with Uganda and Uzbekistan:  

Notice 121/2019 - 36/37  
- Explicitly mention the purposes and subsequent processing envisaged, particularly the possibility of further use of the information for criminal tax proceedings, where applicable (provided that such processing is legally possible) (§ 35-36);  
- If the data controller invokes Article 49.1.d of the GDPR (derogation for important public interest reasons) to justify the data transfer, which is possible provided that the transfer is not massive and/or systematic: establish and document appropriate safeguards on a case-by-case basis regarding the rights of the data subjects, including the rights to remedy (§ 76 and following);  
- If the envisaged transfer is massive and/or systematic: the data controller must establish appropriate safeguards under Article 46, under Article 46.2.a where applicable, and  
  o provide in the conventions themselves appropriate safeguards regarding the rights of the data subjects, including the rights to remedy;  
  o justify any exceptions to the rights of the data subjects in such a way that they comply with the provisions of Article 23 of the GDPR;  
  o reserve the right to terminate the data exchange in the event of a change in the regulations in the recipient country or following the occurrence of circumstances in the destination country such as the manifest non-compliance by the third country with the rights of the data subjects under the GDPR;  
  o specify that the convention cannot in any case be interpreted as imposing on a contracting State the obligation to provide personal data in derogation of its personal data protection legislation, particularly the GDPR and national personal data protection laws such as the LTD (§ 54 and following);  

(d) Regarding the Convention concluded with the Cayman Islands:  

- If the data controller invokes Article 49.1.d of the GDPR (derogation for important public interest reasons) to justify the data transfer, which is possible provided that the transfer is not massive and/or systematic: establish and document appropriate safeguards on a case-by-case basis regarding the rights of the data subjects, including the rights to remedy (§ 76 and following);
Notice 121/2019 - 37/37

- 
If the intended transfer is massive and/or systematic: the data controller must implement appropriate safeguards pursuant to Article 46, pursuant to Article 46.2.a if applicable, and  
o provide in the Convention itself appropriate safeguards regarding the rights of the data subjects, including the rights to remedy; 
o justify any exceptions to the rights of the data subjects in such a way that they comply with the provisions of Article 23 of the GDPR; 
o reserve the right to terminate the data exchange in the event of changes in the regulations in the recipient country or following the occurrence of circumstances in the destination country such as the manifest non-compliance by the third country with the rights of the data subjects under the GDPR; 
o specify that the convention cannot in any case be interpreted as imposing on a contracting State the obligation to provide personal data in derogation of its personal data protection legislation, in particular the GDPR and national personal data protection laws such as the LTD (§ 54 and following); 

(e) Regarding the Convention concluded with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland: 

- 
Verify that reciprocity of data exchanges is indeed provided for in the convention and the applicable legislation in order to base the intended data processing on the necessary execution of a public interest mission within the meaning of Article 6.1.e of the GDPR, and, if not, include in the convention provisions guaranteeing this reciprocity (§ 23-28); 

- 
Explicitly mention the intended purposes and subsequent processing, in particular the possibility of further use of the information for tax procedures of a criminal nature, if applicable (provided that such processing is legally possible) (§ 35-36). 

(signed) An Machtens  
(signed) Alexandra Jaspar  
Acting Administrator  
Director of the Knowledge Center