
DetailHomeNewsDetail


06/05/2023
2nd Data Protection Day Hesse and Rhineland-Palatinate of the BvD in cooperation with the supervisory authorities Digitization and data protection - hand in hand ahead On Wednesday, July 5, 2023, from 9 a.m. to 5.15 p.m., the Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (HBDI), Prof. Dr. Alexander Roßnagel, and the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate), Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, together with the Professional Association of Data Protection Officers Germany (BvD) e.V. Data Protection Day Hesse & Rhineland-Palatinate" for official, municipal and company data protection officers. The conference in the Metropolitan Hotel in Frankfurt am Main gives data protection officers from public bodies in particular the opportunity to exchange ideas with experts from the supervisory authorities on topics that deal with them in their everyday professional practice and to network with each other. A wide range of topics is used for this purpose, ranging from information on the Whistleblower Protection Act, secure digital communication in public administration, public relations and social media to data breaches, police evaluation and analysis of data and video surveillance in the municipalities. In addition, insights into the practice of data protection officers are shared, e.g. on the subject of information rights or on the advisory dialogue with the supervisory authority. A total of 17 topics will be examined in parallel workshops, specialist lectures and panel discussions. The special thing about Data Protection Day is that the participants not only exchange information with each other, but can also approach the experts from the supervisory authorities directly with their questions. This applies both to the conference breaks and to the interactive final panel "The supervisory authorities answer your questions". "In view of the many technical and legal challenges, qualified data protection officers are an important factor for successful digitization. Data protection officers have important interface functions - to the data subjects, those responsible and, last but not least, to the data protection supervisory authorities. After last year's exciting and successful event, my authority and I are looking forward to engaging in lively exchanges with key players in data protection in business and administration." Dieter Kugelmann, LfDI Rheinland-Pfalz, the motivation for the new cooperation event. HBDI Prof. Dr. Alexander Roßnagel adds: “The exchange between the official data protection officers and with the responsible data protection supervisory authority is an important element of professional training, mutual understanding for each other and the exchange of experience for everyone involved. It is very important to me to accompany and support this professional exchange." "We are pleased that with this data protection day for the second time in the middle and in the west of the republic we are organizing a big event for our members and those who are there may want to become," says Deputy Chairman of the BvD Jürgen Hartz. "We know from our congresses, with the associated "authority day" in Berlin and in southern Germany, how much data protection officers value direct dialogue with the supervisory authorities. That is why we have high hopes for this cooperation. With this offer we are specifically addressing the official and internal data protection officers. Therefore, the conference topics are specifically tailored to this particular target group.” The entire program for the “2. Data Protection Day Hesse & Rhineland-Palatinate” and further information on participation can be found at: www.bvdnet.de/datenschutztagBvD-Contact: Managing Director: Karsten Füllhaase, Tel: 030/20 62 14 41, email: pressestelle(at)bvdnet. de Chairman of the Board: Thomas Spaeing, 030/26 36 77 60, e-mail: bvd-gs(at)bvdnet.de BvD main city office: Budapester Straße 31, 10787 BerlinThe BvD: representing the interests of data protection officers With more than 30 years of experience, the BvD is the oldest representation of interests for company and official data protection officers and consultants. BvD members are represented in all sectors, especially IT and ICT, industry/production, trade/sales, consulting and health and social services - and as constructive, solution-oriented data protection experts, they are an important partner for responsible company management. All board members, all heads of working groups, committees and regional groups of the BvD contribute their practical experience to the work of the association free of charge. With the founding of the European umbrella organization EFDPO, the BvD set the course for increased networking and communication at EU level.
return




