


Press release 8/2023


  BfDI presents 31st activity report
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, handed over his activity report for the year 2022 to the President of the German Bundestag on Wednesday.



Source: DBT/photothek

In the reporting year, the BfDI chaired the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities and sees room for improvement in many laws and projects: "There is still too much attention paid to how data protection can be adapted to projects, instead of looking for legally compliant solutions from the start . We have therefore advocated digital solutions that citizens can trust. We also need strong international cooperation for uniform standards. I have campaigned for this, for example, in the G7 group and the so-called Berlin Group.”
In addition to health issues such as the e-prescription, the electronic patient file or the handling of research data, the BfDI has dealt with the European digital legal acts, the Facebook fan page of the federal government and the so-called "chat control". Last year, the BfDI received 10,658 reports of data protection violations and 491 submissions related to the right to information. Citizens contacted the Federal Data Protection Commissioner with 6,619 complaints and inquiries.
When advising the supervised bodies, the BfDI was increasingly able to convince them of data protection-friendly alternatives, for example in the design of cookie banners or the use of data protection-friendly social media from the Fediverse such as Mastodon.
You can download the 31st activity report of the BfDI as a PDF file or order a print version.

 The 31st activity report to order and download
31st Activity Report on Data Protection and Freedom of Information 2022




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          Pursue

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











