1/13

 File No.: EXP202202652

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 4, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against SECURITAS DIRECT
SPAIN, S.A. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
transcribe:

<<

File No.: EXP202202652

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated January 14, 2022
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed against SECURITAS DIRECT ESPAÑA, S.A. with NIF
A26106013 (SECURITAS DIRECT). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:
following:

The complaining party, a SECURITAS DIRECT customer, states that they have received a
communication by a third party, apparently another client of the entity, in which
ensures that it has received from SECURITAS DIRECT, via email,
personal information concerning the complaining party. among the information
disclosed to this third party, would be the one related to the personal identification data of the
complaining party, contractual details, electronic transaction details, as well as
such as details of the installation of security devices in your home.

After bringing it to the attention of the company, hoping for some type of compensation
they have only offered him an apology without any apparent action being taken.

Along with the claim, the following is provided:

- a mobile screen impression, in which you can see:

a) a telephone number, partially anonymized.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

b) the following text: Hi, I'm A.A.A., we've just talked, and delivery time is 3:30 p.m.
Hello, yes, good afternoon, and delivery time is 3:31 p.m.

c) sending the LOGALTY certificate to the email "***EMAIL.1" with the name
“SECURITAS DIRECT”, and the time the message was sent 15:31

- a LOGALTY certificate, dated 12/21/2021, in which you appear as the sender of
the notification SECURITAS DIRECT, and as recipients A.A.A., and with STATUS "no
delivered, time expired.”

- a mobile screen impression, in which you can see:

a) the partially anonymized telephone number
b) the date Tue, December 21. with the following text: “You're welcome. I let you know in any case"
sent at 17:31.

c) a new shipment from SECURITAS DIRECT, sent at 18:01, in which the
It can read “we know that your alarm has gone off in the last few days. Luckily, it hasn't
been a real jump. But, do you know how we act in the face of these alarm jumps? As
part of the message, it is seen written by the person who forwarded the message “right now”
and time 18:10.

- content of the email, sent from SECURITAS DIRECT. CUSTOMERS,
with addressee "AAA.", with delivery time 18:01, and containing the
of the screen print.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to SECURITAS DIRECT,
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month,
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the
data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on March 9, 2022 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On April 8, 2022, this Agency received a written response
indicating:

The claimant contracted with SECURITAS DIRECT on November 21,
2021, appearing as contact email in the contract signed with the
corresponding commercial address: “***EMAIL.1.”

As this is the email provided on the title page of the contract with a
of the company, is the one that was included in the systems, and to which the
documentation associated with the contract. This documentation is sent through

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

a trusted third party, which allows certifying the sending and receiving of the
documentation, and which in this case is LOGALTY.

This documentation is:

-   Contract of service. This contract is sent secured with
password.

-recruitment certificate. This document has been sent without a password. They contribute
as document 2, copy of this document.

SECURITAS declares that as of April 25, 2022 this document will be
will proceed to send with password as well.

The personal data collected in this contract certificate are: name
and surnames, ID and mobile phone. They consider that the email address, at
be that of the receiver, it would have no impact.

After contracting and registering the service, on December 21, 2021, the part
claimant contacted SECURITAS, and it is at this time that they have
proof of the error in the email of the complaining party, which should be:
“***EMAIL.2”

SECURITAS declares that the data is corrected in the systems in a manner
definitive on January 12, 2022.

In addition, SECURITAS reveals that 21 emails were sent
emails to the wrong mail. He states that these would be notices or interactions of the
customer with the system, such as power outages, performing
photoreplays (they state that the photos are not included in the email) and
activations and deactivations of the alarm system itself.

They add that only 7 emails of the 21 sent are known to have been opened, in which
that, as they affirm, only the name and surname of the client would be included, and the address
zip where the system is installed.

The entity wants to indicate that this assumption would not be an incident of
security, but from an involuntary, punctual and isolated human error, which has as its
origin the introduction, at the time of contracting the alarm system, of a
email incorrectly, and that was corrected when it was
knowledge.

They also state that they consider it to have been a specific and isolated incident, and therefore
They have not communicated this to the regulator.

THIRD: On April 14, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

FOURTH: According to the report collected from the AXESOR tool, the entity
SECURITAS DIRECT ESPAÑA, S.A. is a large company incorporated on March 17
of 1989, and with a turnover of €910,599,753 euros in the year 2021.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the provisions of articles 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (GDPR), and as established in articles 47, 48.1,
64.2 and 68.1 and 68.2 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of
Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD) is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 and 4.2 of the GDPR,
consists of the processing of personal data, since
SECURITAS DIRECT collects and stores, among others, the following
personal data of natural persons: name and surname, email, ID,
among other treatments.

SECURITAS DIRECT carries out this activity in its capacity as the person responsible for the
treatment, since it is who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of
of article 4.7 of the GDPR.

Article 4 paragraph 12 of the GDPR defines, in a broad way, "violations of
security of personal data" (hereinafter security breach) as "all
those security violations that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data.”

In the present case, there is a personal data security breach in the
circumstances indicated above, categorized as a breach of confidentiality, by
have been sent by email to another SECURITAS DIRECT customer,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

documentation associated with the contracting carried out by the complaining party, in which
contain your personal data.

Within the principles of treatment provided for in article 5 of the GDPR, the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data is guaranteed in section 1.f)
of article 5 of the GDPR. For its part, the security of personal data comes
regulated in articles 32, 33 and 34 of the GDPR, which regulate the security of the
treatment, the notification of a breach of the security of personal data to
the control authority, as well as the communication to the interested party, respectively.

II

Integrity and confidentiality

Article 5.1.f) "Principles relating to processing" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. Personal data will be:
(…)

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate data security
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or organizational procedures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is clear that the personal data of the complaining party, obtained
in the SECURITAS DIRECT database, were improperly exposed to a
third, by sending a person documentation associated with the contract
made by the complaining party.

Therefore, according to the evidence available at this time
agreement to initiate disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from
the instruction, it is considered that the known facts could constitute a
infringement, attributable to SECURITAS DIRECT, for violation of article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

Classification and qualification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

IV.

If confirmed, the aforementioned violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that:

"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 "Infractions considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

Penalty proposal for infringement of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

V

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with
the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR:

As aggravating factors:

- The nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered (section a): for having transferred the personal data of the party
claimant (name and surname, telephone number, DNI among others), to a third party not
authorized to do so, having been sent 21 emails with the data
corresponding to the contracting carried out with SECURITAS DIRECT.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established in section 2 of article 76 "Sanctions and measures
corrective measures" of the LOPDGDD:

As aggravating factors:

- The linking of the activity of the offender with the performance of treatment of
personal data (section b): the entity SECURITAS DIRECT is an entity
accustomed to the processing of personal data.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR and 76.2 of
the LOPDGDD, with respect to the offense committed by violating what is established in the
Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, allows an initial penalty of 30,000 euros (thirty
a thousand euros).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

SAW

Treatment safety

Article 32 "Security of treatment" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which may include, among others:

a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration will be given to
take into account the risks presented by data processing, in particular as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to such data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct pursuant to article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and
have access to personal data can only process such data by following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of
the Union or of the Member States.

In the present case, at the time of the breach, it cannot be said that
SECURITAS DIRECT has the appropriate measures to avoid the incident, in
the extent to which you submitted the documentation unencrypted or any other method that
prevent unauthorized access, with personal data of a client, related to the
contracting their services to another client. SECURITAS DIRECT has stated
have implemented the sending of this documentation through a password, but it
has done after the event occurred.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

Therefore, from all of the foregoing, it has been verified that SECURITAS DIRECT does not
had the appropriate measures in place to prevent a situation such as this from occurring.
the case at hand.

Therefore, in accordance with the evidence available in this
agreement to initiate the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what is
of the instruction, it is considered that the known facts could constitute
an infraction, attributable to SECURITAS DIRECT, for violation of article 32 of the
GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

VII

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the GDPR could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8, 11, 25 to
39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that
"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 "Infractions considered serious"
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. (…)

Penalty proposal for infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

VIII

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

draft decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what
resulting from the instruction, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed according to
in accordance with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR:

As aggravating factors:

- The nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered (paragraph a): In the present case, SECURITAS DIRECT did not have
implemented the necessary measures according to the risk, to carry out the shipment of
documentation with personal data via email, which affected the
less than 1,650,000 interested parties, from the beginning of the activity until April 25
of 2022.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established in section 2 of article 76 "Sanctions and measures
corrective measures" of the LOPDGDD:

As aggravating factors:

- Linking the activity of the infringer with the performance of data processing
personal information (section b): the SECURITAS DIRECT entity is an entity accustomed to
processing of personal data.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR and 76.2 of
the LOPDGDD, with respect to the offense committed by violating what is established in the
Article 32 of the GDPR, allows initially setting a penalty of €20,000 (twenty thousand
euro).

IX

imposition of measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is noted that not attending to the possible order to adopt measures imposed by
this body in the sanctioning resolution may be considered as a
administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, classified as
infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the opening of a
subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against SECURITAS DIRECT
ESPAÑA, S.A., with NIF A26106013, for the alleged violation of articles 5.1.f) and
32 of the GDPR, typified, respectively, in articles 83.5 and 83.4 of the GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT as instructor R.R.R. and, as secretary, to S.S.S.,
indicating that they may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Sub-directorate General of Inspection of
Data in the actions prior to the start of this sanctioning procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be:

- For the alleged violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5
of said regulation, an administrative fine of 30,000 euros
- For the alleged infringement of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4 of
said regulation, an administrative fine of 20,000 euros

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to SECURITAS DIRECT ESPAÑA, S.A.,
with NIF A26106013, granting a hearing period of ten business days so that
Formulate the allegations and present the evidence that you consider appropriate. In its
pleadings must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears
at the top of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 40,000 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 40,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
procedure, without prejudice to the imposition of the corresponding measures.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at 30,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated 40,000 euros or 30,000 euros, you must make it effective
by entering the account number IBAN: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000 open
in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it receives.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-080323

>>

SECOND: On April 21, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 30,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202202652, in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to SECURITAS DIRECT ESPAÑA,
S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

