
Approval of internal data protection regulations of the Novelis Group
International traffic



The Lower Saxony State Commissioner for Data Protection, Barbara Thiel, has approved the internal data protection regulations (Binding Corporate Rules, BCR) of the Novelis Group. These are the first BCRs to be adopted under the leadership of Lower Saxony since the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force. After extensive examination, the Novelis Group's BCRs provide suitable guarantees for the transfer of personal data to third countries outside the European Economic Area. This means that they ensure that there is a level of data protection that is required for such transfers.

Binding Corporate Rules are a suitable instrument, especially for groups, to make data transfers between group companies in third countries permissible. In the BCR, the Group sets out regulations for handling personal data in third countries as well.

Before Novelis' data protection regulations could be approved, the provisions of the GDPR required a cooperation process to be carried out in which the other European supervisory authorities had the opportunity to examine the draft BCR. Subsequently, the LfD Lower Saxony initiated the consistency procedure before the European Data Protection Board (EDSA). In December 2020, the procedure, which was the first under the GDPR under the leadership of Lower Saxony, was successfully completed with a positive opinion from the EDSA.

"I am very pleased that an important Lower Saxony company is making use of the option of using BCR for data transfers to third countries," says state data protection officer Barbara Thiel. "The use of BCR is a good way for companies to meet data protection requirements when transferring personal data to countries outside the European Economic Area."

The approved BCRs are effective across the European Union and do not require specific approvals from other European regulators.


More information
EDPB Opinion on the Novelis BCRs
Information from the LfD Lower Saxony on the subject of BCR
Information from the EU Commission on BCR (English)

Press release as PDF download.

