 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Athens, 21/02/20
 

 

PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 

 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/1461/21/02/20
 

 

 

      

FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

A P O F A S H 2/2020
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Department)
 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

composition of the Department at its headquarters on 19.02.20 following the invitation of the President
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of her, in order to examine the case mentioned in her history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present. They were attended by Deputy President G. Batzalexis, who was disabled
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the President of the Authority K. Menoudakou, and the alternate members of the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G. Tsolias, E. Papakonstantinou, E. Dimogerontakis, as rapporteur, in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

replacement of regular members X. Anthopoulos, K. Lambrinoudakis and E.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Martsoukou respectively, who, although legally summoned in writing, were not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attended due to obstruction. Present without the right to vote were K. Karveli,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specialist scientist-lawyer, as an assistant rapporteur, who left after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

discussion of the case and before the conference and decision-making and E.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Papageorgopoulou, employee of the Authority's administrative affairs department, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

secretary.
 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

With the no. prot. C/EI /5370/06-08-2019 her complaint to the Authority, A
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

denounces D.E.H S.A. for non-satisfaction of the right of access to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data concerning it.
 

 

 

 

 

1
 

As, in particular, it mentions in its complaint to the Authority,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainant had submitted an access request to the Protection Officer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personal Data of PPC S.A. requesting a copy of the physical and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their electronic communications for the period from 2015 to the present,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

but received no relevant response.
 

 

 

 

 

Following these, the Authority sent, as part of investigating the complaint, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. prot. C/EX/5370-1/15-10-2019 document to provide clarifications to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PPC S.A., which in its response from ... and with protocol number ...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Authority, stated that a) he received from the complainant the from ... electronic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

message requesting a copy of the physical and electronic communication
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the period from 2015 to the present, b) after a thorough review
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its competent services it was found that there is no physical and electronic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication from and to the complainant, c) i. the provision under no. ... it concerns
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

professional tariff and electrifies individual business, restaurant ..., where
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

belongs to the complainant, bears the name "X" and is located at ... on the street
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

… No. ..., ii. proceeded, following the complainant's request, to adjust the up to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

then its debts from electricity consumption, iii. the complainant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

terminated the electricity contract and changed electricity provider
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the number of the above electricity supply, iv. despite him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

settlement, the complainant still owed prior ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

overdue debts and did not make any payment for repayment for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a period of more than three years, v. in accordance with article 1 par. 3 of the Code
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Electricity Supply to Customers "The old Supplier, in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case of non-compliance, on the part of the Customer, with the terms of the settlement

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

overdue debts, reserves the right to submit to the respective

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrator command disable the provision, even if it has been concluded

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supply contract with a new supplier". PPC SA as predecessor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supplier submitted a request to the administrator (DEDDIE S.A.), for deactivation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the provision, as the complainant did not comply with the terms of the settlement. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrator actually disabled the provision. vi. on her day
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interruption, the complainant contacted PPC S.A. and asked to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reconnect the electric current to the above supply. For this communication
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a written note has also been drawn up by the service of 11770. PPC S.A.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informed the complainant that the reconnection will take place shortly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

the debt is paid, d) for the year 2015 until today there is no correspondence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

physical and electronic from PPC S.A. to the complainant and vice versa,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

except the electricity consumption bills and the writing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

note of telephone service number 11770, documents which do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

constitute correspondence or communication.
 

 

 

 

Following this, the Authority with no. prot. C/EX/325/15.01.20 call of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

called PPC S.A. to attend the meeting of the Department of the Authority on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29.01.20, in order to hold a company hearing on the possible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation of the current legislation for the protection of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character. During the hearing on 29.01.20 Dimitrios Drosogiannis was present,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lawyer, ..., who, orally developed his views regarding her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case and in particular stated that PPC S.A. received from the complainant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from ... an electronic message requesting a copy of the physical and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their electronic communication for the time period from 2015 to the present, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after a thorough check by its competent services, it was found that it was not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is physical and electronic communication from and to the complainant,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

except the electricity consumption bills and the writing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

note of telephone service number 11770, documents which do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

constitute correspondence or communication.
 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, the hearing
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedure and after hearing the rapporteur and assistant rapporteur, who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after the case was discussed and before the conference and reception
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

decision, after thorough discussion
 

 

 

 

 

 

SEVEN E ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

1. The General Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Protection Regulation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Data - hereinafter GDPR), which replaced Directive 95/56 EC is in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application from May 25, 2018.
  

 

 

 

 

 

    

 in accordance with the provisions of article 15 par. 1 GDPR, the subject of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subject has the right to receive confirmation from the data controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on whether or not the personal data concerning him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are being processed and, if this happens, the right of access to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data and the detailed information
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

in the sub-cases of the said paragraph, while from par. 3 of the same article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is provided that the controller provides the data subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and a copy of the personal data being processed.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For the satisfaction of the right of information and access no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the invocation of a legal interest is required, since this exists and constitutes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis of the subject's right of access in order to obtain knowledge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information concerning it and which have been registered in a file, which is kept by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller, so that the basic principle of law for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the protection of personal data, which consists in its transparency
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing as a condition of any further control of its legality acc
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the part of the data subject (see GDPR 16/2017). Likewise, no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is required to invoke the reasons why the data subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wishes to exercise the right of access.
  

 

 

 

 

 

If the controller does not act on his request
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject of the data, informs within one month of its receipt
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

request the data subject for the reasons why not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also acted on the possibility of filing a complaint with a supervisory authority and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of legal action (article 12 par. 4 GDPR). The deadline in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

can be extended by two more months, if required, received
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

considering the complexity of the request and the number of requests (Article 12
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 3 of the GDPR). It is pointed out that the controller even when not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

keeps a file with data of the subject, is not exempt from this reason
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from his obligation to answer even in the negative (tE 2627/2017).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Also, in accordance with the provisions of article 58 par. 2 item i of the GDPR,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

each supervisory authority has, among other things, the authority to impose administrative
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fine under article 83, depending on the circumstances of each individual
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case.
 

2. From the elements of the file and the hearing process they emerged
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The following:
  

 

  

Complainant A by electronic letter to the Responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Protection of Personal Data of PPC S.A., had submitted a request
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of her access to their physical and electronic communication for the time period
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from 2015 to date, but did not receive a relevant response. PPC through him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personal Data Protection Officer through the provision document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 

clarifications (no. ...) to the Authority, replied that there is no physical and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic correspondence requested by the complainant from the year 2015 to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

today. In addition, he stated that the administrator (DEDDIE SA) proceeded to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deactivation of the supply, following a request from PPC S.A., as the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainant did not comply with the terms of the settlement and did not proceed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

payment of overdue debts.
 

 

 

 

             

However, PPC SA, as data controller, did not respond to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainant within one month of receiving the request and did not inform, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

owed the complainant within one month of receiving the request, for her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inability to immediately respond and satisfy her request as well as for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the reasons for the delay, requesting a further extension of the deadline, v
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation of the provisions of article 12 par. 3 and 4 of the GDPR. The same offense
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i.e. the delayed response of PPC S.A. as a controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after the lapse of one month from the receipt of the request it was established with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the earlier decision 15/2019 of the Authority.
 

 

 

 

 

 

3. In view of the specific violation that is, after the lapse
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

one month from the receipt of the request, PPC SA, as responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, did not respond to the complainant regarding the weakness
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

immediate satisfaction of her request, and taking into account her relapse
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to the previous same violation established with the aforementioned one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

decision of the Authority 15/2019, the Authority unanimously judges that in the specific
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case, based on the circumstances established, should be applicable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the provision of article 58 par. 2 sec. GDPR to be enforced effectively,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proportionate and dissuasive administrative fine according to art. 83 GDPR for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the punishment of this illegal behavior.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

The Authority taking into account the above:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

It imposes on PPC S.A. an effective, proportional and deterrent measure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrative fine appropriate to the specific case in accordance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the special circumstances thereof, amounting to five thousand (5,000.00) euros.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
 



The Deputy President

 

 

     

              

    

The Secretary
  

 

 

 

 

 

George Batzalexis
   

 

 

                  

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

6
 

