 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that  

supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with  

the EU level of protection of personal data 

Version 2.0 

Adopted on 18 June 2021 

 

Adopted 

 

1 

 

Version history 
 

Version 2.0 
 
Version 1.0 
 

 
 

18 June 2021 

Adoption of the Recommendations after public consultation 

10 November 2020 

Adoption of the Recommendations for public consulation 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

 

Executive summary 

The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was adopted to serve a dual-purpose: facilitating 
the free flow of personal data within the European Union, while preserving the fundamental rights and 
freedoms of individuals, in particular their right to the protection of personal data.  

In its recent judgment C-311/18 (Schrems II) the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) reminds 
us that the protection granted to personal data in the European Economic Area (EEA) must travel with 
the  data  wherever  it  goes.  Transferring  personal  data  to  third  countries  cannot  be  a  means  to 
undermine  or  water  down  the  protection  it  is  afforded  in  the  EEA.  The  Court  also  asserts  this  by 
clarifying that the level of protection in third countries does not need to be identical to that guaranteed 
within the EEA but essentially equivalent. The Court also upholds the validity of standard contractual 
clauses,  as  a  transfer  tool  that may  serve  to ensure contractually  an  essentially  equivalent  level of 
protection for data transferred to third countries.  

Standard contractual clauses and other transfer tools mentioned under Article 46 GDPR do not operate 
in a vacuum. The Court states that controllers or processors, acting as exporters, are responsible for 
verifying, on a case-by-case basis and, where appropriate, in collaboration with the importer in the 
third  country,  if  the  law  or  practice  of  the  third  country  impinges  on  the  effectiveness  of  the 
appropriate safeguards contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tools. In those cases, the Court still 
leaves open the possibility for exporters to implement supplementary measures that fill these gaps in 
the  protection  and  bring  it  up  to  the  level  required  by  EU  law.  The  Court  does  not  specify  which 
measures these could be. However, the Court underlines that exporters will need to identify them on 
a  case-by-case  basis.  This  is  in  line  with  the  principle  of  accountability  of  Article  5.2  GDPR,  which 
requires  controllers  to  be  responsible  for,  and  be  able  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  the  GDPR 
principles relating to processing of personal data.  

To  help  exporters  (be  they  controllers  or  processors,  private  entities  or  public  bodies,  processing 
personal data within the scope of application of the GDPR) with the complex task of assessing third 
countries  and  identifying  appropriate  supplementary  measures  where  needed,  the  European  Data 
Protection  Board  (EDPB)  has  adopted  these  recommendations.  These  recommendations  provide 
exporters with  a series of steps to follow,  potential sources of information, and some  examples of 
supplementary measures that could be put in place.  

As  a  first  step,  the  EDPB  advises  you,  exporters,  to  know  your  transfers.  Mapping  all  transfers  of 
personal data to third countries can be a difficult exercise. Being aware of where the personal data 
goes is however necessary to ensure that it is afforded an essentially equivalent level of protection 
wherever it is processed. You must also verify that the data you transfer is adequate, relevant and 
limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which it is processed.  

A second step is to verify the transfer tool your transfer relies on, amongst those listed under Chapter 
V GDPR. If the European Commission has already declared the country, region or sector to which you 
are transferring the data as adequate, through one of its adequacy decisions under Article 45 GDPR or 
under the previous Directive 95/46 as long as the decision is still in force, you will not need to take any 
further steps, other than monitoring that the adequacy decision remains valid. In the absence of an 
adequacy decision, you need to rely on one of the transfer tools listed under Articles 46 GDPR. Only in 
some cases you may be able to rely on one of the derogations provided for in Article 49 GDPR if you 
meet the conditions. Derogations cannot become “the rule” in practice, but need to be restricted to 
specific situations.  

A third step is to assess if there is anything in the law and/or practices in force of the third country 
that  may  impinge  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  appropriate  safeguards  of  the  transfer  tools  you  are 
relying  on,  in  the  context  of  your  specific  transfer.  Your  assessment  should  be  focused  first  and 
foremost on third country legislation that is relevant to your transfer and the Article 46 GDPR transfer 
tool you are relying on. Examining also the practices of the third country’s public authorities will allow 

Adopted 

 

3 

 

you  to  verify  if  the  safeguards  contained  in  the  transfer  tool  can  ensure,  in  practice,  the  effective 
protection of the personal data transferred.  Examining these practices will be especially relevant for 
your assessment where:  

(i) legislation in the third country formally meeting EU standards is manifestly not applied/complied 
with in practice;  

(ii)  there  are  practices  incompatible  with  the  commitments  of  the  transfer  tool  where  relevant 
legislation in the third country is lacking;  

(iii) your transferred data and/or importer fall or might fall within the scope of problematic legislation 
(i.e.  impinging  on  the  transfer  tool’s  contractual  guarantee  of  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of 
protection and not meeting EU standards on fundamental rights, necessity and proportionality).   

In the first two situations, you will have to suspend the transfer or implement adequate supplementary 
measures if you wish to proceed with it. 

In  the  third  situation,  in  light  of  uncertainties  surrounding  the  potential  application of  problematic 
legislation  to  your  transfer,  you  may  decide  to:  suspend  the  transfer;  implement  supplementary 
measures to proceed with it; or alternatively, you may decide to proceed with the transfer without 
implementing supplementary measures if you consider and are able to demonstrate and document 
that you have no reason to believe that relevant and problematic legislation will be interpreted and/or 
applied in practice so as to cover your transferred data and importer.  

For evaluating the elements to be taken into account when assessing the law of a third country dealing 
with  access  to  data  by  public  authorities  for  the  purpose  of  surveillance,  please  refer  to  the  EDPB 
European Essential Guarantees recommendations.  

You should conduct this assessment with due diligence and document it thoroughly. Your competent 
supervisory and/or judicial authorities may request it and hold you accountable for any decision you 
take on that basis. 

A fourth step is to identify and adopt supplementary measures that are necessary to bring the level 
of protection of the data transferred up to the EU standard of essential equivalence. This step is only 
necessary if your assessment reveals that the third country legislation and/or practices impinge on the 
effectiveness of the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on or you intend to rely on in the 
context  of  your  transfer.  These  recommendations  contain  (in  Annex  2)  a  non-exhaustive  list  of 
examples of supplementary measures with some of the conditions they would require to be effective. 
As  is  the  case  for  the  appropriate  safeguards  contained  in  the  Article  46  transfer  tools,  some 
supplementary measures may be effective in some countries, but not necessarily in others. You will be 
responsible for assessing  their effectiveness  in the  context  of the transfer, and in light  of the third 
country law and practices and the transfer tool you are relying on, as you will be held accountable for 
any decision you take on that basis. This might also require you to combine several supplementary 
measures.  You  may  ultimately  find  that  no  supplementary  measure  can  ensure  an  essentially 
equivalent  level  of  protection  for  your  specific  transfer.  In  those  cases  where  no  supplementary 
measure  is suitable, you must  avoid,  suspend or  terminate the transfer to avoid compromising the 
level of protection of the personal data. You should also conduct this assessment of supplementary 
measures with due diligence and document it.  

A fifth step is to take any formal procedural steps the adoption of your supplementary measure may 
require, depending on the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on. These recommendations 
specify some of these formalities. You may need to consult your competent supervisory authorities on 
some of them.  

The sixth and final step is to re-evaluate at appropriate intervals the level of protection afforded to 
the personal data you transfer to third countries and to monitor if there have been or there will be any 

Adopted 

 

4 

 

developments that may affect it. The principle of accountability requires continuous vigilance of the 
level of protection of personal data.   

Supervisory authorities will continue exercising their mandate to monitor the application of the GDPR 
and  enforce  it.  Supervisory  authorities  will  pay  due  consideration  to  the  actions  exporters  take  to 
ensure that the data they transfer is afforded an essentially equivalent level of protection. As the Court 
recalls, supervisory authorities will suspend or prohibit data transfers in those cases where they find 
that an essentially equivalent level of protection cannot be ensured, following an investigation or a 
complaint. 

Supervisory authorities will continue developing guidance for exporters and coordinating their actions 
in the EDPB to ensure consistency in the application of EU data protection law. 

 

 

Adopted 

 

5 

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1 

2 

Accountability in data transfers ...................................................................................................... 9 

Roadmap: applying the principle of accountability to data transfers in practice ......................... 10 

 

 

Step 1: Know your transfers .................................................................................................. 10 

Step 2: Identify the transfer tools you are relying on ........................................................... 11 

 

Step 3: Assess whether the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on is effective in 
light of all circumstances of the transfer ........................................................................................... 14 

 

 

 

Step 4: Adopt supplementary measures ............................................................................... 21 

Step 5: Procedural steps if you have identified effective supplementary measures ............ 23 

Step 6: Re-evaluate at appropriate intervals ........................................................................ 25 

3 

Conclusion ..................................................................................................................................... 25 

ANNEX 1: DEFINITIONS .......................................................................................................................... 27 

ANNEX 2: EXAMPLES OF SUPPLEMENTARY MEASURES ........................................................................ 28 

2.1 Technical measures ..................................................................................................................... 28 

2.2 Additional contractual measures ................................................................................................ 36 

2.3 Organisational measures ............................................................................................................. 43 

ANNEX 3: POSSIBLE SOURCES OF INFORMATION TO ASSESS A THIRD COUNTRY ................................ 47 

 
 

 

Adopted 

 

6 

 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 70(1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the  protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter 
“GDPR”), 
 
Having  regard  to  the  European  Economic  Area  (EEA)  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and 
Protocol 37 thereof, as amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 
20181, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 
 
 
Whereas:  
 
(1) The Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) concludes in its judgment of 16 July 2020 Data 
Protection Commissioner v. Facebook Ireland LTD, Maximillian Schrems, C-311/18 that Article 46 (1) 
and  46  (2)(c)  of  the  GDPR  must  be  interpreted  as  meaning  that  the  appropriate  safeguards, 
enforceable rights and effective legal remedies required by those provisions must ensure that data 
subjects whose personal data are transferred to a third country pursuant to standard data protection 
clauses  are  afforded  a  level  of  protection  essentially  equivalent  to  that  guaranteed  within  the 
European Union by that regulation, read in the light of the Charter of the Fundamental Rights of the 
European Union.2  
 
(2) As underlined by the Court, a level of protection of natural persons essentially equivalent to that 
guaranteed  within  the  European  Union  by  the  GDPR,  read  in  the  light  of  the  Charter,  must  be 
guaranteed irrespective of the provision of Chapter V on the basis of which a transfer of personal data 
to a third country is carried out. The provisions of Chapter V intend to ensure the continuity of that 
high level of protection where personal data is transferred to a third country.3  
 
(3)  Recital 108  and  Article  46  (1)  GDPR  provide  that  in  the  absence  of  an  EU adequacy  decision,  a 
controller or processor should take measures to compensate for the lack of data protection in a third 
country by way of appropriate safeguards for the data subject. A controller or processor may provide 
appropriate  safeguards,  without  requiring  any  specific  authorisation  from  a  supervisory  authority, 
through its use of one of the transfer tools listed under Article 46 (2) GDPR, such as standard data 
protection clauses.  
 
(4) The Court clarifies that the standard data protection clauses adopted by the Commission are solely 
intended to provide contractual guarantees that apply uniformly in all third countries to controllers 
and  processors  established  in  the  European  Union.  Due  to  their  contractual  nature,  standard  data 
protection clauses cannot bind the public authorities of third countries, since they are not party to the 
contract. Consequently, data exporters may need to supplement the guarantees contained in those 

                                                           
1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 CJEU judgment of 16 July 2020, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd, Maximillian Schrems, 
(hereinafter C-311/18 (Schrems II)), second finding. 
3 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 92 and 93.  

Adopted 

 

7 

 

standard data protection clauses with supplementary measures to ensure compliance with the level 
of protection required under EU law in a particular third country. The Court refers to recital 109 of the 
GDPR, which mentions this possibility and encourages controllers and processors to use it.4 
 
(5) The Court stated that it is above all, for the data exporter to verify, on a case-by-case basis and, 
where appropriate, in collaboration with the importer of the data, whether the law of the third country 
of destination ensures an essentially equivalent level of protection, under EU law, of personal data 
transferred  pursuant  to  standard  data  protection  clauses,  by  providing,  where  necessary, 
supplementary measures to those offered by those clauses.5  
 
(6) If the controller or a processor established in the European Union is not able to take appropriate 
supplementary measures to guarantee an essentially equivalent level of protection under EU law, the 
controller or processor or, failing that, the competent supervisory authority, are required to suspend 
or end the transfer of personal data to the third country concerned.6  
 
(7) The GDPR or the Court do not define or specify the “additional safeguards”, “additional measures” 
or “supplementary measures” to the safeguards of the transfer tools listed under Article 46.2 of the 
GDPR that controllers and processors may adopt to ensure compliance with the level of protection 
required under EU law in a particular third country.   
 
(8)The EDPB has decided, on its own initiative, to examine this question and to provide controllers and 
processors, acting as exporters, with recommendations on the process they may follow to identify and 
adopt  supplementary  measures.  These  recommendations  aim  at  providing  a  methodology  for  the 
exporters to determine whether and which additional measures would need to be put in place for their 
transfers. It is the primary responsibility of exporters to ensure that the data transferred is afforded in 
the third country of a level of protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the EEA. With 
these  recommendations,  the  EDPB  seeks  to encourage  consistent  application of  the  GDPR  and  the 
Court’s ruling, pursuant to the EDPB’s mandate.7  
 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATIONS: 
 

 

                                                           
4 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 132 and 133. 
5 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 134. 
6 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 135. 
7 Article 70.1.e GDPR.  

Adopted 

 

8 

 

1  ACCOUNTABILITY IN DATA TRANSFERS 

1.  EU primary law considers the right to data protection as a fundamental right.8 Accordingly, the 
right to data protection is afforded a high level of protection and limitations may only be made if 
they are provided for by law, respect the essence of its right, are proportionate, necessary and 
genuinely meet objectives of general interest recognised by the Union or the need to protect the 
rights and freedoms of others.9 The right to the protection of personal  data is not an absolute 
right; it must be considered in relation to its function in society and be balanced against other 
fundamental rights, in accordance with the principle of proportionality.10  

2.  An essentially equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed within the EU must accompany 
the data when it travels to third countries outside the EEA to ensure that the level of protection 
guaranteed by the GDPR is not undermined, both during and after the transfer.  

3.  The right to data protection has an active nature. It requires exporters and importers (whether 
they are controllers and/or processors) to go beyond an acknowledgement or passive compliance 
with this right.11 Controllers and processors must seek to comply with the right to data protection 
in an active and continuous manner by implementing legal, technical and organisational measures 
that ensure its effectiveness. Controllers and processors must also be able to demonstrate these 
efforts to data subjects and data protection supervisory authorities. This is the so called principle 
of accountability.12  

4.  The principle of accountability, which is necessary to ensure the effective application of the level 
of protection conferred by the GDPR also applies to data transfers to third countries13 since they 
are a form of data processing in themselves.14 As the Court underlined in its judgment, a level of 
protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the European Union by the GDPR read 
in the light of the Charter must be guaranteed irrespective of the provision of that chapter on the 
basis of which a transfer of personal data to a third country is carried out.15 

5. 

In the Schrems II judgment, the Court emphasizes the responsibilities of exporters and importers 
to ensure that the processing of personal data has been and will continue to be carried out in 
compliance with the level of protection set by EU data protection law and to suspend the transfer 
and/or  terminate  the  contract  where  the  importer  of  the  data  is  not,  or  is  no  longer,  able  to 
comply with standard data protection clauses incorporated in the relevant contract between the 
exporter and the importer.16 The controller or processor acting as exporter must ensure that the 
importers  collaborate  with  the  exporter,  where  appropriate,  in  its  performance  of  these 
responsibilities, by keeping it informed, for instance, of any development affecting the level of 

                                                           
8 Article 8(1) Charter of Fundamental Rights and Article 16 (1) TFEU, preamble 1, Article 1 (2) GDPR. 
9 Article 52(1) of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. 
10 Recital 4 of the GDPR and C-507/17 Google LLC, successor in law to Google Inc. v. Commission nationale de 
l’informatique et des libertés (CNIL), paragraph 60. 
11 C-92/09 and C-93/02, Volker und Markus Schecke GbR v. Land Hessen, Opinion of Advocate General Sharpston, 
17 June 2010, paragraph 71. 
12 Article 5.2 and Article 28.3 (h) GDPR. 
13 Article 44 and recital 101 GDPR, as well as Article 47(2)(d) GDPR. 
14 CJEU judgment of 6 October 2015, Maximillian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner, (hereinafter C-362/14 
(Schrems I)), paragraph 45. 
15 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 92 and 93. 
16 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 134, 135, 139, 140, 141, 142. 

Adopted 

 

9 

 

protection of the personal data received in the importer’s country.17 These responsibilities are an 
application of the GDPR principle of accountability to the data transfers.18   

2  ROADMAP: APPLYING THE PRINCIPLE OF ACCOUNTABILITY TO DATA 

TRANSFERS IN PRACTICE 

6.  What follows is a roadmap of the steps to take in order to find out if you (the data exporter) need 
to put in place supplementary measures to be able to legally transfer data outside the EEA. “You” 
in this document means the controller or processor acting as data exporter,19 processing personal 
data within the scope of application of the GDPR – including processing by private entities and 
public bodies when transferring data to private bodies-.20 As for transfers of personal data carried 
out between public bodies, specific guidance is provided for in the Guidelines 2/2020 on Articles 
46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of personal data between EEA and 
non-EEA public authorities and bodies.21   

7.  You will need to document appropriately this assessment and the supplementary measures you 
select  and  implement  and  make  such  documentation  available  to  the  competent  supervisory 
authority upon request.22  

  Step 1: Know your transfers 

8.  To  know  what  may  be  required  for  you  (the  data  exporter)  to  be  able  to  continue  with  or  to 
conduct new transfers of personal data,23 the first step is to ensure that you are fully aware of 
your  transfers  (know  your  transfers).  Recording  and  mapping  all  transfers  can  be  a  complex 
exercise for entities engaging into multiple, diverse and regular transfers with third countries and 
using a series of processors and sub-processors. Knowing your transfers is an essential first step 
to fulfil your obligations under the principle of accountability.  

9.  To gain full awareness of your transfers, you can build on the records of processing activities that 
you  may  be  obliged  to  maintain  as  controller  or  processor  under  Article  30  GDPR.24  Previous 

                                                           
17 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 134. 
18 Article 5 (2) and Article 28 (3) (h) GDPR. 
19 Therefore, for example, you will not be considered a data exporter if you are a data subject providing your 
personal data via an online questionnaire to a controller established in a third country.  
20 See EDPB Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3) https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-
tools/our-documents/guidelines/guidelines-32018-territorial-scope-gdpr-article-3-version_en   
21 EDPB Guidelines 2/2020 on Articles 46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of personal 
data  between  EEA  and  non-EEA  public  authorities  and  bodies;  see  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-
tools/public-consultations-art-704/2020/guidelines-22020-articles-46-2-and-46-3-b_en  
22 Article 5(2) GDPR and Article 24 (1) GDPR. 
23 Please note that remote access by an entity from a third country to data located in the EEA is also considered 
a transfer.  
24 See Article 30 GDPR and in particular paragraphs 1.e and 2.c. Moreover, your records of processing should 
contain a description of your processing activities (including, but not limited to, the categories of data subjects, 
the categories of personal data and purposes of the processing and specific information about data transfers. 
Some  controllers  and  processors  are  exempt  from  the  obligation  to  keep  records  of  processing  (Article  30.5 
GDPR). For guidance on this exemption, see Article 29 Working Party, Position Paper on the derogations from 
the obligation to maintain records of processing activities pursuant to Article 30.5 GDPR (endorsed by the EDPB 
on 25 May 2018). 

Adopted 

 

10 

 

actions to fulfil the obligations to inform data subjects under Articles 13.1.f and 14.1.f GPDR about 
your transfers of their personal data to third countries may also assist you.25 

10. When mapping transfers, do not forget to also take into account onward transfers, for instance 
whether your processors outside the EEA transfer the personal data you entrusted to them to a 
sub-processor in another third country or in the same third country.26  

11. In line with the GDPR principle of “data minimisation”,27 you must verify that the data you transfer 
is adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which it is 
processed.  

12. These activities must be carried out before any transfer is made and updated prior to resuming 
transfers after suspension of data transfer operations: you must know where the personal data 
you exported may be located or processed by the importers (map of destinations).  

13. Keep in mind that remote access from a third country (for example in support situations) and/or 
storage in a cloud situated outside the EEA offered by a service provider, is also considered to be 
a  transfer.28  More  specifically,  if  you  are  using  an  international  cloud  infrastructure  you  must 
assess if your data will be transferred to third countries and where, unless the cloud provider is 
established in the EEA and it clearly states in its contract that the data will not be processed at all 
in third countries.  

 

  Step 2: Identify the transfer tools you are relying on 

14. A second step you must take is to identify the transfer tools you are relying on amongst those 

Chapter V GDPR lists and envisages.   

Adequacy decisions 

15. The European Commission may recognise through its adequacy decisions relating to some or all 
of the third countries to which you are transferring personal data that they offer an adequate 
level of protection for personal data.29  

                                                           
25  Under  GDPR  transparency  rules,  you  must  inform  data  subjects  about  transfers  of  personal  data  to  third 
countries (Articles 13.1.f and 14.1.f GDPR). In particular, you must inform them of the existence or absence of an 
adequacy decision by the European Commission, or in the case of transfers referred to in Articles 46 or 47 GDPR, 
or the second subparagraph of Article 49.1 GDPR, refer to the appropriate or suitable safeguards and the means 
by which to obtain a copy of them or where they have been made available. The information provided to the 
data subject must be correct and current, especially in light of the Court’s case law concerning transfers. 
26 Where the controller has granted its prior specific or general written authorisation in accordance with Article 
28.2 GDPR.  
27 Article 5.1.c GDPR. 
28 See FAQ nr. 11 “it should be borne in mind that even providing access to data from a third country, for instance 
for administration purposes, also amounts to a transfer”, EDPB Frequently Asked Questions on the judgment of 
the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-311/18 - Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland 
Ltd and Maximillian Schrems, 23 July 2020. 
29 The European Commission has the power to determine, on the basis of Article 45 GDPR whether a country 
outside the EU offers an adequate level of data protection. Likewise the European Commission has the power to 
determine that an international organisation offers an adequate level of protection.  

Adopted 

 

11 

 

16. The effect of such an adequacy decision is that personal data can flow from the EEA to that third 

country without any Article 46 GDPR transfer tool being necessary.  

17. Adequacy  decisions  may  cover  a  country  as  a  whole  or  be  limited  to  a  part  of  it.  Adequacy 
decisions may cover all data transfers to a country or be limited to some types of transfers (e.g. 
in one sector).30  

18. The European Commission publishes the list of its adequacy decisions on its website.31 

19. If  you  transfer  personal  data  to  third  countries,  regions  or  sectors  covered  by  a  Commission 
adequacy  decision  (to  the  extent  applicable),  you  do  not  need  to  take  any  further  steps  as 
described in these recommendations.32 However, you must still monitor if adequacy decisions 
relevant to your transfers are revoked or invalidated.33 

20. However, adequacy decisions do not prevent data subjects from filing a complaint. Nor do they 
prevent supervisory authorities from bringing a case before a national court if they have doubts 
about the validity of a decision, so that a national court can make a reference for a preliminary 
ruling to the CJEU for the purpose of examining that validity.34  

Example:  
 
An EU citizen, Mr. Schrems, filed a complaint on June 2013 with the Irish Data Protection Commission 
(DPC) and asked this supervisory authority to prohibit or suspend the transfer of his personal data from 
Facebook Ireland to the United States, as he considered that the law and practice of the United States 
did not ensure adequate protection of the personal data held in its territory against the surveillance 
activities that were engaged in there by the public authorities. The DPC rejected the complaint, on the 
ground, in particular, that in Decision 2000/520 the European Commission considered that, under the 
‘safe harbour’ scheme, the United States ensured an adequate level of protection of the personal data 
transferred (the Safe Harbour Decision).  Mr. Schrems challenged the decision of the DPC and the Irish 
High  Court  referred  a  question  on  the  validity  of  Decision  2000/520  to  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the 
European  Union  (CJEU).  The  CJEU  subsequently  decided  to  invalidate  the  Commission  Decision 
2000/520 on the adequacy of the protection provided by the safe harbour privacy principles.35  
 

                                                           
30 Article 45.1 GDPR. 
31https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/international-dimension-data-
protection/adequacy-decisions_en  
32 Provided you and data importer have implemented measures to comply with the other obligations under the 
GDPR; otherwise implement those measures. 
33 The European Commission must review periodically all adequacy decisions and monitor if the third countries 
benefitting from adequacy decisions continue to ensure an adequate level of protection (see Art. 45.3 and 45.4 
GDPR). Also, the CJEU may invalidate adequacy decisions (see its judgments on the cases C-362/14 (Schrems I) 
and C-311/18 (Schrems II). 
34 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 118 - 120. Supervisory authorities may not disregard the adequacy decision 
and suspend or prohibit transfers of personal data to such countries citing only the inadequacy of the level of 
protection. They may only exercise their power to suspend or prohibit transfers of personal data to that third 
country on other grounds (e.g. insufficient security measures in violation of Article 32 GDPR, no legal basis validly 
underpins the data processing as such in violation of Article 6 GDPR). Supervisory authorities may examine, with 
complete independence, whether the transfer of that data complies with the requirements laid down by the 
GDPR and, where relevant, bring an action before the national courts in order for them, if they have doubts as 
to the validity of the Commission adequacy decision, to make a reference for a preliminary ruling before the 
European Court of Justice for the purposes of examining its validity.  
35 Case C-362/14 (Schrems I). 

Adopted 

 

12 

 

Article 46 GDPR transfer tools 

21. Article 46 GDPR lists a series of transfer tools containing “appropriate safeguards” that exporters 
may use to transfer personal data to third countries in the absence of adequacy decisions. The 
main types of Article 46 GDPR transfer tools are: 

-  standard data protection clauses clauses (SCCs); 
-  binding corporate rules (BCRs); 
-  codes of conduct; 
-  certification mechanisms; 
-  ad hoc contractual clauses. 

22. Whatever Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you choose, you must ensure that, overall, the transferred 

personal data will benefit from an essentially equivalent level of protection.  

23. Article 46 GDPR transfer tools mainly contain appropriate safeguards of a contractual nature that 
may be applied to transfers to all third countries. The situation in the third country to which you 
are transferring data may still require that you supplement these transfer tools and the safeguards 
they  contain  with  additional  measures  (“supplementary  measures”)  to  ensure  an  essentially 
equivalent level of protection.36 

Derogations 

24. Besides adequacy decisions and Article 46 GDPR transfer tools, the GDPR contains a third avenue 
allowing transfers of personal data in certain situations. Subject to specific conditions, you may 
still be able to transfer personal data based on a derogation listed in Article 49 GDPR.  

25. Article 49 GDPR has an exceptional nature. The derogations it contains must be interpreted in a 
way which does not contradict the very nature of the derogations as being exceptions from the 
rule that personal data may not be transferred to a third country unless the country provides for 
an adequate level of data protection or, alternatively, appropriate safeguards are put in place. 
Derogations cannot become “the rule” in practice, but need to be restricted to specific situations. 
The  EDPB  has  issued  its  Guidelines  2/2018  on  derogations  of  Article  49  under  Regulation 
2016/679.37 

26.   Before relying on an Article 49 GDPR derogation, you must check whether your transfer meets 

the strict conditions this provision sets forth for each of them. 

*** 

27. If  your  transfer  can  neither  be  legally  based  on  an  adequacy  decision,  nor  on  an  Article  49 

derogation, you need to continue with Step 3.  

 

 

                                                           
36 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 130 and 133. See also sub-section 2.3 below.  
37 For further guidance on this see  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/guidelines/guidelines-22018-derogations-article-49-under-regulation_en. 

Adopted 

 

13 

 

 

  Step  3:  Assess  whether  the  Article  46  GDPR  transfer  tool  you  are  relying  on  is 
effective in light of all circumstances of the transfer 

28. The  selected  Article  46  GDPR  transfer  tool  must  be  effective  in  ensuring  that  the  level  of 

protection guaranteed by the GDPR is not undermined by the transfer in practice.38  

29. In particular, the protection afforded to the transferred personal data in the third country must 
be essentially equivalent to that guaranteed in the EEA by the GDPR, read in light of the Charter 
of Fundamental Rights of the  EU.39  This is not the case if the  data importer is prevented from 
complying with its obligations under the chosen Article 46 GDPR transfer tool due to the third 
country’s legislation and practices applicable to the transfer, including during the transit of data 
from the exporter to the importer’s country.40 

30. You must first assess, where appropriate in collaboration with the importer, if there is anything in 
the law and/or practices in force41 in the third country that may impinge on the effectiveness of 
the appropriate safeguards of the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on, in the context 
of your specific transfer. This implies determining whether your transfer falls within the scope of 
legislation  and/or  practices  which  may  impinge  on  the  effectiveness  of  your  Article  46  GDPR 
transfer tool. The assessment required must be based first and foremost on legislation publicly 
available.  

31. This assessment  must contain elements concerning access to data  by public authorities of the 

third country of your importer such as: 

-  Elements  on  whether  public  authorities  of  the  third  country  of  your  importer  may  seek  to 
access the data with or without the data importer’s knowledge, in light of legislation, practice 
and reported precedents;  

-  Elements on whether public authorities of the third country of your importer may be able to 
access  the  data  through  the  data  importer  or  through  the  telecommunication  providers or 
communication channels in light of legislation, legal powers, technical, financial, and human 
resources at their disposal and of reported precedents. 

Identifying laws and practices relevant in light of all circumstances of the transfer  

32. You will need to look into the characteristics of each of your transfers and determine whether the 
domestic  legal  order  and/or  practices  in  force  of  the  country  to  which  data  is  transferred  (or 
onward transferred) affect your transfers.  The  scope of your assessment is thus limited to the 
legislation and practices relevant to the protection of the specific data you transfer, in contrast 
with  the  general  and  wide  encompassing  adequacy  assessments  the  European  Commission 
carries out in accordance with Article 45 GDPR.   

                                                           
38 Article 44 GDPR and paragraphs 126, 137 and 148 of C-311/18 (Schrems II).  
39 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 105 and second finding. 
40 See C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 183 in conjunction with paragraph 184. 
41 See paragraph 126 of the C-311/18 (Schrems II) Judgment in which the Court explicitly alludes to “the law and 
practices in force in the third country concerned” and requires “(...) ensuring, in practice, the effective protection 
of personal data transferred to the third country concerned.” (emphasis added), and paragraph 158. 

Adopted 

 

14 

 

33.  The applicable legal context and/or practices will depend on the specific circumstances of your 

transfer, in particular: 

-  Purposes  for  which  the  data  are  transferred  and  processed  (e.g.  marketing,  HR,  storage,  IT 

support, clinical trials); 

-  Types of entities involved in the processing (public/private; controller/processor); 
-  Sector in which the transfer occurs (e.g. adtech, telecommunication, financial, etc); 
-  Categories of personal data transferred (e.g. personal data relating to children may fall within 

the scope of specific legislation in the third country);42  

-  Whether the data will be stored in the third country or whether there is remote access to data 

stored within the EU/EEA; 

-  Format of the data to be transferred (i.e. in plain text/ pseudonymised or encrypted43); 
-  Possibility that the data may be subject to onward transfers from the third country to another 

third country.44 

34.  Your assessment should take into consideration all the actors participating in the transfer (e.g. 
controllers, processors and sub-processors processing data in the third country), as identified in 
the mapping exercise of transfers. The more controllers, processors or importers involved, the 
more  complex  your  assessment  will  be.  You  will  also  need  to  factor  into  this  assessment  any 
envisaged onward transfer.  

35. You should in any case pay specific attention to any relevant laws, in particular laws laying down 
requirements to disclose personal data to public authorities or granting such public authorities 
powers  of  access  to  personal  data  (for  instance  for  criminal  law  enforcement,  regulatory 
supervision  or  national  security  purposes).  If  these  requirements  or  powers  restrict  the 
fundamental  rights  of  data  subjects  while  respecting  their  essence  and  being  necessary  and 
proportionate  measures  in  a  democratic  society  to  safeguard  important  objectives  as  also 
recognised  in  Union  or  EU  Member  States’  law,45  they  may  not  impinge  on  the  commitments 
contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on.  

36. You will need to assess relevant rules and practices of a general nature insofar as they have an 
impact on the effective application of the safeguards contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer 
tool.  

                                                           
42 A transfer of personal data is a processing operation (Article 4.2 GDPR). If you wish to transfer sensitive data 
falling under Articles 9 and 10 GDPR you may only conduct a transfer if it falls within one of the derogations and 
conditions set forth in Articles 9 and 10 GDPR and EU Member States’ law. In accordance with Article 32 GDPR, 
you will also need to implement, with the importer acting as controller or processor, appropriate technical and 
organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risks to the rights and freedoms of data 
subjects posed by a potential personal data breach of the data transferred (Article 4.12 GDPR). The categories of 
data transferred and their sensitiveness will be relevant to the assessment of the risk and the appropriateness 
of the measures. 
43 Some third countries do not permit encrypted data to be imported. 
44 Where the controller has granted its prior specific or general written authorisation in accordance with Article 
28.2 GDPR. 
45  See  Articles  47  and  52  of  the  EU  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights,  Article  23.1  GDPR,  and  EDPB 
Recommendations  02/2020  on  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures,  10  November 
2020, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/edpb-recommendations-
022020-european-essential_en . 

Adopted 

 

15 

 

37.  In carrying out this assessment, different aspects of the legal system of that third country, e.g. the 
elements listed in Article 45(2) GDPR, are also relevant. For example, the rule of law situation in 
a third country may be relevant to assess the effectiveness of available mechanisms for individuals 
to obtain (judicial) redress against unlawful government access to personal data. The existence of 
a  comprehensive  data  protection  law  or  an  independent  data  protection  authority,  as  well  as 
adherence to international instruments providing for data protection safeguards, may contribute 
to ensuring the proportionality of government interference.  

38. The obligations or powers resulting from such laws and practices will be considered to impinge 

on/be incompatible with the commitments of the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool if they46: 

  Do  not  respect  the  essence  of  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  EU  Charter  of 

Fundamental Rights, or 

  Exceed what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard one of the 
important objectives as also recognised in Union or member state law such as those listed in 
Article 23 (1) GDPR. 

39. You  should  verify  if  the  data  importer’s  commitments  enabling  data  subjects  to  exercise  their 
rights as provided in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool (such as access, correction and deletion 
requests for transferred data, as well as (judicial) redress) can be effectively applied in practice 
and are not thwarted by the laws and/or practices in the third country of destination. 

40. EU standards, such as Articles 47 and 52 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, must be used 
as a reference, in particular to assess whether access by public authorities is limited to what is 
necessary  and  proportionate  in  a  democratic  society  and  whether  data  subjects  are  afforded 
effective redress.  

41. The EDPB European Essential Guarantees (EEG) recommendations47 provide clarifications on the 
elements which have to be assessed to determine whether the legal framework governing access 
to personal data by public authorities in a third country, being national security agencies or law 
enforcement authorities, can be regarded as a justifiable interference48 or not. In particular, this 
should  be  carefully  considered  when  the  legislation  governing  the  access  to  data  by  public 
authorities is ambiguous or not publicly available. The first requirement of the European Essential 
Guarantees  is  that  there  should  be  a  legal  framework  providing  for  such  access,  when  it  is 
envisaged, that is publicly available and sufficiently clear. 

42.  Applied to the situation of data transfers based on Article 46 transfer tools, the EDPB European 
Essential Guarantees recommendations can guide the data exporter in assessing whether such 
powers  unjustifiably  interfere  with  the  data  exporter  and  importer’s  obligations  to  ensure 
essential equivalence pursuant to the GDPR or the commitments contained in the transfer tool. 
The  lack  of  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection  will  be  especially  evident  where  the 
legislation  and/or  practices  of  the  third  country  relevant  to  your  transfer  do  not  meet  the 
requirements  of  the  European  Essential  Guarantees.  The  EDPB  reiterates  that  the  European 
Essential Guarantees are a referential standard when assessing the interference, entailed by third 

                                                           
46 See Articles 47 and 52 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 23.1 GDPR, C-311/18 (Schrems II), 
paragraphs  174  and  187,  and  EDPB  Recommendations  02/2020  on  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  for 
surveillance measures, 10 November 2020. 
47  EDPB  Recommendations  02/2020  on  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures,  10 
November 2020. 
48 And therefore as not impinging on the commitments taken in the art 46 GDPR transfer tool.  

Adopted 

 

16 

 

country  surveillance  measures,  in  the  context  of  international  data  transfers.  These  standards 
stem  from  EU  law  and  the  jurisprudence  of  the  CJEU  and  the  ECtHR,  which  is  binding  on  EU 
Member States. 

43. Your assessment must be based first and foremost on legislation publicly available. Examining also 
the practices of the  third country’s  public authorities will allow you to verify  if the safeguards 
contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool can be a sufficient means of ensuring, in practice, 
the effective protection of the personal data transferred.49 Examining the practices in force in the 
third country will be especially important for your assessment in the situations described below. 

43.1  Relevant  legislation  in  the  third  country  may  formally  meet  EU  standards  on  fundamental 
rights and freedoms and the necessity and proportionality of restrictions thereto. However, 
the practices of its public authorities (e.g. accessing personal data held by the private sector or 
when enforcing -or not- legislation as supervisory or judicial bodies) may clearly indicate that 
they do not normally apply/comply with the legislation that governs, in principle, their activities. 
In this case, you must take these practices into account in your assessment and consider that 
the  Article  46  GDPR  tool  will  not  be  able  to  effectively  ensure,  by  itself  (i.e.  without 
supplementary measures), an essentially equivalent level of protection. In such case, if you wish 
to proceed with the transfer, you will have to implement adequate supplementary measures. 

43.2 Relevant legislation in the third country (e.g. on access to personal data held by the private 
sector) may be lacking. In this case you cannot automatically infer from this absence of relevant 
legislation that your Article 46 GDPR transfer tool can be effectively applied. You will have to 
check if there are indications of practices in force in the country that are incompatible with EU 
law  and  the  commitments  of  the  Article  46  GDPR  transfer  tool.  If  there  are  incompatible 
practices, the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool will not be able to effectively ensure, by itself (i.e. 
without  adequate  supplementary measures),  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection.  In 
such  case,  if  you  wish  to  proceed  with  the  transfer,  you  will  have  to  implement  adequate 
supplementary measures. 

43.3 The assessment may reveal that relevant legislation in the third country may be problematic50 
and that the transferred data and/or the importer at hand fall or might fall within the scope 
of this problematic legislation.51   

In light of uncertainties surrounding the potential application of problematic legislation to your 
transfer, you may then decide to: 

 

 

Suspend the transfer;  

Implement supplementary measures52 to prevent the risk of potential application to your 
importer and/or to your transferred data of laws and/or practices of the third country of 

                                                           
49 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 126. 
50 ‘Problematic legislation’ is understood as legislation that 1) imposes on the recipient of personal data from the 
European Union obligations and/or affect the data transferred in a manner that may impinge on the transfer 
tools’ contractual guarantee of an essentially equivalent level of protection and 2) does not respect the essence 
of the fundamental rights and freedoms recognised by the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights or exceeds what is 
necessary  and  proportionate  in  a  democratic  society  to  safeguard  one  of  the  important  objectives  as  also 
recognised in Union or EU Member States’ law, such as those listed in Article 23 (1) GDPR. 
51 It may be unclear whether the importer and/or the data transferred fall under the scope of general terms often 
used  in  national  security  legislation  to  limit  their  scope  of  application,  such  as  for  instance  "electronic 
communication service provider" and "foreign intelligence information". 
52 See recital 109 GDPR and C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 132. 

Adopted 

 

17 

 

 

the  data  importer,  which  are  capable  of  impinging  on  the  transfer  tool’s  contractual 
guarantees of an essentially equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed in the EEA; 
or 

Alternatively,  you  may  decide  to  proceed  with  the  transfer  without  being  required  to 
implement supplementary measures, if you consider that you have no reason to believe 
that relevant and problematic legislation will be applied, in practice, to your transferred 
data and/or importer. You will need to have demonstrated and documented through your 
assessment,  where  appropriate  in  collaboration  with  the  importer,  that  the  law  is  not 
interpreted and/or applied in practice so as to cover your transferred data and importer, 
also taking into account the experience of other actors operating within the same sector 
and/or  related  to  similar  transferred  personal  data  and  the  additional  sources  of 
information described further below.53  

Therefore, you will need to have demonstrated and documented with a detailed report54 
that problematic legislation will not be applied in practice to your transferred data and/or 
importer,  and,  consequently,  that  it  will  not  prevent  the  importer  from  fulfilling  its 
obligations under the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool.55  

 

Possible sources of information 

44.  Your data importer should provide you with the relevant sources and information relating to the 
third  country  in  which  it  is  established  and  the  laws  and  practices  in  force  applicable  to  the 
transfer. 

45.  You and your importer may complete your assessment with information obtained from sources,  

such as those listed as examples in Annex 3.  

46.  In addition to the legal framework of the third country applicable to the transfer, sources and 
information should be relevant, objective, reliable, verifiable and publicly available or otherwise 
accessible to determine whether your Article 46 transfer tool can be effectively applied56 and you 
will have to assess and document that they are.  

 

 

                                                           
53 See paragraphs 45 to 47. 
54  Reports  you  will  establish  will  have  to  include  comprehensive  information  on  the  legal  assessment  of  the 
legislation and practices, and of their application to the specific transfers, the internal procedure to produce the 
assessment (including information on actors involved in the assessment-e.g. law firms, consultants, or internal 
departments-) and dates of the checks. Reports should be endorsed by the legal representative of the exporter. 
55 Demonstrating that problematic legislation is not applied in practice to your transferred data and importer, 
also taking into account the experience of other actors operating within the same sector and/or related to similar 
transferred personal data, does not exempt you from providing for the necessary supplementary measures to 
protect personal data during its transmission and processing in the third country of destination (e.g. end-to-end 
encryption  of  data  –  see  examples  of  technical  supplementary  measures  in  Annex  2-)  if  your  analysis  of  the 
applicable legislation of the third country of destination indicates that access to data may also take place, even 
in the absence of the importer’s intervention, at this moment of the transfer. You may have already foreseen 
such measures with the importer acting as controller or processor in accordance with Article 32 of the GDPR.   
56 See Annex 3 for a non-exhaustive list of sources of information that you and the importer may use. 

Adopted 

 

18 

 

Relevant:  the  information  must  be  relevant  to  the  specific  transfer  and/or  importer  and  their 
compliance with the requirements set in EU law and the Article 46 GDPR transfer instrument, and not 
overly general or abstract.  
 
Objective information: is information that is supported by empirical evidence based on knowledge 
gained from the past, not assumptions about potential events and risks. 
 
Reliable:  the  exporter  and  the  importer  must  objectively  assess  the  reliability  of  the  source  of 
information and of the information itself, and evaluate them separately.  
 
Verifiable:  information  and  conclusions  should  be  verifiable  or  contrastable  with  other  types  of 
information or sources, as part of an overall assessment, also to allow the competent supervisory or 
judicial authority to check the objectivity and reliability of this information if needed.  
 
Publicly available or otherwise accessible information: information should preferably be public or at 
least accessible to facilitate the verification of the criteria made above and ensure its possible sharing 
with supervisory authorities, judicial authorities and ultimately data subjects.  
 
47.  You  may  also  take  into  consideration  documented  practical  experience  of  the  importer  with 
relevant  prior  instances  of  requests  for  access  received  from  public  authorities  in  the  third 
country. You will only be able to use the experience of the importer as an additional source of 
information if the legal framework of the third country does not prohibit the importer to provide 
information on requests for disclosure from public authorities or on the absence of such requests 
(and you should also document such an assessment). You must however note that the absence of 
prior  instances  of  requests  received  by  the  importer  can  never  be  considered,  by  itself,  as  a 
decisive factor on the effectiveness of the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool that allows the transfer 
to  proceed  without  supplementary  measures.  You  will  be  able  to  consider  this  information, 
together  with  other types of  information obtained  from other  sources,  as  part of your overall 
assessment of the laws and practices of the third country in relation to your transfer. The relevant 
and  documented  experience  of  the  importer  should  be  corroborated  and  not  contradicted  by 
relevant, objective, reliable, verifiable and publicly available or otherwise accessible information 
on  the  practical  application  of  the  relevant  law  (e.g.  the  existence  or  absence  of  requests  for 
access  received  by  other  actors  operating  within  the  same  sector  and/or  related  to  similar 
transferred personal data57 and/or the application of the law in practice, such as case law and 
reports by independent oversight bodies). 

 

Results of your assessment 

48.  You should conduct this overall assessment of the law and practice of the third country of your 
importer  applicable  to  your  transfer  with  due  diligence  and  document  it  thoroughly.  Your 
competent supervisory and/or judicial authorities may request it and hold you accountable for 
any decision you take on that basis.58   

 

                                                           
57 The experience could be that of other entities you directly know because of previous transfers of the same 
kind you put in place, or which is reported in relevant case-law, reports of NGOs, etc. (see Annex 3). 
58 Article 5(2) GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

19 

 

49.  Your assessment may ultimately reveal that the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you rely on either: 

-  Effectively ensures that the transferred personal data is afforded a level of protection in the 
third country that is essentially equivalent to that guaranteed in the EEA. The third country’s 
legislation and practices applicable to the transfer allow the data importer to comply with its 
obligations under the chosen transfer tool. You should re-evaluate at appropriate intervals, or 
when significant changes come to light (see Step 6); or 

 
-  Does not effectively ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection. The data importer 
cannot comply with its obligations, owing to the third country’s legislation and/or practices 
applicable to the transfer not meeting EU standards on fundamental rights and freedoms and 
the necessity and proportionality of restrictions thereto to safeguard legitimate objectives of 
public interest. The CJEU underlined that where Article 46 GDPR transfer tools fall short, it is 
the responsibility of the data exporter to either put in place effective supplementary measures 
or to not transfer personal data.59 

 
Example:  
 
Background: 
The CJEU held that Section 702 of the U.S. FISA does not respect the minimum safeguards resulting 
from the principle of proportionality under EU law and cannot be regarded as limited to what is strictly 
necessary. This means that the level of protection of the programs authorised by Section 702 FISA is 
not essentially equivalent to the safeguards required under EU law.  
 
Assessment: 
If your assessment of the relevant U.S. legislation leads you to consider that your transfer might fall 
within  the  scope  of  Section  702  FISA,  but  you  are  unsure  if  it  falls  within  its  practical  scope  of 
application, you may decide either: 
 
1. To stop the transfer;  
2. To adopt appropriate supplementary measures that ensure effectively a level of protection of the 
data transferred essentially equivalent to that guaranteed in the EEA; or 
3. To look at other objective, reliable, relevant, verifiable and preferably publicly available information 
(which  may  include  information  provided  to  you  by  your  data  importer)  to  clarify  the  scope  of 
application in practice of Section 702 FISA to your particular transfer. This information should provide 
answers to some relevant questions, such as the following: 
 
- Does publicly available information show that there is a legal prohibition of informing about a specific 
request  for  access  to  data  received  and  wide  restrictions  on  providing  general  information  about 
requests for access to data received or the absence of requests received? 
 
- Has your data importer confirmed that it has received requests for access to data from U.S. public 
authorities  in  the  past?  Or  has  your  data  importer  confirmed  that  it  has  not  received  requests  for 
access  to  data  from  U.S.  public  authorities  in  the  past  and  that  it  is  not  prohibited  from  providing 
information about such requests or their absence? 
 

                                                           
59 CJEU C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 134 and 135. 

Adopted 

 

20 

 

- Does publicly available information you obtained on U.S. case law and reports from oversight bodies, 
civil society organisations, and academic institutions60 reveal data importers of the same sector as your 
importer have received requests for access to data for similar transferred data in the past? 
 
The answers to these questions that you obtain through your overall assessment lead you to conclude 
that: 
 
-  Section  702  FISA  applies  in  practice  to  your  particular  transfer  and  therefore,  impinges  on  the 
effectiveness  of  your  Article  46  GDPR  transfer tool. Consequently,  if you wish to  proceed  with the 
transfer, you must consider, where appropriate in collaboration with the importer, if you can adopt 
supplementary  measures  that  ensure  effectively  a  level  of  protection  of  the  transferred  data 
essentially  equivalent  to  that  guaranteed  in  the  EEA.  If  you  cannot  find  effective  supplementary 
measures, you must not transfer the personal data.  
 
Or 
 
- Section 702 FISA does not apply in practice to your particular transfer and therefore, does not impinge 
on the effectiveness of your Article 46 GDPR transfer tool. You may then proceed with the transfer 
without any supplementary measures. 
 
 

  Step 4: Adopt supplementary measures 

50.  If  your  assessment  under  Step  3  has  revealed  that  your  Article  46  GDPR  transfer  tool  is  not 
effective, then you will need to consider, where appropriate in collaboration with the importer, if 
supplementary measures exist, which, when added to the safeguards contained in transfer tools, 
could  ensure  that  the  data  transferred  is  afforded  in  the  third  country  a  level  of  protection 
essentially  equivalent  to  that  guaranteed  within  the  EU.61  “Supplementary  measures”  are  by 
definition supplementary to the safeguards the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool already provides and 
to any other applicable security requirements (e.g. technical security measures) established in the 
GDPR.62 

51.  You must identify on a case-by-case basis which supplementary measures could be effective for a 
set of transfers to a specific third country when using a specific Article 46 GDPR transfer tool. You 
do not need to repeat the assessment every time you conduct the same transfer of a specific type 
of  data  to  the  same  third  country.  Some  of  the  data  planned  for  transfer  may  require 
supplementary  measures  whereas  other  data  may  not  (considering  formal  and/or  practical 
application of the third country law). You will be able to build on your previous assessments and 
conclusions  under  Steps  1,  2  and  3  above  and  check  against  their  findings  the  potential 
effectiveness of the supplementary measures in guaranteeing the required level of protection.  

                                                           
60 e.g. Provisions of Section 702 FISA; Rules of Procedure of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), 
declassified FISC opinions and decisions, case law of U.S. courts; reports and hearing transcripts of the Privacy 
and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB); reports by the Office of the Inspector General - U.S. Department of 
Justice; reports by the NSA Director of Civil Liberties and Privacy Office; reports prepared by the Congressional 
Research Service; reports by the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation (ACLU). 
61 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 96. 
62 Recital 109 of the GDPR and C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 133. 

Adopted 

 

21 

 

52.  In principle, supplementary measures may have a contractual, technical or organisational nature. 
Combining diverse measures in a way that they support and build on each other may enhance the 
level of protection and may therefore contribute to reaching EU standards.  

53.  Contractual and organisational measures alone will generally not overcome access to personal 
data by public authorities of the third country based on problematic legislation and/or practices.63 
Indeed there will be situations where only appropriately implemented technical measures might 
impede or render ineffective access by public authorities in third countries to personal data, in 
particular for surveillance purposes.64 In such situations, contractual or organisational measures 
may complement technical measures and strengthen the overall level of protection of data (e.g. 
by introducing checks and eliminating automatisms for attempts from public authorities to access 
data in a manner not compliant with EU standards).  

54.  You may, in collaboration with the data importer where appropriate, look at the following (non-
exhaustive) list of factors to identify which supplementary measures would be most effective in 
protecting  the  data  transferred  from  public  authorities’  requests  for  access  to  data  based  on 
problematic legislation applied in practice: 

-  Format of the data to be transferred (i.e. in plain text/pseudonymised or encrypted); 
-  Nature of the data (e.g. a higher level of protection is afforded in the EEA to categories of data 

covered by articles 9 and 10 GDPR);65 

-  Length  and  complexity  of  data  processing  workflow,  number  of  actors  involved  in  the 
processing,  and  the  relationship  between  them  (e.g.  do  the  transfers  involve  multiple 
controllers or both controllers and processors, or involvement of processors which will transfer 
the  data  from  you to  your  data  importer  -considering  the  relevant  provisions  applicable  to 
them under the legislation of the third country of destination-);66 

-  Technique or parameters of practical application of the third country law concluded in Step 3; 
-  Possibility that the data may be subject to onward transfers, within the same third country or 

even to other third countries (e.g. involvement of sub-processors of the data importer67). 

 

 

                                                           
63 ‘Problematic legislation’ is understood as legislation that 1) imposes on the recipient of personal data from the 
European Union obligations and/or affect the data transferred in a manner that may impinge on the transfer 
tools’ contractual guarantee of an essentially equivalent level of protection and 2) does not respect the essence 
of the fundamental rights and freedoms recognised by the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights or exceeds what is 
necessary  and  proportionate  in  a  democratic  society  to  safeguard  one  of  the  important  objectives  as  also 
recognised in Union or EU Member States’ law, such as those listed in Article 23 (1) GDPR. 
64 Where such access goes beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society; see Articles 47 
and 52 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 23.1 GDPR, and EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the 
European  Essential  Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures,  10  November  2020,  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-
work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/edpb-recommendations-022020-european-essential_en. 
65 See footnote 42. 
66 The GDPR assigns distinct obligations to controllers and processors. Transfers can be controller-to-controller, 
between joint controllers, controller-to-processor, and, subject to the authorisation of the controller, processor-
to-controller or processor-to-processor. 
67 See footnote 26. 

Adopted 

 

22 

 

Examples of supplementary measures 

55.  Some examples of technical, contractual and organisational measures that could be considered, 
where not already included in the used Article 46 GDPR transfer tool, may be found in the non-
exhaustive lists described in the Annex 2.  

*** 

56.  If you have put in place effective supplementary measures, which combined with your chosen 
Article 46 GDPR transfer tool reach a level of protection that is now essentially equivalent to the 
level of protection guaranteed within the EEA: you may proceed with your transfers.  

57.  Where you are not able to find or implement effective supplementary measures that ensure that 
the transferred personal data enjoys an essentially equivalent level of protection,68 you must not 
start transferring personal data to the third country concerned on the basis of the Article 46 GDPR 
transfer  tool  you  are  relying  on.  If  you  are  already  conducting  transfers,  you  are  required  to 
suspend or end the transfer of personal data.69 Pursuant to the safeguards contained in the Article 
46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on, the data that you have already transferred to that third 
country and the copies thereof should be returned to you or destroyed in their entirety by the 
importer.70  

Example:  
 
The law of the third country prohibits the supplementary measures you have identified (e.g. prohibits 
the  use  of  encryption)  or  otherwise  prevents  their  effectiveness.  You  must  not  start  transferring 
personal data to this country, or you must stop ongoing existing transfers to this country.  
 
 

58.  The competent supervisory authority may impose any other corrective measure (e.g. a fine) if, 
despite the fact that you cannot demonstrate an essentially equivalent level of protection in the 
third country, you start or continue the transfer. 

 

  Step 5: Procedural steps if you have identified effective supplementary measures 

59.  The procedural steps you may have to take in case you have identified effective supplementary 
measures to be put in place may differ depending on the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are 
using or you envisage to use. 

2.5.1  Standard data protection clauses (“SCCs”) (Art. 46(2)(c) and (d) GDPR) 

60.  When you intend to put in place supplementary measures in addition to SCCs, there is no need 
for  you  to  request  an  authorisation  from  the  competent  SA  to  add  these  kind  of  clauses  or 

                                                           
68 Where such access goes beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society; see Articles 47 
and 52 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 23.1 GDPR, and EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the 
European  Essential  Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures,  10  November  2020,  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-
work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/edpb-recommendations-022020-european-essential_en . 
69 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 135. 
70 E.g. see Clause 12 in the annex to the SCC Decision 87/2010; see the (optional) Extra termination clause in 
Annex B SCC 2004/915/EC. 

Adopted 

 

23 

 

additional safeguards as long as the identified supplementary measures do not contradict, directly 
or indirectly, the SCCs and are sufficient to ensure that the level of protection guaranteed by the 
GDPR is not undermined.71 The data exporter and importer need to ensure that additional clauses 
cannot be construed in any way to restrict the rights and obligations in the SCCs or in any other 
way to lower the level of data protection. You should be able to demonstrate this, including the 
unambiguity of all clauses, according to the accountability principle and your obligation to provide 
for a sufficient level of data protection. The competent supervisory authorities have the power to 
review  these  supplementary  clauses where  required (e.g. in case  of complaint or own-volition 
inquiry). 

61.  Where  you  intend  to  modify  the  standard  data  protection  clauses  themselves  or  where  the 
supplementary  measures  added  ‘contradict’  directly  or  indirectly  the  SCCs,  you  are  no  longer 
deemed to be relying on standard contractual clauses72 and must seek an authorisation with the 
competent supervisory authority in accordance with Article 46(3)(a) GDPR.  

2.5.2  BCRs (Art. 46(2)(b) GDPR) 

62.  The reasoning put forward by the Schrems II judgment also applies to other transfer instruments 
pursuant to Article 46(2) GDPR since all of these instruments are basically of contractual nature, 
so the guarantees foreseen and the commitments taken by the parties therein cannot bind third 
country public authorities.73 

63.  The Schrems II judgement is relevant for transfers of personal data on the basis of BCRs, since 

third countries laws may affect the protection provided by such instruments.  

64.  All  commitments  that  need  to  be  included  will  be  referred  to  in  the  updated  WP256/257 
referentials74 to which all groups relying on BCRs as transfer tools will have to align their existing 
and future BCRs.  

65.  The Court highlighted that it is the responsibility of the data exporter and the data importer to 
assess  whether  the  level  of  protection  required  by  EU  law  is  respected  in  the  third  country 
concerned  in  order  to  determine  if  the  guarantees  provided  by  the  SCCs  or  the  BCRs  can  be 

                                                           
71 Recital 109 of the GDPR states: “The possibility for the controller or processor to use standard data-protection 
clauses  adopted  by  the  Commission  or  by  a  supervisory  authority  should  prevent  controllers  or  processors 
neither from including the standard data-protection clauses in a wider contract, such as a contract between the 
processor and another processor, nor from adding other clauses or additional safeguards provided that they do 
not  contradict,  directly  or  indirectly,  the  standard  contractual  clauses  adopted  by  the  Commission  or  by  a 
supervisory authority or prejudice the fundamental rights or freedoms of the data subjects.” Similar provisions 
are provided in sets of SCCs adopted by the European Commission under Directive 95/45/EC. 
72  See  by  analogy,  the  EDPB  Opinion  17/2020  on  the  draft  Standard  Contractual  Clauses  submitted  by  the 
Slovenian SA (Article 28(8) GDPR) on Art. 28 SCC already adopted which contains a similar provision (“In addition, 
the Board recalls that the possibility to use Standard Contractual Clauses adopted by a supervisory authority does 
not prevent the parties from adding other clauses or additional safeguards provided that they do not contradict, 
directly or indirectly, the adopted standard contractual clauses or prejudice the fundamental rights or freedoms 
of the data subjects. Furthermore, where the standard data protection clauses are modified, the parties will no 
longer 
clauses”),  
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_opinion_202017_art28sccs_si_en.pdf . 
73 CJEU, C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 132. 
74 Article 29 Working Party, Working Document setting up a table with the elements and principles to be found 
in Binding Corporate Rules, as last revised and adopted on 6 February 2018, WP 256 rev.01; Article 29 Working 
Party, Working Document setting up a table with the elements and principles to be found in Binding Corporate 
Rules, as last revised and adopted on 6 February 2018, WP 257 rev.01. 

implemented 

contractual 

standard 

adopted 

deemed 

have 

be 

to 

Adopted 

 

24 

 

complied  with  in  practice.  If  this  is  not  the  case,  you  should  assess  whether  you  can  provide 
supplementary measures to ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the 
EEA,  and  if  the  law  or  practice  of  the  third  country  will  not  impinge  on  these  supplementary 
measures so as to prevent their effectiveness. 

2.5.3  Ad hoc contractual clauses (Art. 46.3(a) GDPR) 

66.  The reasoning put forward by the Schrems II judgment also applies to other transfer instruments 
pursuant to Article 46 (2) GDPR since all of these instruments are basically of contractual nature, 
so the guarantees foreseen and the commitments taken by the parties therein cannot bind third 
country  public  authorities.75  The  Schrems  II  judgement  is  therefore  relevant  for  transfers  of 
personal data on the basis of ad hoc contractual clauses, since third countries laws may affect the 
protection provided by such instruments.  

 

  Step 6: Re-evaluate at appropriate intervals 

67.  You  must  monitor,  on  an  ongoing  basis,  and  where  appropriate  in  collaboration  with  data 
importers, developments in the third country to which you have transferred personal data that 
could affect  your initial assessment of the  level of protection  and the decisions you may have 
taken accordingly on your transfers. Accountability is a continuing obligation (Article 5(2) GDPR). 

68.  You should put sufficiently sound mechanisms in place to ensure that you promptly suspend or 

end transfers where: 

- 

- 

the importer has breached or is unable to honour the commitments it has taken in the Article 
46 GDPR transfer tool; or 
the supplementary measures are no longer effective in that third country. 

3  CONCLUSION 

69.  The GDPR lays down rules on processing personal data in the EEA and in doing so allows for free 
movement of personal data within the EEA. Chapter V of the GDPR governs transfers of personal 
data to third countries and sets a high bar: the transfer must not undermine the level of protection 
of natural persons guaranteed by  the GDPR (Article 44 GDPR).  The CJEU C-311/18 (Schrems II) 
judgement  underscores  the  need  to  ensure  the  continuity  of  the  level  of  protection  afforded 
under the GDPR to personal data transferred to a third country.76 

70.  To ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection of your data, you must first and foremost 
know  thoroughly  your  transfers.  You  must  also  check  that  the  data  you  transfer  is  adequate, 
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which it is processed. 

71.  You must also identify the transfer tool you are relying on for your transfers. If the transfer tool is 
not an adequacy decision, you must verify on a case-by-case basis whether (or not) the law or 
practice of the third country of destination undermines the safeguards contained in the Article 46 
GDPR transfer tool in the context of your transfers. Where the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool alone 

                                                           
75 CJEU, C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 132. 
76 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 93. 

Adopted 

 

25 

 

fails  to  achieve  for  the  personal  data  you  transfer  a  level  of  protection  essentially  equivalent, 
supplementary measures may fill the gap.  

72.  Where you are not able to find or implement effective supplementary measures that ensure that 
the transferred personal data enjoys an essentially equivalent level of protection, you must not 
start  transferring  personal  data  to  the  third  country  concerned  on  the  basis  of  your  chosen 
transfer tool. If you are already conducting transfers, you are required to promptly suspend or 
end the transfer of personal data.  

73.  The competent supervisory authority has the power to suspend or end transfers of personal data 
to the third country if the protection of the data transferred that EU law requires, in particular 
Articles 45 and 46 GDPR and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, is not ensured. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 
 
The Chair 
 
(Andrea Jelinek) 
 

 

Adopted 

 

26 

 

ANNEX 1: DEFINITIONS 

•  “Third country” means any country that is not a Member State of the EEA. 
•  “EEA” means the European Economic Area and it includes the Member States of the European 
Union and Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein. The GDPR applies to the latter by virtue of the EEA 
Agreement, in particular its Annex XI and Protocol 37. 

•  “GDPR” refers to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data 
and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Directive  95/46/EC  (General  Data 
Protection Regulation). 

•  “The  Charter”  refers  to  the  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights  of  the  European  Union,  OJ  C  326, 

26.10.2012, p. 391–407. 

•  “CJEU” or “the Court” refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union. It constitutes the judicial 
authority of the European Union and, in cooperation with the courts and tribunals of the Member 
States, it ensures the uniform application and interpretation of EU law. 

•  “Data exporter” means the controller or processor within the EEA who transfers personal data to 

a controller or processor in a third country. 

•  “Data importer” means the controller or processor in a third country who receives or gets access 

to personal data transferred from the EEA.  

•  “Article 46 GDPR transfer tool”: refers to the appropriate safeguards under Article 46 GDPR that 
data exporters shall put in place when transferring personal data to a third country, in the absence 
of an adequacy decision pursuant to Article 45(3) GDPR. Article 46(2) and (3) of the GDPR contains 
the list of Article 46 GDPR transfer tools that controllers and processors may use.  

•  “SCCs” means standard data protection clauses (or “standard contractual clauses”) adopted by 
the European Commission for personal data transfers between controllers or processors in the 
EEA and controllers or processors outside the EEA. Standard contractual clauses adopted by the 
European Commission are a transfer tool under the GDPR, as per Article 46(2)(c) and (5) GDPR. 
 

 

Adopted 

 

27 

 

ANNEX 2: EXAMPLES OF SUPPLEMENTARY MEASURES 

74.  The following measures are examples of supplementary measures you could consider when you 
reach Step 4 “Adopt supplementary measures”. This list is not exhaustive. You may explore other 
supplementary measures. Future technological, legal or organisational developments may lead to 
the emergence of new supplementary measures for you to consider. Selecting and implementing 
one or several of these measures will not necessarily and systematically ensure that your transfer 
meets  the  essential  equivalence  standard  that  EU  law  requires.  You  should  select  those 
supplementary measures that can effectively guarantee this level of protection for your transfers. 

75.  Any supplementary measure may only be deemed effective in the meaning of the CJEU judgment 
“Schrems II” if and to the extent that it - by itself or in combination with others - addresses the 
specific deficiencies identified in your assessment of the situation in the third country as regards 
its laws and practices applicable to your transfer. If, ultimately, you cannot ensure an essentially 
equivalent level of protection, you must not transfer the personal data. 

76.  As a controller or processor, you may already be required to implement some of the measures 
described  in this  annex  in order  to  be  compliant  with  the  GDPR. This means  similar measures 
might  need  to  be  put  in  place  for  personal  data  processed  in  the  EEA,  transferred  to  a  data 
importer covered by an adequacy decision, or to other third countries.77 

 

2.1 Technical measures 

77.  This section describes in a non-exhaustive manner examples of technical measures, which may 
supplement safeguards found in Article 46 GDPR transfer tools to ensure compliance  with the 
level of protection required under EU law in the context of a transfer of personal data to a third 
country. These measures will be especially needed where the law of that country imposes on the 
data importer obligations which are contrary to the safeguards of Article 46 GDPR transfer tools 
and  are,  in  particular,  capable  of  impinging  on  the  contractual  guarantee  of  an  essentially 
equivalent level of protection against access by the public authorities of that third country to that 
data.78  

78.  For  further  clarity,  this  section  describes  first  some  examples  of  scenarios  for  which  some 
technical  measures  could  potentially  be  effective  to  ensure  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of 
protection. The section continues with some scenarios for which the technical measures to ensure 
this level of protection are not identified. 

 

 

                                                           
77 Article 5.2 GDPR, Article 32 GDPR.   
78 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 135. 

Adopted 

 

28 

 

Examples of scenarios referring to cases in which effective measures are identified 

79.  The measures listed below are intended to ensure that access to the transferred data by public 
authorities in third countries does not impinge on the effectiveness of the appropriate safeguards 
contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tools. These measures would be necessary to guarantee 
an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection  to  that  guaranteed  in  the  EEA,  even  if  the  public 
authorities’ access complies with the law of the importer’s country, where, in practice, such access 
goes beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society.79 These measures aim 
to preclude potentially infringing access by preventing the authorities from identifying the data 
subjects, inferring information about them, singling them out in another context, or associating 
the transferred data with other datasets that may contain, among other data, online identifiers 
provided by the devices, applications, tools and protocols used by data subjects in other contexts.  

80.  Public authorities in third countries may endeavour to access transferred data 

a)  In transit by accessing the lines of communication used to convey the data to the recipient 
country.  This  access  may  be  passive  in  which  case  the  contents  of  the  communication, 
possibly after a selection process, are simply copied. The access may, however, also be active 
in the sense that the public authorities interpose themselves into the communication process 
by not only reading the content, but also manipulating or suppressing parts of it. 

 

b)  While  in  custody  by  an  intended  recipient  of  the  data  by  either  accessing  the  processing 
facilities themselves, or by requiring a recipient of the  data to locate, and extract  data of 
interest and turn it over to the authorities. 

81.  This  section  considers  scenarios  where  measures  are  applied  that  are  effective  in  both  cases. 
Different  supplementary measures  may  apply  and be  sufficient  in the  given  circumstance  of  a 
concrete transfer if only one type of access is foreseen by the law of the recipient country. It is 
therefore  necessary  for  the  data  exporter  to  carefully  analyse,  with  the  support  of  the  data 
importer, the obligations laid upon the latter.  

 

As  an  example,  U.S.  data  importers  that  fall  under  50  USC  §  1881a  (FISA  702)  are  under  a  direct 
obligation to grant access to or turn over imported personal data that are in their possession, custody 
or control. This may extend to any cryptographic keys necessary to render the data intelligible.  

 

82.  The scenarios describe specific circumstances, and measures taken to serve as an example. Any 
changes to the scenarios may give rise to different conclusions. The scenarios refer to situations 
where  it  has  been  concluded  that  supplementary  measures  are  needed  in  the  first  place,  i.e. 
where in practice problematic legislation of the third country is applied to the transfer in question. 

83.  Controllers may have to apply some or all of the measures described here irrespective of the level 
of protection provided for by the laws applicable to the data importer because they are needed 
to comply with Articles 25 and 32 GDPR in the concrete circumstances of the transfer. In other 

                                                           
79  See  Articles  47  and  52  of  the  EU  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights,  Article  23.1  GDPR,  and  EDPB 
Recommendations  02/2020  on  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures,  10  November 
2020. 

Adopted 

 

29 

 

words, exporters may be required to implement the measures described in this paper even if their 
data importers are covered by an adequacy decision, just as controllers and processors may be 
required to implement them when data is processed within the EEA. 

Use Case 1: Data storage for backup and other purposes that do not require access to data in 

the clear 

84.  A data exporter uses a hosting service provider in a third country to store personal data, e.g. for 

backup purposes.  

If  

1.  the personal data is processed using strong encryption before transmission, and the identity 

of the importer is verified, 

2.  the  encryption  algorithm  and  its  parameterization  (e.g.,  key  length,  operating  mode,  if 
applicable) conform to the state-of-the-art and can be considered robust against cryptanalysis 
performed by the public authorities in the recipient country taking into account the resources 
and technical capabilities (e.g., computing power for brute-force attacks) available to them,80 
3.  the strength of the encryption and key length takes into account the specific time period during 

which the confidentiality of the encrypted personal data must be preserved,81 

4.  the  encryption  algorithm  is  implemented  correctly  and  by  properly  maintained  software 
without known vulnerabilities the conformity of which to the specification of the algorithm 
chosen has been verified, e.g., by certification,  

5.  the  keys  are  reliably  managed  (generated,  administered,  stored,  if  relevant,  linked  to  the 

identity of an intended recipient, and revoked),82 and 

6.  the keys are retained solely under the control of the data exporter, or by an entity trusted by 
the  exporter  in  the  EEA  or  under  a  jurisdiction  offering  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of 
protection to that guaranteed within the EEA,  

then the EDPB considers that the encryption performed provides an effective supplementary measure. 

 

                                                           
80 For the assessment of the strength of encryption algorithms, their conformity with the state-of-the-art, and 
their  robustness  against  cryptanalysis  over  time,  data  exporters  can  rely  on  technical  guidance  published  by 
official cybersecurity authorities of the EU and its member states. See e.g. ENISA Report « What is "state of the 
art" 
in  IT  security? »,  2019,  https://www.enisa.europa.eu/news/enisa-news/what-is-state-of-the-art-in-it-
security; guidance given by the German Federal Office for Information Security in its Technical Guidelines of the 
TR-02102 series and ”Algorithms, Key Size and Protocols Report (2018), H2020-ICT-2014 – Project 645421, D5.4, 
ECRYPT-CSA, 02/2018” at https://www.ecrypt.eu.org/csa/documents/D5.4-FinalAlgKeySizeProt.pdf. 
81 The protective capacity of cryptographic algorithms is subject to decline over time due to the discovery of new 
cryptanalytic techniques, the emergence of new computing paradigms like quantum computing, and the general 
increase of available computing power, unless the applied algorithms are proven to be information theoretically 
secure. This concern applies in particular to public key algorithms that are at the time of writing in common use. 
In consequence, the data exporter has to consider that public authorities may undertake to access encrypted 
data  in  the  circumstances  described  in  paragraph  No.  80,  and  store  it  until  their  resources  are  sufficient  for 
decryption. The  supplementary measure can only be considered effective if  such decryption and subsequent 
further processing at that time would no longer constitute an infringement of the rights of data subjects, e.g., 
because the data can no longer be used to directly or indirectly identify them. 
82 
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-57-part-1/rev-5/final  

Recommendation 

Management 

Publication 

800-57, 

Special 

NIST 

Key 

for 

Adopted 

 

30 

 

Use Case 2: Transfer of pseudonymised Data 

85.  A  data  exporter  first  pseudonymises  data  it  holds,  and  then  transfers  it  to  a  third  country  for 

analysis, e.g., for purposes of research. 

If  

1.  a data exporter transfers personal data processed in such a manner that the personal data can 
no longer be attributed to a specific data subject, nor be used to single out the data subject in 
a larger group without the use of additional information,83 

2.  that additional information is held exclusively by the data exporter and kept separately in a 
Member State or in a third country, by an entity trusted by the exporter in the EEA or under a 
jurisdiction offering an essentially equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed within the 
EEA,  

3.  disclosure  or  unauthorised  use  of  that  additional  information  is  prevented  by  appropriate 
technical  and  organisational  safeguards,  it  is  ensured  that  the  data  exporter  retains  sole 
control  of  the  algorithm  or  repository  that  enables  re-identification  using  the  additional 
information, and 

4.  the controller has established by means of a thorough analysis of the data in question - taking 
into  account  any  information  that  the  public  authorities  of  the  recipient  country  may  be 
expected to possess and use - that the pseudonymised personal data cannot be attributed to 
an identified or identifiable natural person even if cross-referenced with such information, 

then the EDPB considers that the pseudonymisation performed provides an effective supplementary 

measure. 

86.  Note  that  in  many  situations,  factors  specific  to  the  physical,  physiological,  genetic,  mental, 
economic, cultural or social identity of a natural person, their physical location or their interaction 
with  an  internet  based  service  at  specific  points  in  time84  may  allow  the  identification  of  that 
person even if their name, address or other plain identifiers are omitted.  

87.  This is particularly true whenever the data concern the use of information services (time of access, 
sequence of features accessed, characteristics of the device used etc.). These services might well 
be, as for the importer of personal data, under the obligation to grant access to the same public 
authorities  in  their  jurisdiction,  which  will  then  likely  possess  data  about  the  use  of  those 
information services by the person(s) they target. 

88.  Moreover, given the use of some information services is public by nature, or their exploitability 
by  parties  with  substantial  resources,  controllers  will  have  to  take  extra  care  considering  that 

                                                           
83 In line with Article 4(5) GDPR: “‘pseudonymisation’ means the processing of personal data in such a manner 
that  the  personal  data  can  no  longer  be  attributed  to  a  specific  data  subject  without  the  use  of  additional 
information,  provided  that  such  additional  information  is  kept  separately  and  is  subject  to  technical  and 
organisational  measures  to  ensure  that  the  personal  data  are  not  attributed  to  an  identified  or  identifiable 
natural person;” Additional data may consist of tables juxtaposing pseudonyms with the identifying attributes 
they  replace,  cryptographic  keys  or  other  parameters  for  the  transformation  of  attributes,  or  other  data 
permitting the attribution of the pseudonymised data to identified or identifiable natural persons. 
84 Art. 4(1) GDPR: “’ personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person 
(‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by 
reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one 
or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of 
that natural person;”. 

Adopted 

 

31 

 

public authorities in their jurisdiction likely possess data about the use of information services by 
a person they target.  

89.  If, in the course of performing pseudonymisation, attributes contained in the personal data are 
transformed using a cryptographic algorithm, then the guidance in footnotes 80 and 81 applies. 
Henceforth  it  is  recommended  to  forego  the  exclusive  use  of  cryptography,  and  apply 
transformations based on table look-up mechanisms. 

Use Case 3: Encryption of data to protect it from access by the public authorities of the third 
country of the importer when it transits between the exporter and its importer  

90.  A data exporter wishes to transfer data to a destination where the law and/or practices allow for 
access by public authorities to data while it is transiting between the country of the exporter and 
the country of destination. 

If 

1.  a  data  exporter  transfers  personal  data  to  a  data  importer  in  a  jurisdiction  where  the  law 
and/or practice allow the public authorities to access data while they are being transported 
via the internet to this third country without the European essential guarantees concerning 
these access, transport encryption is used for which it is ensured that the encryption protocols 
employed  are  state-of-the-art  and  provide  effective  protection  against  active  and  passive 
attacks with resources known to be available to the public authorities of this third country, 

2.  the  parties  involved  in  the  communication  agree  on  a  trustworthy  public-key  certification 

authority or infrastructure,  

3.  specific protective and state-of-the-art measures are used against active and passive attacks 
on  the  sending  and  receiving  systems  providing  transport  encryption,  including  tests  for 
software vulnerabilities and possible backdoors, 

4.  in  case  the  transport  encryption  does  not  provide  appropriate  security  by  itself  due  to 
experience with vulnerabilities of the infrastructure or the software used, personal data is also 
encrypted end-to-end on the application layer using state-of-the-art encryption methods, 

5.  the  encryption  algorithm  and  its  parameterization  (e.g.,  key  length,  operating  mode,  if 
applicable) conform to the state-of-the-art and can be considered robust against cryptanalysis 
performed by the public authorities when data is transiting to this third country taking into 
account  the  resources  and  technical  capabilities  (e.g.,  computing  power  for  brute-force 
attacks) available to them (see footnote 80 above),85  

6.  the strength of the encryption takes into account the specific time period during which the 

confidentiality of the encrypted personal data must be preserved, 

7.  the  encryption  algorithm  is  implemented  correctly  and  by  properly  maintained  software 
without known vulnerabilities the conformity of which to the specification of the algorithm 
chosen has been verified, e.g., by certification,  

8.  the  keys  are  reliably  managed  (generated,  administered,  stored,  if  relevant,  linked  to  the 
identity of the intended recipient, and revoked), by the exporter or by an entity trusted by the 
exporter under a jurisdiction offering an essentially equivalent level of protection, 

                                                           
85 See footnote 80 for some references to technical guidance published by official cybersecurity authorities of 
the EU and its Member States. 

Adopted 

 

32 

 

then the EDPB considers that transport encryption, if needed in combination with end-to-end content 
encryption, provides an effective supplementary measure. 

Use Case 4: Protected recipient 

91.  A  data  exporter  transfers  personal  data  to  a  data  importer  in  a  third  country  specifically 
protected by that country’s law, e.g., for the purpose to jointly provide medical treatment for a 
patient, or legal services to a client.  

If 

1.  the law of a third country exempts a resident data importer from potentially infringing access 
to data held by that recipient for the given purpose, e.g. by virtue of a duty to professional 
secrecy applying to the data importer, 

2.  that exemption extends to all information in the possession of the data importer that may be 
used to circumvent the protection of privileged information (cryptographic keys, passwords, 
other credentials, etc.), 

3.  the data importer does not employ the services of a processor in a way that allows the public 
authorities to access the data while held by the processor, nor does the data importer forward 
the data to another entity that is not protected, on the basis of Article 46 GDPR transfer tools, 
4.  the personal data is encrypted before it is transmitted with a method conforming to the state 
of  the  art  guaranteeing  that  decryption  will  not  be  possible  without  knowledge  of  the 
decryption  key  (end-to-end  encryption)  for  the  whole  length  of  time  the  data  needs  to  be 
protected, 

5.  the decryption key is in the sole custody of the protected data importer, and, possibly, the 
exporter  itself  or  another  entity  trusted  by  the  exporter  that  is  located  in  the  EEA  or  a 
jurisdiction offering an essentially equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed within the 
EEA,  and  appropriately  secured  against  unauthorised  use  or  disclosure  by  technical  and 
organisational measures conforming to the state of the art, and 

6.  the data exporter has reliably established that the encryption key it intends to use corresponds 

to the decryption key held by the recipient, 

then the EDPB considers that the transport encryption performed provides an effective supplementary 
measure. 

Use Case 5: Split or multi-party processing 

The data exporter wishes personal data to be processed jointly by two or more independent 
processors located in different jurisdictions without disclosing the content of the data to them. 
Prior to transmission, it splits the data in such a way that no part an individual processor receives 
suffices  to  reconstruct  the  personal  data  in whole or  in  part. The  data exporter  receives  the 
result  of  the  processing  from  each  of  the  processors  independently,  and  merges  the  pieces 
received to arrive at the final result which may constitute personal or aggregated data. 

92. 

If 

1.  a data exporter processes personal data in such a manner that it is split into two or more parts 
each of which can no longer be interpreted or attributed to a specific data subject without the 
use of additional information, 

2.  each of the pieces is transferred to a separate processor located in a different jurisdiction, 

Adopted 

 

33 

 

3.  the processors optionally process the data jointly, e.g. using secure multi-party computation, 
in a way that no information is revealed to any of them that they do not possess prior to the 
computation, 

4.  the algorithm used for the shared computation is secure against active adversaries, 
5.  the controller has established by means of a thorough analysis of the data in question, taking 
into  account  the  missing  pieces  of  information  that  the  public  authorities  of  the  recipient 
countries may be expected to possess and use, that the pieces of personal data it transmits to 
the processors cannot be attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person even if cross-
referenced with such information, 

6.  there is no evidence of collaboration between the public authorities located in the respective 
jurisdictions where each of the processors are located, which would allow them access to all 
sets of personal data held by the processors and enable them to reconstitute and exploit the 
content of the personal data in a clear form in circumstances where such exploitation would 
not respect the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subjects. Similarly, 
public authorities of either country should not have the authority to access personal data held 
by processors in all jurisdictions concerned. 

then  the  EDPB  considers  that  the  split  processing  performed  provides  an  effective  supplementary 
measure. 

Examples of scenarios referring to cases in which effective measures are not identified 

93. 

The measures described below under certain scenarios would not be effective in ensuring an 
essentially equivalent level of protection for the data transferred to the third country. Therefore, 
they would not qualify as adequate supplementary measures.  

Use Case 6: Transfer to cloud services providers or other processors which require access to 

data in the clear 

94.  A  data  exporter  transfers  personal  data,  whether  by  electronic  transmission  or  by  making  it 
available  to  a  cloud  service  provider  or  other  processor  to  have  personal  data  processed 
according to its instructions in a third country (e.g., for the provision of technical support or any 
type of cloud processing), and this data is not - or cannot- be pseudonymised as described in 
Use Case 2 or encrypted as described in Use Case 1 because the processing requires accessing 
data in the clear.  

If  

1.  a controller transfers personal data to a cloud service provider or other processor, 
2.  the cloud service provider or other processor needs access to the data in the clear in order to 

execute the task assigned, and 

3.  the power granted to public authorities of the recipient country to access the transferred data 
in question goes beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society, where 

Adopted 

 

34 

 

in practice problematic legislation of the third country applies to the transfers in question (see 
Step 3).86 

then  the  EDPB  is,  considering  the  current  state  of  the  art,  incapable  of  envisioning  an  effective 
technical measure to prevent that access from infringing on the data subject’s fundamental rights. The 
EDPB does not rule out that further technological development may offer measures that achieve the 
intended business purposes, without requiring access in the clear. 

95. 

In  the  given  scenarios,  where  unencrypted  personal  data  is  technically  necessary  for  the 
provision of the service by the processor, transport encryption and data-at-rest encryption even 
taken  together,  do  not  constitute  a  supplementary  measure  that  ensures  an  essentially 
equivalent level of protection if the data importer is in possession of the cryptographic keys. 

Use Case 7: Transfer of personal data for business purposes including by way of remote 

access 

96.  A data exporter  transfers personal data to entities  - in a third country to be used for shared 
business  purposes  —whether  by  electronic transmission  or  by  making  it  available  to  remote 
access by the data importer—, and this data is not - or cannot- be -pseudonymised as described 
in Use Case 2 or encrypted as described in Use Case 1 because the processing requires accessing 
data in the clear. One typical constellation may consist of a controller or processor established 
on the territory of a Member State transferring personal data to a controller or processor in a 
third country belonging to the same group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in 
a joint economic activity. The data importer may, for example, use the data it receives to provide 
personnel  services  for  the  data  exporter  for  which  it  needs  human  resources  data,  or  to 
communicate with customers of the data exporter who live in the European Union by phone or 
email.  

If 

1.  a  data  exporter  transfers  personal  data  to  a  data  importer  in  a  third  country  by  making  it 
available in an information system in a way that allows the importer direct access to data of 
its  own  choice,  or  by  transferring  it  directly,  individually  or  in  bulk,  through  use  of  a 
communication service, 

2.  the  importer87  processes  the  data  in  the  clear  in  the  third  country  (including  for  its  own 

purposes where the importer is a controller), 

3.  the power granted to public authorities of the recipient country to access the transferred data 
goes beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society, where in practice 
problematic legislation of the third country applies to the transfers in question (see Step 3), 

then the EDPB is incapable of envisioning an effective technical measure to prevent that access from 
infringing on the data subject’s fundamental rights.  
 
97. 

In  the  given  scenarios,  where  unencrypted  personal  data  is  technically  necessary  for  the 
provision of the service by the processor, transport encryption and data-at-rest encryption even 

                                                           
86  See  Articles  47  and  52  of  the  EU  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights,  Article  23.1  GDPR,  and  EDPB 
Recommendations  02/2020  on  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  for  Surveillance  Measures,  10  November 
2020. 
87 Whether it is a controller or processor in a third country receiving or getting access to personal data transferred 
from the EEA. 

Adopted 

 

35 

 

 

taken  together,  do  not  constitute  a  supplementary  measure  that  ensures  an  essentially 
equivalent level of protection if the data importer is in possession of the cryptographic keys. 

2.2 Additional contractual measures 

98. These  measures  will  generally  consist  of  unilateral,  bilateral  or  multilateral88  contractual 
commitments.89 If an Article 46 GDPR transfer tool is used, it will in most cases already contain a 
number of (mostly contractual) commitments by the data exporter and the data importer aimed 
at serving as safeguards for the personal data.90  

99. In some situations, these measures may complement and reinforce the safeguards the transfer 
tool  and  relevant  legislation  of  the  third  country  may  provide,  when,  taking  into  account  the 
circumstances of the transfer, these do not meet all the conditions required to ensure a level of 
protection  essentially  equivalent  to  that  guaranteed  within  the  EEA.  Provided  the  nature  of 
contractual measures, generally not capable of binding the authorities of that third country when 
they are not party to the contract,91 these measures may often need to be combined with other 
technical and organisational measures to provide the level of data protection required. Selecting 
and implementing one or several of these measures will not necessarily and systematically ensure 
that your transfer meets the essential equivalence standard that EU law requires. 

100. Depending on what contractual measures are already included in the  Article 46 GDPR transfer 
tool that is relied on, additional contractual measures may also be helpful to allow EEA-based data 
exporters to become aware of new developments affecting the protection of the data transferred 
to third countries.  

101. As said, contractual measures will not be able to rule out the application of the legislation of a 
third country which does not meet the EDPB European Essential Guarantees standard in those 
cases in which the legislation obliges importers to comply with the orders to disclose data they 
receive from public authorities.92  

102. Some  examples  of  these  potential  contractual  measures  are  listed  below  and  classified  in 

accordance with their nature. 

Providing for the contractual obligation to use specific technical measures 

103. Depending on the specific circumstances of the transfers (including the practical application of 
the third country legislation), the contract may need to provide that for transfers to take place, 

                                                           
88 E.g. within BCRs which should in any case regulate some of the measures listed below. 
89 They will have a private nature and not be considered as international agreements under public international 
law. Accordingly, they will normally fail to bind the third country’s public authority as non-parties to the contract 
when  concluded  with  private  bodies  in  third  countries,  as  the  Court  underlined  in  its  judgment  C-311/18 
(Schrems II), paragraph 125. 
90 See judgment C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 137 where the Court as a result recognised that the SCC contain 
“effective  mechanisms  that  make  it  possible,  in  practice,  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  level  of  protection 
required by EU law and that transfers of personal data pursuant to the clauses of such a decision are suspended 
or  prohibited  in  the  event  of  the  breach  of  such  clauses  or  it  being  impossible  to  honour  them”;  see  also 
paragraph 148. 
91 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 125. 
92 CJEU judgment C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 132. 

Adopted 

 

36 

 

specific  technical measures would have  to be  implemented  (see  supra the technical measures 
suggested). 

104. Conditions for effectiveness:  

-  This clause could be effective in those situations where the need for technical measures has 
been identified by the exporter. It would then have to be provided in a legal form to ensure 
that the importer also commits to put in place the necessary technical measures if need be. 

Transparency obligations:  

105. The exporter could add annexes to the contract with information that the importer would have 
provided before the conclusion of the contract, based on its best efforts, on the access to data by 
public authorities, including in the field of intelligence, provided the legislation complies with the 
EDPB  European  Essential  Guarantees,  in  the  destination  country.  This  might  help  the  data 
exporter to meet its obligation to document its assessment of the level of protection in the third 
country.  It  may  also  underscore  the  obligation  of  the  importer  to  assist  the  exporter  in  its 
assessment  and  engage  its  liability  in  providing  it  with  information  that  is  objective,  reliable, 
relevant, verifiable and publicly available or otherwise accessible information. 

106. The importer could be for instance required to: 

(1)  enumerate the laws and regulations in the destination country applicable to the importer or 
its (sub) processors that would permit access by public authorities to the personal data that 
are  subject  to  the  transfer,  in  particular  in  the  areas  of  intelligence,  law  enforcement, 
administrative and regulatory supervision applicable to the transferred data;  

(2)  in the absence of laws governing the public authorities’ access to data, provide information 
and  statistics  based  on  the  importer’s  experience  or  reports  from  various  sources  (e.g. 
partners, open sources, national case law and decisions from oversight bodies) on access by 
public authorities to personal data in situations of the kind of the data transfer at hand (i.e. 
in  the  specific  regulatory  area;  regarding  the  type  of  entities  to  which  the  data  importer 
belongs, etc.); 

(3)  indicate which measures are taken to prevent the access to transferred data (if any);  

(4)  provide sufficiently detailed information on all requests of access to personal data by public 
authorities which the importer has received over a specified period of time,93 in particular in 
the  areas  mentioned  under  (1)  above  and  comprising  information  about  the  requests 
received, the data requested, the requesting body and the legal basis for disclosure and to 
what extent the importer has disclosed the data request;94 

(5)  specify  whether  and  to  what  extent  the  importer  is  legally  prohibited  to  provide  the 

information mentioned under (1) – (5) above. 

                                                           
93 The length of period should depend on the risk for the rights and freedoms of the data subjects whose data 
are subject to the transfer at stake – e.g. the last year before closure of the data export instrument with the data 
exporter. 
94 Complying with this duty does not as such amount to providing for an appropriate level of protection. At the 
same  time  any  inappropriate  disclosure  that  has  actually  happened  leads  to  the  necessity  of  implementing 
supplementary measures.  

Adopted 

 

37 

 

107. This information could be provided by way of structured questionnaires that the importer would 
fill in and sign and compounded by the importer’s contractual obligation to declare within a set 
period of time any potential change to this information, as is current practice for due diligence 
processes.  

108. Conditions for effectiveness:  

-  The importer must be able to provide the exporter with these types of information to the best 

of its knowledge and after having used its best efforts to obtain it.  

-  This obligation imposed on the importer is a means to ensure that the exporter becomes and 
remains aware of the risks attached to the transfer of data to a third country. It will thus enable 
the exporter to desist from concluding the contract, or if the information changes following its 
conclusion, to fulfil its obligation to suspend the transfer and/or terminate the contract if the 
law of the third country, the safeguards contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool used 
and any additional safeguards it may have adopted can no longer ensure a level of protection 
essentially  equivalent  to  that  in  the  EEA.  This  obligation  can  however  neither  justify  the 
importer’s disclosure of personal data nor give rise to the expectation that there will be no 
further access requests. 

*** 

109. The exporter could also add clauses whereby the importer certifies that (1) it has not purposefully 
created  back  doors  or  similar  programming  that  could  be  used  to  access  the  system  and/or 
personal data (2) it has not purposefully created or changed its business processes in a manner 
that facilitates access to personal data or systems, and (3) that national law or government policy 
does not require the importer to create or maintain back doors or to facilitate access to personal 
data or systems or for the importer to be in possession or to hand over the encryption key.95   

110. Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  The existence of legislation or government policies preventing importers from disclosing this 
information may render this clause ineffective. The importer will thus not be able to enter into 
the contract or will need to notify to the exporter of its inability to continue complying with its 
contractual commitments. 

-  The contract must include penalties and/or the exporter’s ability to terminate the contract on 
short notice in those cases in which the importer does not reveal the existence of a back door 
or similar programming or manipulated business processes or any requirement to implement 
any  of  these  or  fails  to  inform  promptly  the  exporter  once  their  existence  comes  to  its 
knowledge.  
In circumstances where the data importer disclosed personal data transferred in violation of 
the  commitments  contained  under  the  chosen  transfer  tool,  the  contract  may  also  include 
compensation  from  the  data  importer  to  a  data  subject  for  any  material  and  non-material 
damage suffered.  

- 

                                                           
95 This clause is important to guarantee an adequate level of protection of the personal data transferred and 
should usually be required.  

Adopted 

 

38 

 

*** 

111. The exporter could reinforce its power to conduct audits96 or inspections of the data processing 
facilities  of  the  importer,  on-site  and/or  remotely,  to  verify  if  data  was  disclosed  to  public 
authorities and under which conditions (access not beyond what is necessary and proportionate 
in a democratic society), for instance by providing for a short notice and mechanisms ensuring the 
rapid intervention of inspection bodies and reinforcing the autonomy of the exporter in selecting 
the inspection bodies.  

112. Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  The scope of the audit should legally and technically cover any processing by the importer’s 
processors or sub-processors of the personal data transmitted in the third country to be fully 
effective. 

-  Access  logs  and  other  similar  trails  should  be  tamper  proof  (e.g.  they  should  be  made 
inalterable  using  state  of  the  art  encryption  techniques,  such  as  hashing,  and  also 
systematically transmitted to the exporter on a periodic basis) so that the auditors can find 
evidence  of  disclosure.  Access  logs  and  other similar  trails  should  also  distinguish  between 
accesses due to regular business operations and accesses due to orders or requests for access.  

*** 

113. Where the law and practice of the third country of the importer was initially assessed and deemed 
to provide an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU for data transferred 
by the exporter, the exporter could still strengthen the obligation of the data importer to inform 
promptly, in case of a change of the situation, the data exporter of its inability to comply with the 
contractual commitments, and as a result with the required standard of “essentially equivalent 
level of data protection”.97.  

114. This inability to comply may result from changes in the third country’s legislation or practice.98 
The clauses could set specific and strict time limits and procedures for the swift suspension of the 
transfer of data and/or the termination of the contract and the importer’s return or deletion of 
the data received. Keeping track of the requests received, their scope, and the effectiveness of 
the measures adopted to counter them, should provide the exporter with sufficient indications to 
exercise its duty to suspend or end the transfer and/or terminate the contract.  

115. Conditions for effectiveness:  

-  The notification needs to take place before access is granted to the data. Otherwise, by the 
time the exporter receives the notification, the rights of the individual may have already been 
violated if the request is based on laws of that third country that exceed what the level of data 

                                                           
96 See for instance Clause 5.f of SCCs between controllers and processors Decision 2010/87/EU, the audits could 
also be provided within a code of conduct or through certification. 
97 Clause 5.a and d.i of SCCs Decision 2010/87/EU.  
98 See C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 139 in which  the Court  asserts that “although Clause 5(d)(i) allows  a 
recipient of personal data not to notify a controller established in the European Union of a legally binding request 
for disclosure of the personal data by a law enforcement authority, in the event of  legislation prohibiting that 
recipient  from  doing  so,  such  as  a  prohibition  under  criminal  law  the  aim  of  which  is  to  preserve  the 
confidentiality of a law enforcement investigation, the recipient is nevertheless required, pursuant to Clause 5(a) 
in the annex to the SCC Decision, to inform the controller of his or her inability to comply with the standard data 
protection clauses.” 

Adopted 

 

39 

 

protection afforded under EU law permits. The notification may still serve to prevent future 
violations and to allow the exporter to fulfil its duty to suspend the transfer of personal data 
to the third country and/or terminate the contract.   

-  The  data  importer  must  monitor  any  legal  or  policy  developments  that  might  lead  to  its 
inability  to  comply with  its  obligations,  and  promptly  inform  the  data  exporter of  any  such 
changes and developments, and if possible ahead of their implementation to enable the data 
exporter to recover the data from the data importer.  

-  The clauses should provide for a quick mechanism whereby the data exporter authorises the 
data  importer  to  promptly  secure  or  return  the  data  to  the  data  exporter,  or  if  this  is  not 
feasible,  delete  or  securely  encrypt  the  data  without  necessarily  waiting  for  the  exporter’s 
instructions,  if  a  specific  threshold99 to  be  agreed  between  the  data  exporter  and  the  data 
importer is met. The importer should implement this mechanism from the beginning of the 
data transfer and test it regularly to ensure that it can be applied on short notice.  

-  Other  clauses  could  enable  the  exporter  to  monitor  the  importer’s  compliance  with  these 
obligations via audits, inspections and other verification measures and to enforce them with 
penalties  on  the  importer  and/or  the  exporter’s  capacity  to  suspend  the  transfer  and/or 
terminate immediately the contract. 

*** 

116. Insofar  as  allowed  by  national  law  in  the  third  country,  the  contract  could  reinforce  the 
transparency obligations of the importer by providing for a “Warrant Canary” method, whereby 
the importer commits to regularly publish (e.g. at least every 24 hours) a cryptographically signed 
message informing the exporter that  as of a certain date and time it has received no order to 
disclose personal data or the like. The absence of an update of this notification will indicate to the 
exporter that the importer may have received an order. 

117. Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  The regulations of the third country must permit the data importer to issue this form of passive 

notification to the exporter.  

-  The data exporter must automatically monitor the warrant canary notifications.  
-  The data importer must ensure that its private key for signing the Warrant Canary is kept safe 
and that it cannot be forced to issue false Warrant Canaries by the regulations of the third 
country. To this end, it might be of use if several signatures by different persons are needed 
and/or the Warrant Canary is issued by a person outside the third country’s jurisdiction. 

Obligations to take specific actions 

118. The importer could commit to reviewing, under the law of the country of destination, the legality 
of  any  order  to  disclose  data,  notably  whether  it  remains  within  the  powers  granted  to  the 
requesting public authority, and to challenge the order if, after a careful assessment, it concludes 
that there are grounds under the law of the country of destination to do so. When challenging an 
order, the data importer should seek interim measures to suspend the effects of the order until 

                                                           
99 This threshold should ensure that data subjects continue to be afforded a level of protection equivalent to that 
guaranteed within the EEA.  

Adopted 

 

40 

 

the court has decided on the merits. The importer would have the obligation not to disclose the 
personal data requested until required to do so under the applicable procedural rules. The data 
importer would also commit to providing the minimum amount of information permissible when 
responding to the order, based on a reasonable interpretation of the order. 

119. Conditions for effectiveness:  

-  The legal order of the third country must offer effective legal avenues to challenge orders to 

disclose data. 

-  This clause will always offer a very limited additional protection as an order to disclose data 
may be lawful under the legal order of the third country, but this legal order may not meet EU 
standards.  This  contractual  measure  will  necessarily  need  to  be  complementary  to  other 
supplementary measures.  

-  The challenges to the orders must have a suspensive effect under the law of the third country. 
Otherwise, public authorities would still have access to the individuals’ data and any ensuing 
action in favor of the individual would have  the  limited effect of allowing him/her  to claim 
damages for negative consequences resulting from the data disclosure.  

-  The importer will need to be able to document and demonstrate to the exporter the actions it 

has taken, exercising its best efforts, to fulfil this commitment. 

*** 

120. In the same situation as described above, the importer could commit to inform the requesting 
public authority of the incompatibility of the order with the safeguards contained in the Article 46 
GDPR transfer tool100 and the resulting conflict of obligations for the importer. The importer would 
notify  simultaneously  and as  soon  as  possible  the  exporter  and/or the  competent  supervisory 
authority from the EEA, insofar as possible under the third country legal order.  

121. Conditions for effectiveness:  

-  Such information on the protection conferred by EU law and the conflict of obligations should 
have some legal effect in the legal order of the third country, such as a judicial or administrative 
review  of  the  order  or  request  for  access,  the  requirement  of  a  judicial  warrant,  and/or  a 
temporary suspension of the order to add some protection to the data. 

-  The legal system of the country must not prevent the importer from notifying the exporter or 
at least the competent supervisory authority from the EEA of the order or request for access 
received. 

-  The importer will need to be able to document and demonstrate to the exporter the actions it 

has taken, exercising its best efforts, to fulfil this commitment. 

                                                           
100 For instance, the SCCs provide that the processing of data, including the transfer thereof, has been and will 
continue to be carried out in accordance with “the applicable data protection law”. This law is defined as “the 
legislation protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and, in particular, their right to privacy 
with respect to the processing of personal data applicable to a data controller in the Member State in which the 
data exporter is established”. The CJEU confirms that the provisions of the GDPR, read in light of the EU Charter 
of Fundamental rights, form part of that legislation, see CJEU C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 138.  

Adopted 

 

41 

 

Empowering data subjects to exercise their rights 

122. The contract could provide that personal data transmitted in plain text in the normal course of 
business (including in support cases) may only be accessed with the express or implied agreement 
of the exporter and/or the data subject for a specific access to data. 

123. Conditions for effectiveness:  

-  This  clause  could  be  effective  in  those  situations  in  which  importers  receive  requests  from 
public authorities to cooperate on a voluntary basis, as opposed to e.g. data access by public 
authorities that occurs without the data importer’s knowledge or against its will. 
In some situations the data subject may not be in a position to oppose the access or to give a 
consent that meets all the conditions set out under EU law (freely given, specific, informed, 
and unambiguous) (e.g in the case of employees).101.  

- 

-  National regulations or policies compelling the importer not to disclose the order for access 
may render this clause ineffective, unless it can be backed with technical methods requiring 
the exporter’s or the data subject’s intervention for the data in plain text to be accessible. Such 
technical measures to restrict access may be envisaged in particular if access is only granted in 
specific support or service cases, but the data itself is stored in the EEA. 

*** 

124. The contract could oblige the importer and/or the exporter to notify promptly the data subject of 
the request or order received from the public authorities of the third country, or of the importer’s 
inability  to  comply  with  the  contractual  commitments,  to  enable  the  data  subject  to  seek 
information and an effective redress (e.g. by lodging a claim with his/her competent supervisory 
authority and/or judicial authority and demonstrate his/her standing in the courts of the third 
country),  including  compensation  from  the  data  importer  for  any  material  and  non-material 
damage suffered because of the disclosure of his/her personal data transferred under the chosen 
transfer tool in violation of the commitments it contains.  

125. Conditions for effectiveness:  

-  This notification could alert the data subject to potential accesses by public authorities in third 
countries to his/her data. It could thus enable the data subject to seek additional information 
with the exporters and to lodge  a claim with his/her competent supervisory authority. This 
clause could also address and compensate some of the difficulties an individual may face in 
demonstrating  his/her  standing  (locus  standi)  before  third  country  courts  to  challenge  the 
public authorities’ access to his/her data.  

-  National  regulations  and  policies  may  prevent  this  notification  to  the  data  subject.  The 
exporter and importer could nonetheless commit to informing the data subject as soon as the 
restrictions on the disclosure of data are lifted and to make its best efforts to obtain the waiver 
of  the  prohibition  to  disclose.  At  a  minimum,  the  exporter  or  the  competent  supervisory 
authority  could  notify  the  data  subject  of  the  suspension  or  termination  of  the  transfer  of 
his/her  personal  data  due  to  the  importer’s  inability  to  comply  with  its  contractual 
commitments as a result of its receipt of a request for access.  

                                                           
101 Article 4(11) GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

42 

 

*** 

126. The  contract  could  commit  the  exporter  and  importer  to  assist  the  data  subject  in  exercising 
his/her  rights  in  the  third  country  jurisdiction  through  ad  hoc  redress  mechanisms  and  legal 
counselling. 

127. Conditions for effectiveness 

-  Some national regulations may not allow the data importer to provide this type of assistance 
directly to data subjects, although they may allow the data importer to procure this assistance 
for the data subjects. 

-  National regulations and policies may impose conditions that may undermine the effectiveness 

of the ad hoc redress mechanisms provided for.  

-  Legal counselling could be helpful for the data subject, especially considering how complex and 
costly it can be for a data subject to understand a third country’s legal system and to exercise 
legal actions from abroad, potentially in a foreign language. However, this clause will always 
offer  a  limited  additional  protection,  as  providing  assistance  and  legal  counselling  to  data 
subjects cannot in itself remedy a third country’s legal order failure to provide for a level of 
protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the EEA. This contractual measure 
will necessarily need to be complementary to other supplementary measures. 

-  This supplementary measure would only be effective provided that the law of the third country 
provides for redress before  its  national courts or that an ad hoc redress mechanism exists, 
including against surveillance measures.  

 

2.3 Organisational measures 

128. Additional organisational measures may consist of internal policies, organisational methods, and 
standards controllers and processors could apply to themselves and impose on the importers of 
data in third countries. They may contribute to ensuring consistency in the protection of personal 
data  during  the  full  cycle  of  the  processing.  Organisational  measures  may  also  improve  the 
exporters’ awareness of risk of and attempts to gain access to the data in third countries, and 
their capacity to react to them. Selecting and implementing one or several of these measures will 
not  necessarily  and  systematically  ensure  that  your  transfer  meets  the  essential  equivalence 
standard that EU law requires. Depending on the specific circumstances of the transfer and the 
assessment  performed  on  the  legislation  of  the  third  country,  organisational  measures  are 
needed  to  complement  contractual  and/or  technical  measures,  in  order  to  ensure  a  level  of 
protection of the personal data essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the EEA.  

129. The assessment of the most suitable measures has to be done on a case by cases basis keeping in 
mind the need for controllers and processors to respect the accountability principle. Below, the 
EDPB lists some examples of organisational measures that exporters can implement, albeit the 
list is not exhaustive and other measures may also be appropriate. 

Internal policies for governance of transfers especially with groups of enterprises  

130. Adoption of adequate internal policies with clear allocation of responsibilities for data transfers, 
reporting channels and standard operating procedures for cases of formal or informal requests 

Adopted 

 

43 

 

from  public  authorities  to  access  the  data.  Especially  in  case  of  transfers  among  groups  of 
enterprises,  these  policies  may  include,  among  others,  the  appointment  of  a  specific  team, 
composed of experts on IT, data protection and privacy laws, to deal with requests that involve 
personal  data  transferred  from  the  EEA;  the  notification  to  the  senior  legal  and  corporate 
management  and to the  data  exporter  upon receipt of such requests; the procedural steps to 
challenge disproportionate or unlawful requests and the provision of transparent information to 
data subjects. 

131. Development  of specific training procedures for personnel in charge  of managing requests for 
access to personal data from public authorities, which should be periodically updated to reflect 
new legislative and jurisprudential developments in the third country and in the EEA. The training 
procedures  should  include  the  requirements  of  EU  law  as  to  access  by  public  authorities  to 
personal data, in particular as following from Article 52 (1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. 
Awareness  of  personnel  should  be  raised  in  particular  by  means  of  assessment  of  practical 
examples of public authorities’ data access requests and by applying the standard following from 
Article 52(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights to such practical examples. Such training should 
take into account the particular situation of the data importer, e.g. legislation and regulations of 
the  third  country  to  which  the  data  importer  is  subject  to,  and  should  be  developed  where 
possible in cooperation with the data exporter. 

132. Conditions for effectiveness: 

- These policies may only be envisaged for those cases where the request from public authorities 
in  the  third  country  is  compatible  with  EU  law.102  When  the  request  is  incompatible,  these 
policies would not suffice to ensure an equivalent level of protection of the personal data and, 
as said above, transfers must be stopped or appropriate supplementary measures to avoid the 
access must be put in place. 

Transparency and accountability measures 

133. Document and record the requests for access received from public authorities and the response 
provided,  alongside  the  legal  reasoning  and  the  actors  involved  (e.g.  if  the  exporter  has  been 
notified and its reply, the assessment of the team in charge of dealing with such requests, etc.). 
These records should be made available to the data exporter, who should in turn provide them to 
the data subjects concerned.  

134. Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  National legislation in the third country may prevent disclosure of the requests or substantial 
information thereof and therefore render this practice ineffective. The data importer should 
inform the exporter of its inability to provide such documents and records, thus offering the 
exporter  the  option  to  suspend  the  transfers  if  such  inability  would  lead  to  the  failure  to 
provide an adequate level of protection.  

*** 

                                                           
102 See Case C-362/14 (« Schrems I »), par. 94; C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 168, 174, 175 and 176. 

Adopted 

 

44 

 

135. Regular publication of transparency reports or summaries regarding governmental requests for 

access to data and the kind of reply provided, insofar publication is allowed by local law.  

136. Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  The  information  provided  should  be  relevant,  clear  and  as  detailed  as  possible.  National 
legislation in the third country may prevent disclosure of detailed information. In those cases, 
the data importer should employ its best efforts to publish statistical information or similar 
type of aggregated information.  

Organisation methods and data minimisation measures 

137. Already  existing  organisational  requirements  under  the  accountability  principle,  such  as  the 
adoption of strict and granular data access and confidentiality policies and best practices, based 
on  a  strict  need-to-know  principle,  monitored  with  regular  audits  and  enforced  through 
disciplinary measures may also be useful measures in a transfer context. Data minimisation should 
be  considered  in  this  regard,  in  order  to  limit  the  exposure  of  personal  data  to  unauthorised 
access. For example, in some cases it might not be necessary to transfer certain data (e.g. in case 
of remote access to EEA data, such as in support cases, when restricted access is granted instead 
of full access; or when the provision of a service only requires the transfer of a limited set of data, 
and not an entire database).  

138. Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  Regular audits and strong disciplinary measures should be in place in order to monitor and 

enforce compliance with the data minimisation measures also in the transfer context.  

-  The data exporter shall perform an assessment of the personal data in its possession before 
the transfer takes place, in order to identify those sets of data that are not necessary for the 
purposes of the transfer and, therefore, won’t be shared with the data importer.  

-  Data minimisation measures should be accompanied with technical measures so as to ensure 
that data are not subject to unauthorised access. For example, the implementation of secure 
multiparty computation mechanisms and the spread of encrypted datasets among different 
trusted  entities  can  prevent  by  design  that  any  unilateral  access  leads  to  the  disclosure  of 
identifiable data. 

*** 

139. Development  of  best  practices  to  appropriately  and  timely  involve  and  provide  access  to 
information  to  the  data  protection  officer,  if  existent,  and  to  the  legal  and  internal  auditing 
services on matters related to international transfers of personal data transfers.  

140. Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  The  data  protection  officer,  if  existent,  and  the  legal  and  internal  auditing  team  shall  be 
provided with all the relevant information prior to the transfer, and shall be consulted on the 
necessity of the transfer and the additional safeguards, if any.  

-  Relevant  information  should  include,  for  example,  the  assessment  on  the  necessity  of  the 
transfer of the specific personal data, an overview of the laws of the third country applicable 
and the safeguards the importer committed to implement.  

Adopted 

 

45 

 

Adoption of standards and best practices 

141. Adoption of strict data security and data privacy policies, based on EU certification or codes of 
conducts or on international standards (e.g. ISO norms) and best practices (e.g. ENISA) with due 
regard to the state of the art, in accordance with the risk of the categories of data processed.  

Others 

142. Adoption  and  regular  review  of  internal  policies  to  assess  the  suitability  of  the  implemented 
complementary measures and identify and implement additional or alternative solutions when 
necessary, to ensure that an essentially equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed within 
the EEA of the personal data transferred is maintained. 

*** 

143. Commitments from the data importer to not engage in any onward transfer of the personal data 
within  the  same  or  other  third  countries,  or  suspend  ongoing  transfers,  when  an  essentially 
equivalent  level of  protection  of  the  personal  data  to  that  afforded  within  the  EEA  cannot  be 
guaranteed in the third country.103 

 

 

                                                           
103 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 135 and 137.  

Adopted 

 

46 

 

ANNEX  3:  POSSIBLE  SOURCES  OF  INFORMATION  TO  ASSESS  A  THIRD 
COUNTRY  

144. Your data importer should be in a position to provide you with relevant sources and information 
relating  to  the  third  country  in  which  it  is  established,  including  the  laws  and  the  practices 
applicable to the importer and the data transferred. You and the importer may refer to several 
sources of information, such as the ones non-exhaustively listed below and presented by order of 
preference:  

-  Case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) and of the European Court of 
the  European  Essential  Guarantees 

(ECtHR)104  as  referred  to 

in 

Human  Rights 
recommendations;105  

-  Adequacy  decisions  in  the  country  of  destination  if  the  transfer  relies  on  a  different  legal 

basis;106 

-  Resolutions  and  reports  from  intergovernmental  organisations,  such  as  the  Council  of 
Europe,107  other  regional  bodies,108;  and  UN  bodies  and  agencies  (e.g.  UN  Human  Rights 
Council,109 Human Rights Committee110); 

-  Reports  and  analysis  from  competent  regulatory  networks,  such  as  the  Global  Privacy 

Assembly (GPA);111  

-  National  case-law  or  decisions  taken  by  independent  judicial  or  administrative  authorities 

competent on data privacy and data protection of third countries; 

-  Reports of independent oversight or parliamentary bodies; 
-  Reports  based  on  practical  experience  with  prior  instances  of  requests  for  disclosure  from 
public authorities, or the absence of such requests, from entities active in the same sector as 
the importer;  

-  Warrant canaries of other entities processing data in the same field as the importer; 
-  Reports  produced  or  commissioned  by  Chambers  of  commerce,  business,  professional  and 
trade associations, governmental diplomatic, trade and investment agencies of the exporter 
or other third countries exporting to the third country to which the transfer is made; 

-  Reports from academic institutions, and civil society organizations (e.g. NGOs); 

                                                           
104 See factsheet of the ECtHR jurisprudence on mass surveillance: 
 
https://www.echr.coe.int/Documents/FS_Mass_surveillance_ENG.pdf 
105 EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the European Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures, 10 
November 2020, https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/edpb-
recommendations-022020-european-essential_en 
106 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 141; see adequacy decisions in   https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-
topic/data-protection/international-dimension-data-protection/adequacy-decisions_en  
107 https://www.coe.int/en/web/data-protection/reports-studies-and-opinions  
108  See  for 
https://www.oas.org/en/iachr/reports/country.asp.   
109 See https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/UPR/Pages/Documentation.aspx  
110 See:   
https://tbinternet.ohchr.org/_layouts/15/treatybodyexternal/TBSearch.aspx?Lang=en&TreatyID=8&DocTypeID
=5  
111  See  e.g.  https://globalprivacyassembly.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Day-1-1_2a-Day-3-3_2b-v1_0-
Policy-Strategy-Working-Group-WS1-Global-frameworks-and-standards-Report-Final.pdf  

instance  country  reports  of  the  Inter-American  Commission  on  Human  Rights  (IACHR), 

Adopted 

 

47 

 

 

-  Reports  from  private  providers  of  business  intelligence  on  financial,  regulatory  and 

reputational risks for companies; 

-  Warrant canaries of the importer itself;112 
-  Transparency reports, on the condition that they expressly mention the fact that no access 
requests were received. Transparency reports merely silent on this point would not qualify as 
sufficient evidence as these reports most often focus on access requests received from law 
enforcement  authorities  and  provide  figures  only  on  this  aspect  while  remaining  silent  on 
access requests for national security purposes received. This does not mean that no access 
requests were received but rather that this information cannot be shared;113 
Internal statements or records of the  importer  expressly  indicating that no access requests 
were received for a sufficiently long period; and with a preference for statements and records 
engaging the liability of the importer and/or issued by internal positions with some autonomy 
such as internal auditors, DPOs, etc.114  

- 

                                                           
112 See conditions for the consideration of the documented practical experience of the importer with relevant 
prior instances of requests for access received from public authorities in the third country in paragraph 47.  
113 Ibid. 
114 Ibid. 

Adopted 

 

48 

