
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    07/20/2018
                                Homepage of the data protection conference goes onlineSince July 19, 2018, the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (data protection conference) has been offering information on data protection in general and on the General Data Protection Regulation on a central information platform. New content can be obtained via an RSS feed. Since July 19, 2018, the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (data protection conference) has had its own website. This can be reached at https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/. Current resolutions, guidelines and short papers from the data protection conference can be accessed on the central information platform, as well as references to the data protection laws of the federal and state governments and their websites. New content can be obtained via an RSS feed. Dieter Kugelman. "In order to take account of the uniform application envisaged by the basic regulation and to give those responsible certainty of action, it is essential to communicate the positions of the German supervisory authorities and the decisions of the European Data Protection Board. The homepage of the data protection conference complements the existing information offers of the data protection supervisory authorities and creates a central access to data protection-relevant information. "Further information: The data protection conference consists of the independent data protection authorities of the federal and state governments. It has the task of safeguarding and protecting fundamental data protection rights, achieving uniform application of European and national data protection law and working together to promote its further development " to: vpo-presse-list-request@lists.datenschutz.de. Internet offer of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI): www.datenschutz.rlp.deNewsletter of the LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate: https: //www.datenschutz.rlp.de/de/service/newsletter/
                                return
                            



