DATA PROTECTION ACT  2018  AND UK GENERAL  DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

TO:  Birmingham Children's Trust  Community  Interest Company 

OF:  1 Avenue Road 
Aston 
Birmingham 
B64DU 

to Birmingham 

1.1 The Information 
reprimand 
(BCTCIC) in accordance 
Protection 
UK GDPR. 

Regulation 

Commissioner 

(the Commissioner) 

issues a 

Children's 

Trust Community Interest 
58(2)(b) 

of the UK General Data 

Company 

with Article 

(UK GDPR) in respect of certain 

infringements 

of the 

1.2 BCTCIC is owned by Birmingham 
independently 
registered 
Council. 

with the ICO as a separate 

of the council 

City Council 

however it works 

in delivering 

its services. 
data controller 

BCTCIC is 
to Birmingham  City 

1.3 On 10 November 2022 a personal 
involved 
inclusion 
person in a Child Protection 

The breach 
about another 
Plan (CP plan) by BCTCIC sent to a family. 

of some information 

data breach occurred. 

the inappropriate 

data relating 

to children 

and criminal 

about the other person was inappropriately 

personal 

1.4 The CP plan included 
offence data. This information 
accessed 
guidance 
requires 
criminal 

when the CP plan was received 
states that if you are collecting 
particular 
offence data carries 

protection. ICO 

and read by the recipient. 
and processing 
guidance states 

ICO 
children's 
data it 
that processing 

more risk than other personal 

data. 

1.5 The department 
BCTCIC's 
department 
area to make a positive 
responsible 
workers. 

that inappropriately 

disclosed 

the personal 

data was 

Child Protection 

and Review (CP&R) department. 

The CP&R 

of BCTCIC aims to offer support to families 

in the Birmingham 

difference 

to their lives. 

The employees 

for delivering 

these services 

mainly consist 

of trained 

social 

1.6 BCTCIC's 
relating 

CP&R department 
and criminal 

regularly 
offence data. 

to children 

processes 

both personal 

data 

1 

1.7  When the incident  occurred  BCTCIC  was  aiming  to  deliver  its  services 
between two  neighbouring  families,  family  A  and  family  B.  Child  X  was 
part  of  family  B.  The mother of  family  A had  raised  concerns with  BCTCIC, 
regarding  the interactions of  her  child  and child  X. The  data  subjects  in 
this  matter  therefore are all service users. 

1.8  The ICO  has established  that  a  child  protection  meeting 

is  responsible  for creating  a CP  plan.  The process 

of formulating  a CP  plan,  would  take  place following  an Initial Child 
Protection Conference  (ICPC) meeting. The recorded  notes  from the ICPC 
meeting  would usually  provide the 
information  to  create the CP  plan. 

with  the  necessary 

would  ordinarily  have  access 
1.9  During  this  process  the 
to  a danger  and  harms  statement. This  is  because  the  danger  and  harms 
would be part  of  the  meeting  agenda during  the ICPC.  However,  on  this 
occasion the danger and harms  to family  A did not  form part  of  this 
meeting. 

,  upon  identifying  that they  could not  construct  a 
1.10  The 
danger  and  harms statement  from  these notes alone,  took  the  initiative to 
retrospectively  access  the minutes of  a  separate strategy  meeting 
between  BCTCIC  and  West  Midlands Police,  which  contained  a summary 
of  concerns  raised  by  family  A. The 
then copied  over the 
full  statement  into  the  danger  and  harms  section  of  the CP plan. 

1.11  Upon  completion  of  the CP  plan,  the 
the plan for  disclosure  to family  A. As  a consequence,  the CP  plan 
contained  criminal offence data  and personal data in  error,  including 
identifying  information  and  criminal  allegations  against  child  X,  that  West 
Midlands  Police was  investigating  that  was  not  appropriate to be disclosed 
to family  A. 

then approved 

Severity  of  Breach 

1.12  The  Commissioner  has established that the  data  disclosed  included 
both  sensitive criminal  data  (serious  criminal offence  allegations  made 
against child  X)  and  personal identifiers  of  an individual  under the age  of 
18  (child  X). 

2 

1.13  BCTCIC  has  not identified  any  actual harms,  however,  BCTCIC  has 
acknowledged  an  expectation of  harm  in the form  of  distress to  the  data 
subject and  family. Additionally,  the ICO  has  identified the following 
potential consequences: 

•  Risk of  vigilantism,  potential  physical  harm/attacks at home. 
•  Psychological  harms  negligently,  knowingly,  or  purposefully  paving 

the way  for emotional distress or  disturbance  (embarrassment, 
anxiety,  fear)  to  occur. 

•  Detriment  to  mental  health. 
•  Loss of  sense  or  control of  identity. 
•  Distressed  relationships. 
•  Loss of  confidence. 
•  Discrimination. 

1.14 The  Commissioner  also considers  that despite  the personal data 
itself being retrieved from  family  A,  the personal data  in  the CP  plan  was 
accessed  by  family  A.  Had  BCTCIC  had appropriate  technical  and 
organisational  measures  in  place,  the  risks  to the data subjects would 
have  been mitigated. 

The reprimand 

1.15  The  Commissioner  has decided  to  issue a  reprimand to  BCTCIC  in 
respect  of  the following  alleged  infringements of  the  UK  GDPR.  BCTCIC 
was  invited  to  make  representations.  BCTCIC  made  representations on  2 7  
February  2024. 

•  Article  S(l)(f) and Articles 32 (1)(b,)  and 32 (2) which  state: 

Article  S(l)(f) 

1.16  "Personal  data  shall  be processed in a  manner that  ensures 
appropriate  security  of  the personal  data,  including  protection  against 
unauthorised  or  unlawful  processing  and against  accidental  loss, 
destruction or damage,  using  appropriate  technical  or  organisational 
measures  (integrity  and confidentiality)." 

Article 32 ( 1) 

1.17  "Taking  into  account  the state  of  the  art,  the  costs  of  implementation 
and the nature,  scope,  context  and  purposes of  processing  as  well  as  the 

3 

risk  of varying  likelihood and  severity  for the rights  and freedoms of 
natural  persons,  the  controller  shall  implement  appropriate  technical  and 
organisational measures to ensure  a level  of  security  appropriate to  the 
risk,  including inter  alia as  appropriate: 

(b)  the ability  to  ensure the ongoing  confidentiality,  integrity,  availability 
and resilience of processing systems and services.11 

Article 32 (2) 

1.18  "In assessing  the appropriate level  of security  account  shall  be  taken 
in  particular of  the  risks that  are  presented  by  processing,  in  particular 
from  accidental  or  unlawful  destruction,  loss,  alteration,  unauthorised 
disclosure of,  or  access to personal  data  transmitted,  stored  or otherwise 
processed.,, 

1.19  The reasons for the Commissioner 1 

s  findings are  set out  below. 

Article  S(l)(f) and Articles  32(1)(b) and (2) 

1.20  BCTCIC  had  evidenced  some  procedures that  it  believed  ensured  the 
security  of  personal  data  in this  case  as  follows: 

•  The standards set out  by  Social  Work  England. 
•  The Initial Child Protection Process  Map. 
•  Quality  Assurance Checklist  Questions. 
•  Data  Protection  Policy. 

1.21  The ICO  has  considered  that  these policies  fall  short of achieving 
appropriate technical  and  organisational measures to  ensure the security 
of  the  personal data  in this  case. This  is  because they  lack  prominent  and 
sufficient practical guidance regarding  what personal  data  is  inappropriate 
for  release. The  initial  child  protection process map,  designates 
responsibility  for ensuring  personal  data is not  included  that is 
inappropriate  for release,  but  no  practical  guidance  on  how this  is  to  be 
achieved.  Whilst  there is  a  separate  quality  assurance  checklist,  this also 
does  not  provide  any  practical guidance  on screening  for  data that needs 
redacting. This  is coupled  with  BCTCIC  not having  any  form  of  secondary 
or independent  review,  or  corporate  redaction  policy  in place. As the ICO 
would expect  the  data protection policy  only provides a framework for 
ensuring  compliance,  not practical  guidance. As such  this  should  support 

4 

granular  policies  and not replace  them.  As a  consequence,  sensitive 
criminal data and  personal data  relating to a  child  was disclosed 
inappropriately  to  a  neighbouring  family. 

1.22  BCTCIC  at  the  time of  the breach relied  on the  professional 
standards  set  out  by  Social  Work  England.  BCTCIC  believed  that as social 
workers  aim to  meet these standards,  this provided  them  with  the 
appropriate level  of  expertise in data protection.  BCTCIC  highlighted  two 
sections  that  it  believed were relevant to data  protection. The ICO  finds 
that  practice standard two may  hold  some merit,  if combined  with robust 
granular  procedures. It  is  considered  the additional standards,  however, 
were not designed,  specifically,  with  data  protection  compliance in  mind. 
As such  Social  Work  England  standards  are not  an appropriate substitute 
for internal governance on how  BCTCIC's social workers  process personal 
data.  Had  robust  policies  been in  place then the ICO  considers  that  Social 
Work  England's standards would  have  been appropriate  in  a  supporting 
role. 

Lack  of  robust  policies 

1.23  BCTCIC  has  failed to provide  the ICO  with clear evidence of  any  role 
specific  Standard Operating  Procedures  (SOPs),  processes or  policies  that 
ensure  staff  in  the  CP&R department  can  interpret  how to apply  data 
protection obligations  in  a  practical  sense. 

1.24  BCTCIC  relied  too heavily  on  the  standards set  by  the  Social  Work 
England.  Given  the  size and  resource  of the controller,  the  Commissioner 
would expect  BCTCIC  to have  had  bespoke  SOPs in  place,  which focus  on 
the  practical  application of data  protection  principles. 

Training 

1.25  BCTCIC  at  the  time of  the breach had  in place  data  protection 
training for all its staff,  regardless of  contract. The  ICO  is  encouraged  that 
this  was  carried  out  on  a  mandatory  basis at  the start of  employment, 
and that  it  is  refreshed annually.  BCTCIC  should  continue to administer its 
training  in this way,  as  this will ensure  it continues to utilise  best  practice. 

1.26  Whilst  BCTCIC  has  an appropriate  framework for providing  training 
on  data protection  principles,  for the  initial  training  of  its  staff  and  for 
refresher  training  to  take place,  the  lack  of specific  standard  operating 

5 

procedures  in  place  for  social workers to  follow,  reduces the  impact  of 
such  training.  BCTCIC  could  have  provided  granular,  role-specific  training 
to  its  social  workers.  BCTCIC's  data  protection team  could  consider  how 
the  concepts of  data  protection  apply  to their  individual  teams,  adapting 
the  training  appropriately.  This  could  allow for its staff  to gain a  deeper 
understanding,  and  application of  their  data protection  obligations within 
individual  roles. 

Mitigating  factors 

1.2 7  In the course  of  the  investigation  the ICO  has  noted  that: 

•  BCTCIC  contacted  West  Midlands  Police,  who  confirmed  that the 

data breach  would  not  prejudice  its  investigation. 

Remedial steps taken by  BCTCIC 

1.28  The  Commissioner  has  also  considered  and  welcomes  the remedial 
steps  taken  by  BCTCIC  in  light  of  this  incident. In  particular: 

A) A  social  worker immediately  contacted  the neighbour that  was 
inappropriately  in  receipt of  this data  and recovered the CP plan on  the 
same  day  as  the disclosure. 

B)  Family  B  (family  of  child  X) were informed by  post  that  their child's 
data  with regards to  the allegations,  had been shared  with  family  A. 
BCTCIC  subsequently  conducted  a  risk assessment. 

C)  BCTCIC  replaced  the  version  of  the  CP  plan,  which  had  previously 
contained  child  X's  personal data  with  an  updated  version. 

D)  BCTCIC  advised  family  A  that  the  information  disclosed is confidential 
and they  must  not  share the  information any  further.  BCTCIC  explained 
the  criminal  implications  to family  A  if  they  share  child  X's  personal  data, 
without  the authorisation of  BCTCIC. 

E)  BCTCIC  conducted a  review  of  the 
BCTCIC  found  no  other  disclosures  in  the CP  plans  drafted by  this 
individual. 

other  cases. 

F) BCTCIC  has  completely  revised  the  document  template  in question  (CP 
Plan). It now has  an  optional "confidential" section  where  information  can 
be  placed  and  two  outputs can  then  be  generated,  one  with  and  one 
without  confidential  information.  It is  now  far  briefer  and there should  be 

6 

no  circumstance  in  which  information  should  need  to  be  copied  and 
pasted  from any  other place.  BCTCIC's most  commonly  produced 
documents  have  also been revised  to  minimise  this risk. The new CP  plan 
went  live  on 16  November  2023. 

G)  Other  documents added  to  BCTCIC's case management  system,  now 
require the 
information  contained,  needs  to  be  withheld. This went live on  16 
November  2023. 

to  answer questions about whether  the 

H) As  part  of  BCTCIC's Information  Assurance Plan,  all  policies and 
procedures  undertaken are undergoing  a  review. 

Decision  to  issue  a  reprimand 

1.29  Taking into  account all the circumstances of  this case  including  the 
mitigating  factors,  the  Commissioner  has  decided  to  issue  a  reprimand  to 
BCTCIC  in  relation  to the  infringements  of  Articles  S(l)(f),  32 (l)(b) and 
32 (2) of  the  UK  GDPR as  set  out  above. 

Further  Action Recommended 

1.30  The Commissioner  has set out  below certain  recommendations  which 
may  assist  BCTCIC  in  rectifying  the  infringements  outlined  in  this 
reprimand  and  ensuring  BCTCIC's  future compliance  with  the  UK  GDPR. 
Please note that  these recommendations do not  form  part  of the 
reprimand and  are  not legally  binding directions. As such,  any  decision  by 
BCTCIC  to follow  these recommendations  is  voluntary  and  a  commercial 
decision for  BCTCIC.  For  the avoidance  of  doubt,  BCTCIC  is  of  course 
required  to comply  with  its  obligations  under the law. 

1.31  If in the future  the ICO  has grounds  to suspect  that  BCTCIC  is  not 
complying  with  data  protection  law,  any  failure by  BCTCIC  to rectify  the 
infringements  set  out in this  reprimand  (which  could  be  done by  following 
the  Commissioner's  recommendations  or  taking  alternative  appropriate 
steps) may  be taken  into account  as  an  aggravating  factor  in deciding 
whether  to take  enforcement  action  - see page 11 of  the Regulatory 
Action  Policy  Regulatory Action  Policy (ico.org.uk)  and Article  83(2)(i)  of 
the  UK  GDPR. 

1.32  The  Commissioner  recommends  that  BCTCIC  should  consider  taking 
certain  steps  to  improve  its  compliance  with  UK  GDPR.  With  particular 
reference to  Articles  S(l)(f),  32 (l)(b) and 32 (2) of  the  UK  GDPR,  the 
following  steps  are  recommended: 

7 

1.33)  BCTCIC  should implement  a  more  granular approach  to data 
protection and  create a  SOP with  regards  to producing social care 
documents. The  Commissioner recommends the  SOP should  include  a 
process  for any  social  care  product  to  be independently  checked  by 
someone other than the author for personal data,  prior to  disclosure. 

1.34)  BCTCIC  should  create and implement a  corporate redaction  policy, 
which ensures staff  have  the knowledge  and  tools,  to  redact  the product 
should  it  become  necessary. 

1.35)  BCTCIC  could  also consider what  other  processes  in  its departments 
lead to the disclosure  of  personal  data to service users.  Once  identified  it 
should consider: 

A) Implementing or  reviewing  appropriate policies  and  SOPs,  at  a 
granular  level  to  mitigate  any  data protection  risks  identified. This 
will  ensure  each  department  is equipped  to  comply  with  BCTCIC's 
overarching data  protection  policy. 
B)  BCTCIC  on  completion of  such policies and  SOPs,  should  consider 
training  for its staff  to ensure  these  policies and  SOPs  are 
understood  and  implemented  by  its  staff. 
C)  BCTCIC  could engage in  dip  sampling  of  work  within the first  six 
months,  to  satisfy  itself  that  the  policies and  SOPs introduced are 
effective. 

1.36  The ICO  invites  you to provide  feedback on  these recommendations, 
six months from  the  date of  issue. As stated  in  section  1.30  these 
recommendations do not  form  part  of  the reprimand,  therefore,  the 
request  for  feedback is  not  legally  binding. As such,  any  decision  for 
BCTCIC  to provide  feedback is  voluntary  and  a  commercial  decision  for 
BCTCIC. 

8 

