1/53



File No.: PS/00197/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), dated ***DATE.1,
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter,
AEPD). The claim is directed, among others, against LA VANGUARDIA EDICIONES,
S.L., with NIF B61475257 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The reasons on which it is based
the claim are as follows:

The complaining party reported that several media outlets published in
their websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a rape
multiple, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was
very mediatic The complaining party provided links to the news published in
the websites of the claimed media, those relating to the claimed party being:

- ***URL.1
- ***URL.2
- ***URL.3

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the claimant was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter in which it was still available, including a tweet from the
claimed part.

SECOND: Dated ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, being aware of the
following extremes:

During the investigation actions, publications were found, more than
those initially denounced by the complaining party, where the voice of the complainant could be heard
undistorted victim. Regarding the claimed part, the following were found:
publications:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/53






***URL.2
 
 
***URL.4
 
 
***URL.5
 
 
***URL.1
 
 

On ***DATE.4, the defendant was notified of a precautionary withdrawal measure
urgent content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that
will be unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this was accessible
content.

On the same day of the aforementioned notification, the AEPD received a letter sent by
this entity informing that the videos had been removed from all the
places of publication, distorting the voice of the intervener in those videos
that they had been kept published; verifying that the tweets had been
deleted and that in the case of the digital page of La Vanguardia, it had been
distorted voice of the victim's statement on the video.

FOURTH: On May 3, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, classified as
in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR.

The aforementioned initiation agreement was notified to the claimed party, in accordance with the rules
established in the LPACAP, on May 3, 2022.

FIFTH: With the registration date of May 11, 2022, the party
The defendant requested a copy of the file as well as an extension of the term to present
allegations.

On May 12, 2022, the file was forwarded to the defendant, granting the
At the same time, a new term to present allegations.

SIXTH: The claimed party submitted a brief of allegations on May 25, 2022,
in which, in summary, he stated:

1.- The inadmissibility of the admission to processing of the claim that has originated the
present disciplinary procedure in application of the provisions of article 65.3
of the LOPDGDD, which provides that the AEPD may reject the claim when the
person responsible, prior warning issued by the competent authority, would have
adopted the corrective measures aimed at putting an end to the possible non-compliance
of data legislation.

It indicates that "if we turn to the aforementioned Title VIII of the LOPDGDD, we observe that
expressly detail three different procedural moments in which the Agency
may agree on the adoption of measures”: before the admission for processing (article 65.3
of the LOPDGDD), before the adoption of the agreement to start the procedure and a
Once the claim has been admitted for processing (article 67.1 of the LOPDGDD) and a
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/53

procedure for the exercise of the sanctioning power (article 68 LOPDGDD).
Understanding that in this case "the adoption of prior or provisional measures
agreed prior to admission for processing, but the course was not followed
provided for in article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD.”

He makes such a statement because "On *** DATE.2, according to folio 10 of the file
and with reference E/05505/2021, it is indicated that in procedure E/05479/2021, the
AEPD "agreed to carry out these investigative actions in relation to
with the claimed facts.” And on ***DATE.3 the admission for processing of the
complaining party.

It goes on to indicate that "The report on pages 18 to 23 indicates that as
Result of the research actions are the publications
indicated in the complaint and in which the voice of the victim can be heard without
distort, proceeding for all those responsible for the treatment to the emission with
date ***DATE.5, of the resolution of provisional measure of urgent withdrawal of
content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that it would be
unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this content was accessible.”
Therefore, on ***DATE.4, the claimed party immediately proceeded to comply
such requirement, which was communicated to the AEPD on that same date.

Based on the foregoing, it indicates that, by virtue of article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD, of the
general principles that govern the disciplinary procedure and since it adopted
immediately the measures required by the AEPD, leaving the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data of the fully affected
guaranteed, the claim should have been rejected for processing and the
file of proceedings.

It invokes the principles of proportionality, of least restriction and interference of the
administrative action on the rights of citizens and rationality, all
They are included in article 4.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Law of the Public Sector, regarding the "Principles of intervention of the
Public Administrations for the development of an activity”. Consider that such
principles have not been taken into account by the AEPD in this case because, all
once the corrective measures that it required were taken care of immediately
and that such measures should have been carried out prior to admission to
procedure, what proceeded was the inadmissibility of the claim and the filing of the
performances.

For all of the above, he understands that the procedure suffers from a formal defect.
in the processing for the violation of articles 64 and 65 of the LOPDGDD.

2.- The reason for this proceeding is the claim made by
A.A.A., not a claim made by the interested party. That is, the request has
been processed "by a third party who in no case has proven to meet the requirements
sufficient minimums of having been affected in their rights or interests
legitimate to obtain the status of interested party in the administrative procedure
in the terms provided in article 4.1.a) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/53

For this reason, it considers that "if rational indications of a possible violation of
of article 6.1 a) GDPR, the administrative procedure should have been initiated by
own initiative of the AEPD, in accordance with the provisions of articles 64 and 65 of the
LOPDGDD, relating to the way in which the procedure is initiated and its duration, and
not as admission for processing of the complaint from a third party that does not justify what their
legitimation, nor does it prove in a proven way the existence of a violation of
rights."

Based on the foregoing, he again understands that the procedure suffers from a defect of
form in the processing for the violation of articles 64 and 65 of the LOPDGDD.

3.- The qualification of the data object of treatment, since "the voice, data regarding the
which the compliance with the principle of minimization is questioned, does not constitute, in
in any way, sensitive data", so we are not dealing with data processing
categorized in article 9 of the GDPR.

For this reason, it criticizes the agreement to start the disciplinary procedure when it indicates that
“by weighing the conflicting interests and, taking into account the concurrent circumstances
of this case, that is, the especially sensitive nature of the personal data and
the intense affectation to the privacy of the victim, […]”

The claimed party disagrees that the content of the victim's statement keeps
relation to the sexual life of the interested party since, "although the criminal offense prosecuted
violates the sexual freedom of the victim, it has nothing to do with sexual life
(orientation, tastes or sexual behaviors) of the latter.”

Likewise, it considers that "the qualification of the facts contained in the news item and its
affectation of the fundamental rights to honor, privacy and own image, of the
victim would be capable of being determined before the civil courts of justice, not
In our opinion, it is the responsibility of the Control Authority to evaluate whether
produced or not, a violation of the aforementioned rights.”

4.- The voice as personal data and its consideration of excessive treatment within the framework
of the content object of claim.

The party claimed does not question that the voice is personal data, but that
It will only be so in some cases, specifically in those cases in which the
data allows individualization directly, associating with an individual
concrete.

He points out that, to date, the only information about the victim that has come out has been his
sex, age and physical location at the time of the events, attributes
which, together with her voice, she considers do not allow the general public to identify her without
use additional information.

In addition, he considers that there are three elements that increase the difficulty of a
possible identification of the interested party:

- The intrinsic variability of vocal data,
- the need for prior contact to recognize the speaker,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/53

- and the immediacy of the withdrawal of the original recording.

5.- Regarding the right to data protection, the claimed party asserts
manifest that the purpose of including the audio of the victim's statement before
the judge was not to illustrate the news concerning the holding of the trial in a case that was
very media, but "to draw the attention of the reader, and when necessary denounce, as
the prosecutor had conducted the interrogation in the first session of the trial, without any
empathy for the victim, forcing the young woman to recount what happened over and over again
that night, constantly interrupting her and forcing her to back off and go back to
explain the details of the attack when he had already told them.”

He points out that "video published without deep masking of the voice contributes to the
I report the ability to demonstrate the tension to which the victim was subjected in the
course of the interrogation, their reactions, their state of mind and, ultimately and as
makes the news explicit, verifying the prosecutor's lack of empathy, and the ignorance of the "evil
the drink she was going through has forced the young woman to reminisce over and over again
time the scenes of the rape delving into her suffering.”

Therefore, it considers that the voice of the victim was necessary for the purpose
informative, it does add value to the information echoed by the news,
therefore, consequently, it has complied with article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, since it does not
there has been excessive processing of personal data.

6.- Existence of balance between the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information
and the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data in the
present case, so there is no violation of the GDPR or the
LOPDGDD, nor damage to the rights and freedoms of the victim.

It considers that in the present case, when weighing the conflicting interests,
taking into account the circumstances of the present case and the nature of the news object
of reproach, that is, the complaint of the prosecutor's actions and the non-existence of
measures adopted by the criminal court itself beyond the inclusion of a folding screen
that concealed the image of the victim, it must be concluded that the right to
information, and there has been no real affectation to the privacy of the victim.

He criticizes the invocation made by the initiation agreement to the STS, of its First Chamber of the
Civil, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec. 3318/2014), in relation to the recruitment and
disclosure in court of the image of a victim of gender violence whenever
that case referred to the broadcast of close-up images of the appellant together
with other additional data that allowed the identification of the person, unlike
of what happens in the present case, in which the claimed party has omitted
any other information that is excessive or superfluous.

He also criticizes the reproach made by the AEPD regarding the lack of
consent for the dissemination of voice data, since "it is not said basis
law that enables the media to process personal data of
who are the subject of news in exercise and guarantee of the right to free
information."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/53

It shows that the trial was oral, in a public hearing, with the presence of
public and the media and without the court applying restrictive measures to
the diffusion of the voice, such as distortion or masking, said court being
the one who distributed the questioned audio among the different news agencies and these,
in turn, between the different media. In the specific case of the part
claimed, the recording was provided by Agencia EFE because the part was found
claimed adhered to the framework agreement that said agency maintains signed with the
Information Media Association (AMI).

For this purpose, it invokes article 681 of the Criminal Procedure Law (hereinafter,
Lecrim), which establishes that sessions can take place behind closed doors "when
so required by reasons of morality or public order or the respect due to the person
offended by the crime or her family", as it also contemplates that the judge or court,
ex officio or at the request of a party, has the possibility of adopting measures for the
protection of the privacy of the victim and their relatives, such as:

“a) Prohibit the disclosure or publication of information related to the identity
of the victim, of data that may facilitate their identification directly or
indirectly, or those personal circumstances that would have been valued for
decide on your protection needs.

b) Prohibit the obtaining, disclosure or publication of images of the victim or

of their relatives."

Since the court did not adopt additional protection measures for the most
beyond a screen to prevent direct visualization of the victim, and that neither the victim
nor the Public Prosecutor, as expressly provided for in article 301 bis of the Lecrim,
interested in the adoption of additional precautions, understands that they do not
considered necessary, so the media outlet has not carried out a
excessive data processing.

7.- Regarding the action of the data controller to distort the voice of the
victim when required by the AEPD, considers that "it should not be interpreted as
an evidence that the treatment was not necessary, but as an act of diligence
of the person responsible at the request of the control authority, and that, in any
case, it was the adoption of a provisional measure, which should not prejudge
on the merits of the matter."

8.- Finally, in the other, I say, the claimed party requests, secondarily, that in
In the event that this sanctioning procedure is not archived, it is agreed to have
as mitigating factors when imposing the sanction, "the lack of adoption of measures
by the judicial body that distributed the published audio tending to prohibit or
limit the dissemination of the voice of the victim, the non-request by the public prosecutor's office or
of the defense of the victim of such measures, the short time that the aforementioned video
was published, the non-sensitive nature of the voice data, as well as the difficulty to
identify the victim through her voice alone.”

SEVENTH: On September 30, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
penalize LA VANGUARDIA EDICIONES, S.L., with NIF B61475257, for a

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/53

violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, with a
fine of €50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

As well as that by the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
confirm the following provisional measures imposed on LA VANGUARDIA
EDITIONS, S.L.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

EIGHTH: With the registration date of October 6, 2022, the part
The defendant requested an extension of the term to present allegations.

On October 10, 2022, the defendant was notified of the granting of a new term
to present claims.

NINTH: The claimed party submitted a pleadings brief on October 21,
2022, in which, in summary, it stated, as additional allegations to all and
each of those made in his brief of May 25, 2022, the following:

1.- Incorrect interpretation of the assumption regulated in article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD.

The defendant considers that from the reading of the aforementioned precept "it is not
It follows that the "warning" to which it refers is the one that
authority can carry out before data processing is carried out.”

It goes on to indicate that article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD "establishes that in order to
to reject the claim in application of said article, it is necessary that the
responsible or in charge has adopted the corrective measure that has been
warned, but also that one of the following measures occurs:

a) That no harm has been caused to the affected party in the case of infringements

provided for in article 74 of the LOPDGDD.

b) That the right of the affected party is fully guaranteed through the

application of the measures.

For this reason, the defendant considers that the case regulated in article 65.3 of
The LOPDGDD "is one in which the treatment has already started at the time the
that the Authority can send the person in charge or person in charge the appropriate warning,
Well, how else would there have been damage to the affected party as a consequence of
of an infraction? If the treatment has not yet been carried out, it is impossible for it to
suppose a fraction and that said infraction has caused damage to the affected party.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/53

It also points out that:

- "If we turn to the aforementioned article 74 of the GDPR, we see that the infractions collected
in it are infractions that require that the treatment has been initiated.”

- “it is unlikely that anyone can make a claim for a
treatment that has not yet been carried out.”

It goes on to indicate that it cannot be interpreted that article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD
“refers solely to the measure contained in section 2.a) of article 58 of the
GDPR since, while said section does refer to the possibility of sanctioning for
"planned treatment operations", article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD speaks of
“put an end to potential non-compliance.” Pointing out the claimed party that "to put
The end of something requires that something previously be started.

It ends by noting that when article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD refers to "possible
non-compliance" cannot be interpreted as referring to non-compliance treatment.
initiated, "but to an "alleged non-compliance" since it cannot yet be affirmed that the
denounced treatment does not comply with the applicable regulations (...) since the
presumption of innocence at that procedural moment.

2.- The improper admission of the claim for processing is reiterated since it has been
presented by a person who is not the interested party or his representative, indicating
that if the Agency "observed rational indications of a possible violation of the GDPR
should have acted on its own initiative, either to carry out the proceedings
investigation, which according to this authority began after
admit the aforementioned claim for processing, either to carry out any other
performance."

The defendant indicates that "he did not claim and does not claim now that the initiation of the
procedure has not been carried out ex officio, but rather all previous actions
should have been initiated on the EEPD's own initiative and not as a consequence of
the admission for processing of a claim presented by a third party outside the
interested.”

For this reason, it considers that "The fact that the disciplinary procedure is initiated
correctly does not make the form defect disappear from all performances
previous ones on which it is based and that, therefore, make it flawed
and it is null, and its file must be agreed."

The claimed party ends stating that it cannot be "understood that the
admission to processing of the claim, the previous actions carried out and the
provisional measure requirement issued are acts unrelated to this
procedure, since far from it, they are acts directly related to it,
since this procedure is based on the aforementioned claim and the confirmation of
the aforementioned provisional measure is the object of the same.”

3.- Non-compliance with article 56 of the LPACAP: The claimed party indicates that "the
measure of withdrawal or distortion of the voice and contents will be agreed in (...) and the agreement
initiation of the procedure will not take place until May 2022. The period elapsed

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/53

between one date and another is (...), time that exceeds the period of 15 days established by the
Article 56.2 of the LPACAP.

On the other hand, the Agreement to start the Disciplinary Procedure does not contain
express pronouncement on said measures, as required by article 56.2 of the
LPACAP.”

The foregoing is considered by the claimed party as another defect of form for which it proceeds
that this proceeding be archived.

4.- The claimed party indicates that the rating of the published content does not
should be taken into account by the AEPD when sanctioning, notwithstanding that,
understood, such content is not considered "special" for the purposes of the
Article 9 of the GDPR.

He criticizes that the proposed resolution defends that having been the victim of a crime
sex is linked to sexual life, because, considers the defendant, "it is not
it can be argued that by publishing the facts relating to a violation one is
informed or seeking information about the future sexual relations of the victim.”

It also criticizes the fact that the proposed resolution indicates that the immediate risk that
cause to the interested party is the certain possibility of recognizing the victim of a crime
violent and against sexual integrity, since it has not been shown that the
interested party has suffered immediate or future damages or losses due to the
treatment carried out by the claimed party.

And for the foregoing, it understands that the
Guidelines of the European Data Protection Board on the calculation of fines
administrative procedures in accordance with the GDPR, in its version of May 12, 2022.

 

5.- Regarding the voice as personal data and its consideration of excessive treatment
 
within the framework of the content object of claim, in addition to reiterating in the
allegations made to the initiation agreement, states that "the AEPD cannot guarantee
that said recognition has taken place, since there is no proof in this regard.”

It continues indicating that "the authority cannot sanction based on possibilities or
probabilities, but only by certain and proven facts, there being no
said facts in the specific case at hand.”

Therefore, it requests "that he not be penalized for some facts and damages that have not been
could prove."

6.- Regarding the right to data protection, the defendant states that "yes
there is a prevalent informative public interest in disseminating the voice of the victim,
such as reflecting the anguish experienced by the victim given the circumstances,
anguish that would have been aggravated by the actions of the prosecutor.", which was not
get with the current video.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/53

7.- Point out that there is a balance between the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information and the Fundamental Right to Personal Data Protection
whenever:

- The undistorted voice of the victim is necessary for the informational purpose.

- It considers that it did specify and justify the weighting of the conflicting interests in
his brief of May 25, 2022, criticizing that the proposed resolution indicates
there is no such justification.

- Regarding the lack of measures adopted by the court at the time of holding the hearing
oral indicates that "it has no doubts regarding the data processing that is being
analysing, nor who is responsible for it", but "to the extent that the
judicial body allowed the media free access to the courtroom
views and did not adopt or promote measures to prevent the dissemination of the voice of the
victim once distributed the audio, neither having requested the victim nor the ministry
fiscal measures of anonymization, it can be affirmed that there is no interference in the
rights of the victim, and that, considering the balance between the rights
faced, it can be concluded that the Right to Information would prevail.”

8.- In relation to the obligations of those responsible for the treatment, the party
claimed criticism that the motion for a resolution indicates that it is tremendously
It is significant that, as a result of the request of the AEPD, the voice of the
victim and that the information continues to be available and is maintained with all
its breadth, then, according to the defendant:

- "by distorting the voice, the information is not provided in all its amplitude, since it does not
the listener is allowed to know the effect that the prosecutor's attitude had on the victim.”

- He had no other possibility than to attend to the corrective measure imposed, reiterating in
that this "should not be interpreted as evidence that the treatment was not
necessary, but as an act of diligence by the person responsible at the request of the
supervisory authority, and that, in any case, it was the adoption of a
provisional measure, which should not prejudge the merits of the matter.”

9.- It considers the fine imposed by:

- The prior imposition of a measure contemplated in article 58 of the GDPR.

- The fine does not meet the criteria of article 83 of the GDPR because it is neither effective,
neither proportionate nor dissuasive:

a) It lacks effectiveness because every time "the treatment had already ceased
and, therefore, the cessation of a
treatment that was no longer given.”

b) It lacks deterrent capacity because "the administrative fine should
have the ability to induce this part to cease its purpose to continue
publishing the voice of the victim. However (...), since (...) said treatment no longer
It occurred as a consequence of the measure imposed by the AEPD to prohibit it.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/53

c) It is not proportional:

i) Because there is an indetermination of the initial amount on which
apply aggravating factors, as well as a lack of justification of the criteria and scales
used to quantify the penalty.

ii) Due to the incorrect application of the aggravating circumstances, reiterating in the

allegations made to the initiation agreement.

iii) A series of extenuating factors have not been taken into account:

o The video with the undistorted voice of the victim was
available for a few days, criticizing the fact that the motion for a resolution did not take into account
account this mitigation because the withdrawal of the video was not produced in a
spontaneous, since he considers that this aspect has nothing to do with the time that
was published (article 83.2.a) of the GDPR).

o “The purpose of the processing was none other than to inform of
completely newsworthy and current events, taking into account that
this part is a means of communication (…) (article 83.2.a) of the GDPR).”

one (article 83.2.a) of the GDPR).

o The number of interested parties affected by the treatment is

o No damages have been proven to the interested party as
direct or indirect consequence of the treatment carried out by the claimed party
(article 83.2.a) of the GDPR).

o There is no intention (article 83.2.b) of the GDPR).

o Lack of previous infractions committed (art 83.2.e) GDPR).

o Absolute cooperation with the supervisory authority (article

83.2.f) of the GDPR).

previously in application of article 58.2 of the GDPR (article 83.2.i) of the GDPR).

o Full and prompt compliance with the ordered corrective measure

o The status of communication medium of the claimed party
and the right to information recognized by the Spanish Constitution itself (article
83.2.k) of the GDPR).

o The video was provided by a media agency to which, at its discretion,
time, it had been provided by the court itself without adopting any concealment measure
or distortion of the victim's voice (article 83.2.k) of the GDPR).

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/53

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On ***DATE.1, the claimant filed a claim with the
AEPD denouncing that various media, including the part
claimed, published on their websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a
victim of a multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the celebration of the
trial in a case that was highly publicized, providing links to the news
published on the websites of the media claimed, being those related to the part
claimed:

- ***URL.1
- ***URL.2
- ***URL.3

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the complaining party was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter in which it was still available, including a tweet from the
claimed part.

SECOND: On ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

THIRD: Once the claim has been accepted for processing, the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection, in the exercise of its research activities, found
Respondent's postings where the victim's voice could be heard without
distort in the following directions:






***URL.2
 
 
***URL.4
 
 
***URL.5
 
 
***URL.1
 
 

FOURTH: Within the framework of the previous investigation actions, dated
***DATE.4, the party claimed was notified of an urgent precautionary measure to withdraw
content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that it would be
unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this content was accessible, in
concrete of:







***URL.2
 
 
***URL.4
 
 
***URL.5
 
 
***URL.6
***URL.1
 
 

FIFTH: With date ***DATE.4 the letter sent by the party was received in the AEPD
claimed informing that the videos had been removed from all

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/53

places of publication, distorting the voice of the intervener in those videos
that had been published.

SIXTH: It is proven in the report of previous actions of investigation of
dated January 24, 2022, which verified what was stated by the party claimed in
his letter of ***DATE.6, that is, that the tweets had been deleted and that in the link
***URL.1 had distorted the voice of the victim's statement in the video.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In advance, the claimed party refers, in its statement of allegations to the
initiation agreement, to the inadmissibility of the admission for processing of the claim that
has originated the present disciplinary procedure, since article 65.3 of the
LOPDGDD provides that the AEPD may reject the claim when the person responsible,
previous warning formulated by the competent authority, would have adopted the
corrective measures aimed at putting an end to possible non-compliance with the
data legislation.

In this regard, it should be noted that the "warning" referred to in article 65.3 of
The LOPDGDD is one of the corrective powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR grants
to the control authorities, specifically it is the one included in section a): "direct
to all controllers or processors a warning when the
planned treatment operations may infringe the provisions of this
Regulations” (emphasis added).

The foregoing assumes that the aforementioned warnings can be made by the authority
of control before data processing is carried out by the
responsible, which is not the case in the present case, where there has already been a
data processing such as the publication of the voice of the victim without distorting.

However, the claimed party considers, in its pleadings to the
motion for a resolution, that the foregoing is an incorrect interpretation of the
mentioned precept because from reading it "it does not follow that the
"warning" to which it refers is the one that the authority can
carry out before data processing is carried out.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/53

For this purpose, the defendant points out that article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD
"establishes that in order to reject the claim in application of said article it is
necessary that the person in charge or in charge has adopted the corrective measure that is
I have warned you (…)” (emphasis added).

Corrective measures are regulated in article 58.2 of the GDPR, which
sets the following:

"2. Each control authority will have all the corrective powers indicated in
continuation:

a) send a warning to all data controllers or processors when the
planned treatment operations may infringe the provisions of the Regulation;

b) send a warning to any person in charge or person in charge of the treatment when the
processing operations have infringed the provisions of this Regulation;

c) order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment to attend to the requests for
exercise of the rights of the interested party under this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

e) order the controller to notify the data subject of the violations
the security of personal data;

f) impose a temporary or permanent limitation of the treatment, including its prohibition;

g) order the rectification or deletion of personal data or the limitation of
treatment under articles 16, 17 and 18 and notification of such measures to
the recipients to whom personal data have been communicated in accordance with the
Article 17(2) and Article 19;

h) withdraw a certification or direct the certification body to withdraw a
certification issued in accordance with articles 42 and 43, or order the certification body
certification that a certification is not issued if they are not met or cease to be met
the requirements for certification;

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this paragraph, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;

j) order the suspension of data flows towards a recipient located in a
third country or towards an international organization.” (underlining is ours).

That is, the only warning that the control authorities can address to the
responsible or in charge of the treatment is regulated in section a) of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/53

article 58.2 of the RGPD, being the other corrective measures included in such
precept warnings, impositions or orders of the control authority.

The diction of article 58.2.a) of the GDPR makes clear mention of cases in which there is
Planned treatment operations that may infringe the provisions of the GDPR. Of
hence the warnings that the control authority can make to those responsible
or those in charge of the treatment have to be before such treatment is carried out,
since its purpose is to avoid possible future breaches of the regulations on
of data protection. And that article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD indicates "when the
responsible or in charge of the treatment, prior warning formulated by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency, would have adopted corrective measures
aimed at putting an end to possible non-compliance with the legislation for the protection of
data (…)” (emphasis added).

The aforementioned precept continues indicating that, in addition, "some of the
following circumstances:

a) That no harm has been caused to the affected party in the case of infringements
provided for in article 74 of this organic law.

b) That the right of the affected party is fully guaranteed through the application
of the measures."

For this reason, it considers the claimed party in its statement of allegations to the proposal of
resolution, that the assumption regulated in article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD "is the one in
which the treatment has already started”, because:

- "How else will there have been damage to the affected party as a result of
an infraction? If the treatment has not yet been carried out, it is impossible for it to
suppose a fraction and that said infraction has caused damage to the affected party.”

- "If we turn to the aforementioned article 74 of the GDPR, we see that the infractions collected
in it are infractions that require that the treatment has been initiated.”

- “it is unlikely that anyone can make a claim for a
treatment that has not yet been carried out.”

As indicated above, the warning can be directed by the control authority
when the processing of personal data is planned, but has not yet been
effected. The purpose of such a warning is that the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment carry out what has been warned in order to avoid a subsequent and possible
breach of data protection regulations. Subsequently, it will be put into
the processing of personal data is underway, from that moment on when
there may be affected by such treatment who present claims.

Presented a claim by an interested party, derived from the treatment that has already been carried out
carried out by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment, it can
be inadmissible by the AEPD, by virtue of article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD, if the prior
warning directed by the AEPD was taken into account by the person in charge or in charge

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/53

of the treatment, adopting the corrective measures provided in the aforementioned
warning.

This implies that the interested party claims as a consequence of the treatment carried out
carried out by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment; treatment carried out after
the warning issued by the AEPD.

It will also be necessary to deny that, in addition to having adopted the measures
corrections of the warning prior to the treatment, if any of the following
following circumstances, as indicated above:

- That no damage has been caused to the affected party in the case of the foreseen infractions
in article 74 of the LOPDGDD.

Article 74 of the LOPDGDD states that "They will be considered minor and will prescribe after one year.
the remaining infringements of a merely formal nature of the aforementioned articles
in sections 4 and 5 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. (The underline
is ours).

This implies that we have to find ourselves before an infraction classified as minor to
the effects of the prescription in the LOPDGDD, considered as such those
offenses typified in articles 83.4 and 83.5 of the GDPR that have a
merely formal. Therefore, infringements classified as very
serious or serious for the purposes of the prescription of articles 72 and 73 of the
LOPDGDD that do not have a merely formal character.

And all this without forgetting that such an offense classified as minor for the purposes of the
prescription of article 74 of the LOPDGDD must cause harm to the affected party
as a result of the treatment carried out.

- That the right of the affected party is fully guaranteed through the application
of measurements.

Thus, the application of the corrective measures derived from the warning directed
Prior to the start of the treatment, it ensures that the right of the
affected by further processing has been fully guaranteed.

In this way we can infer without a doubt that when a
warning there is no processing of personal data by the
responsible or the person in charge of the treatment. It is their subsequent treatment and a
eventual claim by the interested party as a consequence thereof, which may
determine the application of article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD.

Furthermore, it should be noted that the aforementioned article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD
states that "the Spanish Agency for Data Protection may reject the
claim", which means that it does not have the obligation to reject the claims
when the budgets regulated in such precept are given. For this purpose, it is necessary to bring
to collate the Judgment of the National Court of July 12, 2022 (rec.
601/2020): "The presentation of a claim before the Spanish Agency of
Data Protection does not determine, without more, the initiation of any of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/53

procedures contemplated in the LOPDGDD but, in accordance with the provisions of
article 65.1, the Agency is obliged (“must” says the legal text) to evaluate its
admissibility and is obliged to reject a certain class of claims (art.
65.2) or may reject others (art. 65.3).” (The underlining is ours).

In any case, in the present case there has not been a "warning", but rather a
request for urgent removal of content or distorted voice of the
intervening in such a way that it would be unidentifiable in the web addresses from which
make this content accessible.

In this regard, the claimed party indicated in its pleadings to the
beginning that "if we turn to the aforementioned Title VIII of the LOPDGDD, we observe that
expressly detail three different procedural moments in which the Agency
may agree to the adoption of measures”: before the admission for processing (article 65.3
of the LOPDGDD), before the adoption of the agreement to start the procedure and a
Once the claim has been admitted for processing (article 67.1 of the LOPDGDD) and a
procedure for the exercise of the sanctioning power (article 68 LOPDGDD).
Understanding that in this case "the adoption of prior or provisional measures
agreed prior to admission for processing, but the course was not followed
provided for in article 65.3 of the LOPDGDD.”

He makes such a statement because "On *** DATE.2, according to folio 10 of the file
and with reference E/05505/2021, it is indicated that in procedure E/05479/2021, the
AEPD "agreed to carry out these investigative actions in relation to
with the facts claimed."" And on ***DATE.3 the admission for processing of the
complaining party.

It goes on to indicate that "The report on pages 18 to 23 indicates that as
Result of the research actions are the publications
indicated in the complaint and in which the voice of the victim can be heard without
distort, proceeding for all those responsible for the treatment to the emission with
date ***DATE.5, of the resolution of provisional measure of urgent withdrawal of
content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that it would be
unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this content was accessible.”
Therefore, on ***DATE.4, the claimed party immediately proceeded to comply
such requirement, which was communicated to the AEPD on that same date.

With such argumentation, the claimed party tries to misrepresent reality. Therefore, it
makes it necessary to go on to a detailed examination of what happened between (…):

- ***DATE.2: The actions carried out on that date were intended to verify the
veracity of the denounced to be able to decide on the admission or not to process the
claim, in accordance with article 65.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that
"When a request is submitted to the Spanish Data Protection Agency
claim, it must assess its admissibility for processing (...)".

It is true, as stated by the defendant, that the report on previous actions
investigation indicates that on that date "the Spanish Data Protection Agency
agreed to carry out these investigative actions in relation to the
claimed facts”. Such actions were aimed at determining the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/53

admissibility or not of the claim presented, since on that same date the
complaining party submitted a second document in which it stated that it had been able to
verify that there were media outlets that had removed the audio from the
statement of the victim before the judge, although it accompanied publications made
by some media outlets on Twitter where it was still available,
among them, a tweet from the claimed party.

- ***DATE.3: Once the evaluation of admissibility for processing of the
claim presented by the claimant, the AEPD proceeded to admit it to
procedure "According to the preliminary information available" and "without prejudice to the
to be determined in the course of the processing.”

- ***DATE.5: A request for a provisional measure was issued “in exercise of the faculties
conferred by article 58 of the GDPR, and in accordance with the provisions of article 69 of
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights”, consisting of urgent withdrawal of content or
distorted voice of the victim.

In summary: The actions carried out by the AEPD on ***DATE.2 consisted of
a prior analysis of the admissibility of the claim. Once done, it is
admitted for processing on ***DATE.3. Subsequently, previous actions were carried out
investigation, in accordance with article 67 of the LOPDGDD, within which
found, in the case of the claimed party, more publications with the voice of the
victim without distorting those initially denounced. And once you start these
previous investigation actions, was when the measure requirement was issued
provisional, in accordance with article 69 of the LOPDGDD, to safeguard the
Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data of the victim.

For all of the foregoing, the previous allegations relating to the
violation of articles 64 and 65.3 of the LOPDGDD.

II

The claimed party indicates in its pleadings to the initiation agreement that the
This procedure was initiated by the claim made by A.A.A., not by a
claim made by the interested party, therefore, if rational evidence is found
of a possible violation of article 6.1 a) GDPR, the
administrative procedure on the initiative of the AEPD (...) and not as an admission
to process the complaint from a third party that does not justify what its legitimacy is, nor
proves in a verified way the existence of a violation of rights.”

In this regard, it should be noted that this disciplinary proceeding has been
initiated ex officio on May 3, 2022, in accordance with article 63 of the
LPACAP and article 68 of the LOPDGDD, there being no formal defect in the
processing of this procedure that may have produced any defenselessness
to the claimed party.

However, the claimed party, in its statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution, states that "it did not allege and does not allege now that the initiation of the procedure
has not been carried out ex officio, but rather all previous actions should

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/53

have been initiated on the EEPD's own initiative and not as a consequence of the
admission to processing of a claim submitted by a third party outside the
interested.”

Adding that "The fact that the disciplinary procedure is initiated
correctly does not make the form defect disappear from all performances
previous ones on which it is based and that, therefore, make it flawed
and it is null, and its file must be agreed."

It ends by indicating that it cannot be "understood that the agreement for admission to the
the claim, the previous actions carried out and the measure requirement
provisional issued are acts outside the present procedure, because far from it, they are
acts directly related to it, since this procedure is based on
the aforementioned claim and confirmation of the aforementioned provisional measure is the subject of the
same".

It is not possible to agree with the affirmation made by the claimed party with respect to the fact that the
admission to processing of the claim is not an act unrelated to this procedure,
since the disciplinary procedure begins with the start agreement, so the
actions carried out previously, are alien and previous acts. different question
is whether the admission for processing of the claim is null and void and if such nullity
contaminates the agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, as the party intends
claimed, since it derives from the above.

The Supreme Court Judgment of February 1, 1992 states that, "since
declared this Chamber ... not all the defects or infractions committed in the processing
of an administrative procedure have sufficient legal entity to cover a
annulment claim for formal cause, given that only very serious defects that
prevent the final act from reaching its end or that render the interested parties defenseless
may determine the voidability; constituting this a jurisprudential doctrine that
has been progressively reducing the vices that determine disability for
limit them to those that represent an effective, real and significant decrease in
guarantees (STS of April 15, 1996, RA 3276)".

In the present case, if the AEPD had processed the documents presented by Mr.
A.A.A. as complaints under article 62 of the LPACAP:

- It would have given rise to the AEPD acting, prior to the adoption of the agreement
initiation of the disciplinary procedure, "on their own initiative", in accordance with the
article 59 of the LPACAP (“the action derived from direct or indirect knowledge
of the circumstances, conduct or facts that are the object of the procedure by the body that
has been attributed the power of initiation.”)

- Likewise, it would have carried out the previous investigative actions that it has carried out.
carried out under article 67 of the LOPDGDD, after which it was verified that the
claimed party had published the voice of the victim without distortion, adopting the
corresponding provisional measures.

It is necessary to bring up the Judgment of the National Court of its Chamber of
Administrative Litigation, Section 1, of June 25, 2009 (rec. 638/2008), the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/53

which states that "this Chamber has reiterated on numerous occasions (SAN 3-8-2006,
Rec. 319/2004, for all), echoing the doctrine of the Constitutional Court,
In order for the procedural defect to lead to the nullity of the appealed act, it is necessary
that these are not mere procedural irregularities, but defects that
cause a situation of defenselessness of a material nature, not merely a formal one, this
is, that they have caused the appellant a real impairment of his right
defense, causing real and effective damage (SSTC 155/1988, of July 22,
212/1994, of July 13 and 78/1999, of April 26)”.

In other words, it is necessary for the interested party to see himself, in effect, in a situation of
defenselessness, it being necessary that the defenselessness be material and not merely formal
(Sentences of the Constitutional Court 90/1988, 181/1994, 314/1994, 15/1995,
126/1996, 86/1997 and 118/1997, among others), which implies that the aforementioned defect has
caused real and effective damage to the defendant in his possibilities of
defense (Sentences of the Constitutional Court 43/1989, 101/1990, 6/1992 and
105/1995, among others).

And in the case examined, there has not been a decrease in the exercise of the
right of defense of the claimed party, since it has been able to allege and prove throughout
of the disciplinary procedure what has been agreed upon by his right.

IV.

Indicates the claimed party in its pleadings to the proposed resolution
that "the measure of withdrawal or distortion of the voice and contents be agreed in (...) and the
The agreement to start the procedure will not take place until May 2022. The term
elapsed between one date and another is (...), time that exceeds the period of 15 days
which establishes article 56.2 of the LPACAP.

On the other hand, the Agreement to start the Disciplinary Procedure does not contain
express pronouncement on said measures, as required by article 56.2 of the
LPACAP.”

Considering the claimed party that what is stated is a defect of form for which
It is appropriate that this procedure be archived.

If we turn to article 56.2 of the LPACAP, invoked by the claimed party, we will see
that its literal tenor is the following:

"2. Before the initiation of the administrative procedure, the body competent to
initiate or instruct the procedure, ex officio or at the request of a party, in cases of
urgency that cannot be postponed and for the provisional protection of the interests involved,
may adopt in a reasoned way the provisional measures that are necessary and
provided. Provisional measures must be confirmed, modified or
raised in the agreement to initiate the procedure, which must be carried out
within the fifteen days following its adoption, which may be subject to
appropriate resource.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/53

In any case, said measures will be without effect if the procedure is not initiated in
said term or when the initiation agreement does not contain a pronouncement
expressed about them." (underlining is ours).

From the reading of the aforementioned precept it can be deduced that the adoption of the resolution of
commencement beyond fifteen days from the adoption of the provisional measures, as well as
such as the lack of express pronouncement on them in said initiation agreement,
it does not have the effect of annulling the disciplinary procedure for formal defect.

After all, we cannot forget that such measures are provisional in nature and their
purpose is, in this case, to safeguard the fundamental right to protection
of personal data, as expressed in article 69.1 of the LOPDGDD:

"During the carrying out of the previous investigation actions or initiated a
procedure for the exercise of sanctioning power, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection may reasonably agree on provisional measures
necessary and proportionate to safeguard the fundamental right to
Data Protection".

Along the same lines, the Supreme Court Judgment of November 14, 2007
indicates that the provisional measures “Constitute, therefore, provisional actions
that are adopted to protect the general interest, ordinarily within a
procedure, but also prior to its investigation when there are reasons
urgently. It is about avoiding that while a procedure is being instructed and finished
situations may be maintained that reduce or eliminate the real effectiveness of the decision
or resolution that was finally adopted.” (underlining is ours).

For these reasons, the allegation relating to non-compliance cannot be taken into account.
of article 56 of the LPACAP.

V

The claimed party, in its pleadings to the initiation agreement, makes a
criticizes the latter when he points out that "by weighing the conflicting interests and, taking into account
to the concurrent circumstances of this case, that is, the nature especially
sensitive personal data and the intense impact on the privacy of the victim,
[…]”; since the voice is not a sensitive data of those categorized as such in the article
9 of the GDPR.

Certainly, the voice is not a personal data of a special category of those collected in
Article 9 of the GDPR. But it is also true that the startup agreement in making such
manifestation, does not refer to the voice as sensitive data.

To understand it, it is necessary to transcribe literally and completely the paragraph where
contains the expression to be parsed:

"However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that
the treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/53

keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly publicized case, makes the victim clearly identifiable. By pondering the
conflicting interests and, considering the concurrent circumstances of this case,
that is, the especially sensitive nature of personal data and the intense
affectation of the privacy of the victim, the interest of the owner deserves greater protection
of the right to the protection of your personal data and that they are not disclosed in front of the
claimed public interest in its dissemination.”

We see, therefore, that the expression object of criticism by the defendant is part of the
of the story related to the balance between the right to freedom of information and the
right to data protection. And that when carrying out this consideration and referring to "the
especially sensitive nature of personal data” referred to data relating to
that the person has been the victim of a multiple rape, which is indeed of a
sensitive.

The claimed party considers, in its statement of allegations to the proposal of
resolution, that the qualification of the published content should not be taken into account
account by the AEPD at the time of sanctioning, notwithstanding that, it understands, such
contents are not considered "special" for the purposes of article 9 of the
GDPR.

As already indicated in the proposed resolution, Guidelines 04/2022 of the Committee
European Data Protection Committee on the calculation of administrative fines with
according to the RGPD, in its version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation,
indicate that "Regarding the requirement to take into account the categories of data
affected individuals (article 83, paragraph 2, letter g), of the GDPR), the GDPR highlights
clearly the types of data that deserve special protection and, therefore, a
stricter response in terms of fines. This refers, at least, to the
types of data contemplated in articles 9 and 10 of the GDPR, and to data that does not
fall within the scope of these articles whose dissemination causes damage or
immediate difficulties to the interested party.” Immediate damage which, in the present case, is the
certain risk of recognizing the victim of a violent crime and crime against integrity
sexual (multiple rape).

However, the claimed party, in its statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution, considers that the Guidelines of the
European Data Protection Committee on the calculation of administrative fines
in accordance with the GDPR, in its version of May 12, 2022, since it has not been
demonstrated that the interested party has suffered immediate or future damages or losses
due to the treatment carried out by the claimed party.

The thesis of the claimed party cannot be shared, because in the field of Law
Fundamental to the Protection of Personal Data, the important thing is if there is a risk
that someone who listens to the victim's voice without distorting identifies it, risk,
which in the present case is true.

Furthermore, the fact of having been the victim of a crime of this nature does
that is linked to her sexual life, despite the discrepancy in this regard

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/53

formulated by the defendant, since it is a verified fact that the victims of
Such experiences are marked for their subsequent relationships.

However, the claimed party, in its statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution, states that "it cannot be defended that by publishing the facts relating to
a violation is reported or information about future relationships is being processed
victim's sex."

Such an affirmation has never been defended, it has only been maintained, as has been
stated above, that being a victim of a sexual crime is linked to life
person's sexuality.

On the other hand, the claimed party considers, in its pleadings to the agreement
from the beginning, that "the qualification of the facts contained in the news and its affectation to
the fundamental rights to honor, privacy and self-image, of the victim would be
capable of being determined before the civil courts of justice, not being
In our opinion, it is the responsibility of the Control Authority to evaluate whether or not it has occurred,
a violation of the aforementioned rights.”

One cannot agree more with such an allegation, in fact, it is not the claim of the
AEPD evaluate whether or not there has been a violation of the aforementioned rights
fundamental, but if there has been a violation of the provisions of the GDPR and in
the LOPDGDD.

However, it is obvious that, at the point of need for the data to supply the
information, the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data and
The Fundamental Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to One's Own
Image intertwine.

SAW

The party claimed does not question that the voice is personal data, but that
It will only be so in some cases, specifically in those cases in which the
data allows individualization directly, associating with an individual
concrete.

In the first place, and without prejudice to its more detailed examination in the Fundamento
of Law XII of this resolution, it must be indicated that the voice of any person is
personal data and identifies it or makes it uniquely identifiable,
regardless of the number of people who can recognize it.

Thus, the voice fits perfectly into the definition of what is a character data
personnel of article 4.1) of the GDPR, verifying that the four
components indicated in Opinion 4/2007 of the Article 29 Working Group
on the concept of personal data: all information about a natural person
identified or identifiable. The reference to all information refers to the concept
broad definition of what constitutes personal data, which requires a
broad interpretation.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/53

In the present case examined, the victim's voice identifies her directly
in their environment (understood in a broad sense, encompassing the family and the social),
that, as determined in the aforementioned Opinion 4/2007, "it can be
consider a natural person "identified" when, within a group of
persons, it is "distinguished" from all other members of the group.

And it is clear that the voice of any person can make it be identified
at least by those who are part of the circle closest to the victim or may
meet her anyway. Let's imagine relatives or co-workers or
studies, social activities, etc. For this reason, the diffusion of the voice of the victim has
assumed the certain risk that it could have been identified by persons
who were unaware of their status as victims. Which is a particularly serious fact
in an event like the one that gives rise to the news.

In addition, the voice also makes the victim indirectly identifiable to a
larger segment of the population if combined with other data, even with
additional information, depending on the context in question. Again the Opinion
4/2007 clarifies that "In cases where, at first sight, the identifiers
available do not make it possible to single out a specific person, this person can still be
"identifiable", because that information combined with other data (whether the
responsible for their treatment is aware of them as if not) will allow
distinguish that person from others.

Let us also bear in mind that, in the case examined, there is a
easier to make the victim identifiable through his voice in response to the
circumstances of the event and the context in which it is made public: within the framework of
a highly publicized judicial procedure, continuously followed by various
media that provide information about the victim, his
environment, the violators, and the violation suffered (which makes up information
additional).

In this sense, recital 26 of the GDPR determines that "...To determine if
a natural person is identifiable, all means must be taken into account, such as the
singularization, which can reasonably be used by the data controller or
any other person to directly or indirectly identify the natural person.
To determine whether there is a reasonable probability that means will be used to
identify a natural person, all objective factors must be taken into account,
as well as the costs and time required for identification, taking into account both
the technology available at the time of treatment such as advances
technological…”

Let us remember once again that the purpose of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of
Personal Data is to protect people without ambiguity and without exception: such
protection should not decline in this case in response to the greater or lesser number of
people who can recognize the victim, the greater or lesser number of people
who have listened to the video of the victim's account with his undistorted voice, or the
subjective considerations about the ease or difficulty of identifying the victim who
is carried out by the data controller, even more so in this case, given that what has been
produced is the dissemination of a story from a victim of multiple rape.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/53

Furthermore, the considerations made by the claimed party with respect to
the elements that make it difficult to identify the victim through the dissemination of his
undistorted voice (intrinsic variability of speech data, the need for
prior contact with the speaker and the immediacy of removal of the original recording)
are subjective and irrelevant, since it would suffice for a small group of people,
or even a single person, recognized the victim through the news so that his
identity was compromised and even spread to other people. And it is that such
elements "could" make identification difficult, but in no way avoid it.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the claimed party states in its pleadings brief to the
proposed resolution, that "the AEPD cannot guarantee that said recognition
has taken place, since there is no proof in this regard.", therefore it considers that "it does not
can the authority sanction based on possibilities or probabilities, but
solely based on certain and proven facts, and there are no such facts in the case
particular that we are dealing with."

As we already indicated in the previous legal basis, what is important is not whether the
risk of the victim being recognized has materialized or not, but rather whether the
risk of being identified by someone listening to the victim's voice without distortion.
In other words, it makes no difference whether or not someone has identified the victim through his
voice, because the important thing is that there was a certain risk that someone would identify it,
which is a particularly serious fact in an event such as the one that gives rise to the
news.

VII

The claimed party states, in its pleadings to the agreement of
beginning, that the purpose of including the audio of the statement before the judge of the
victim was not to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was
very media, but "to draw the attention of the reader, and when necessary denounce, as
the prosecutor had conducted the interrogation in the first session of the trial, without any
empathy for the victim, forcing the young woman to recount what happened over and over again
that night, constantly interrupting her and forcing her to back off and go back to
explain the details of the attack when he had already told them.”

He points out that "video published without deep masking of the voice contributes to the
I report the ability to demonstrate the tension to which the victim was subjected in the
course of the interrogation, their reactions, their state of mind and, ultimately and as
makes the news explicit, verifying the prosecutor's lack of empathy, and the ignorance of the "evil
the drink she was going through has forced the young woman to reminisce over and over again
time the scenes of the rape delving into her suffering.”

Therefore, it considers that the voice of the victim was necessary for the purpose
informative, it does add value to the information echoed by the news,
therefore, consequently, it has complied with article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, since it does not
there has been excessive processing of personal data.

Currently, the claimed party maintains a video in its digital diary in which there are
fragments of the prosecutor's interrogation of the victim, the victim's voice being
distorted while his remains undistorted, an interrogation that,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/53

in turn, it is subtitled. These fragments are accompanied by comments from a
relative journalist, as indicated in the brief of allegations to the agreement of
beginning, to draw attention to the prosecutor's lack of empathy for the victim and generate a
debate on the processes of revictimization that victims of
these crimes.

Looking at the video, it becomes clear that the victim's voice is not necessary to
manage to convey to the listener the prosecutor's lack of empathy, it is enough to hear the questions
that he does to the victim, as well as the information that the journalist adds, which is
who really leads the listener to empathize with the victim and wonder about her
revictimization.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the party claimed points out in its pleadings to the
proposed resolution, that "there is a prevalent informational public interest in the
diffusion of the victim's voice, such as reflecting the anguish experienced by the
victim given the circumstances, anguish that would have been aggravated by the
Prosecutor's performance.", which is not achieved with the current video.

Reiterated jurisprudence, both from the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court,
states that "The constitutional protection of freedom of information and
expression reaches a maximum level when freedom is exercised by
information professionals through the institutionalized training vehicle
of public opinion, which is the press, understood in its broadest acceptance (STS
March 11, 2009, RC No. 1457/2006, SSTC 105/1990, of June 6, FJ 4).
(SSTS, First Chamber, Civil 15/2011, of January 31 (rec 1000/2008) and 806/2013,
of January 7 (rec 1845/2010), among others).

However, as has been pointed out throughout this proceeding, the same
jurisprudence has also indicated that the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not absolute and has a series of limits in relation to other rights
essential, being necessary in each case a weighting between such
Fundamental rights.

For this purpose, it is necessary to bring up the STS, from its First Civil Chamber,
272/2011, of April 11 (rec. 1747/2008), cited both in the initiation agreement and in
the proposed resolution of this procedure, which states that "b) The
trivial information is not protected (ATC 75/2006), but the fact of providing data is not
necessary in a rape case (full name, last initials,
the portal of the street where the victim lived) that have no community relevance, do not
they respect the reserve, they only seek to satisfy curiosity, they produce disturbances or
inconvenience and unnecessarily reveal aspects of personal and private life,
allowing neighbors, close people and relatives to fully identify the
victim and knowledge in great detail of a seriously injurious act
against their dignity (STC 185/2002) or about a disease that has no interest
public and directly affects the irreducible sphere of privacy and that is
reveals the effect of a pure joke or joke (STC 232/1993);" (the underlining is
our).

We have to mean that it is indifferent that the purpose of the means of communication to the
post the video with the victim's voice undistorted outside to show the anguish of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/53

this during the action of the prosecutor as well as denounce such action, because with the
diffusion of the voice of that person is put at risk of being identified by people who
They were unaware of their status as victims, a risk that should have been assessed by the
media and for which it is responsible.

Victims of sexual assaults, such as gang rape, have to face
the challenge of resuming his life once the trial is over, trying to overcome the
physical and psychological sequelae derived from the traumatic experience they have suffered.
In this sense, your environment plays a decisive role. Unfortunately, even today
produce situations in which they are stigmatized despite having been the
victims, sometimes even being forced to change their place of residence.

For this reason, it is essential to treat with the greatest care any personal data that
allows you to reveal your identity, prevent you from being recognized as a victim in your environment,
understood in a broad sense. Here the medium plays a decisive role.
communication, since the analysis of risks for the rights and freedoms that
carried out prior to publication, and that in the present case we are not aware of,
It is the last guarantee that the victim has.

VIII

The claimed party considers in its pleadings to the initiation agreement that in
In the present case, there is a balance between the Fundamental Right to Freedom
of Information and the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Character Data
Personal, because when weighing the conflicting interests, taking into account the
circumstances of the present case and the nature of the news object of reproach, it is
that is, the complaint of the prosecutor's actions and the non-existence of measures adopted by
the criminal court itself beyond the inclusion of a screen that hid the image
of the victim, it must be concluded that the right to information prevails, not
having produced real affectation to the privacy of the victim.

Since in the previous legal basis we have already referred to the fact that the
undistorted voice of the victim is not necessary for the informational purpose relating to
denounce the actions of the prosecutor, now we must focus on the rest of the issues
that the claimed party alleges to defend that there was a balance between the
mentioned fundamental rights.

On the one hand, it refers to the weighting of conflicting interests. but the part
claimed does not specify what such weighting consists of, it does not justify it.

Moreover, with respect to such supposed weighting, the claimed party mentions the
lack of affectation to the privacy of the victim, forgetting that the present
disciplinary proceedings have been initiated for the alleged violation of the Law
Fundamental to the Protection of Personal Data, a right that is the one that
should be considered, and not the Fundamental Right to Privacy.

On the other hand, the defendant refers to the lack of measures adopted by the
court at the time of holding the oral hearing.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/53

For this reason, and previously, we must clarify what is the data processing that
is being analyzed in this proceeding. For these purposes, the GDPR defines in
its article 4.2 the processing of personal data: "any operation or set of
operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data, whether
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration, organization,
structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation,
utilization,
 communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction”. (he
underlining is ours).

It is the diffusion of the voice of the victim that has been carried out by the claimed party that is
object of this procedure, not entering within the scope of this other
treatments, such as the recording of the oral and public trial carried out by the
court or the sending that it makes to the media of the material disseminated
by the claimed party.

Once the treatment to be analyzed is delimited, we must identify who is the
responsible for it.

Article 4.7) of the GDPR establishes that it is ""responsible for the treatment" or
"responsible": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other
body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of processing; Yeah
the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the aims and means of the
treatment, the person responsible for the treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by law of the Union or of the States
members;".

As established in Directives 07/2020 of the European Protection Committee
of Data on the concepts of data controller and manager in the
GDPR, the concept has five main components: "the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body”, “determines”, “alone or together with
others”, “the purposes and means” and “of the treatment”.

In addition, the concept of data controller is a broad concept, which deals with
to ensure effective and complete protection for the interested parties. It has determined so
the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. For all we will quote the
Judgment of the CJEU in the Google-Spain case of May 13, 2014, C-131/12, the
which considers in a broad sense the person responsible for the treatment to guarantee
“an effective and complete protection of the interested parties”.

It is clear that the claimed party is responsible for the treatment, when deciding on the
purposes and means of processing, as it holds the power to do so by having a
decisive influence on themselves. In this way, the purpose is informative and the
The media encompass decision-making power from the way it is distributed or made available
information available to the public, including its content. the middle of
communication has, in order to fulfill its purpose, once in the
exercise of his journalistic work has collected all the precise information, what
information provided and by what means, in what terms and with what personal data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/53

Thus, Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of data controller and
in charge in the RGPD specify that "the person in charge of the treatment is the party that
determines why the processing is taking place (i.e. “for what purpose” or “what for”) and
how this objective will be achieved (that is, what means will be used to achieve it)”.

The recording made by the court of the interrogation carried out on the victim within the
oral and public trial, as well as the subsequent transfer of the video of such a view with the voice without
misrepresenting the victim by the court to the news agencies, are other
treatment of data other than the one being analysed. Therefore, the court
has adopted as the only measure to protect the privacy of the victim the
inclusion of a screen to avoid its direct visualization and that the origin of the
information disseminated by the media has been the court is not
sufficient to exempt the claimed party from liability, because what is
is prosecuting is not the action of the court within the development of the process
court nor the provision of information by the court to the media
communication, but rather the processing for which the claimed party is responsible, such as
the dissemination of the personal data of the victim's voice.

As soon as the information reaches the media, the latter, as the person responsible for the
treatment, is responsible for complying with the data protection regulations, without
to be able to protect the breach of the same in the fact that the court, in the
development of the criminal process, did not adopt as a measure to protect the privacy of
the victim the distortion of his voice, nor can he be protected by the fact that the court
thus forwarded the information to the news agencies, assuming that such
forecasts allows you to publish it without paying attention to the requirements of the GDPR and the
LOPDGDD.

The transfer does not imply that it has to be the court that indicates to the media
communication how to proceed with the information material supplied, I will not
it is up to the court to give the instruction that the voice be distorted when
proceed to its dissemination, since they are the media, as responsible for the
treatment of multiple data that they know within the exercise of their work
journalistic, those who have to know and comply with the regulations regarding
data protection, applying, among them, the principle of data minimization
enshrined in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR.

What the media, in this case the defendant, do
subsequently with the information is not the responsibility of the court.

We will cite the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the matter
Fashion ID, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:2018:1039, ruling on a case where a
e-commerce company inserted into its website the social module "me
likes" of the social network Facebook, which implied that data was transmitted to it
Personal e-commerce company website visitors
regardless of whether the visitors were members of said social network or whether
They clicked on the “like” button on Facebook. In its section 74 it establishes that "In
change, and without prejudice to a possible civil liability provided for in the Law
national in this regard, said natural or legal person cannot be considered
responsible, within the meaning of that provision, for the previous operations or

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/53

later in the chain of treatment for which it does not determine the purposes or
the media".

In other words, any processing operation carried out within the scope of the part
claimed (in this case the dissemination of personal data on the occasion of the news)
must be attributed only to him, regardless of processing operations that are
previously carried out by other subjects and that, in no case, exempt you from your
responsibility.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the party claimed points out in its pleadings to the
proposed resolution that "has no doubts regarding the treatment of data that is
being analyzed, nor who is responsible for it", but "to the extent that
the judicial body allowed the media free access to the courtroom
views and did not adopt or promote measures to prevent the dissemination of the voice of the
victim once distributed the audio, neither having requested the victim nor the ministry
fiscal measures of anonymization, it can be affirmed that there is no interference in the
rights of the victim, and that, considering the balance between the rights
faced, it can be concluded that the Right to Information would prevail.”

As previously indicated, the treatment carried out by the organ
jurisdiction (and which is not the subject of this sanctioning file) is different from the
carried out by the claimed party, which implies that the weighting that they must bear
each other is different.

In the case of the court, the consideration of the rights and freedoms that
carried out seeks to protect the identity of the victim of a violent crime, without violating the
right to effective judicial protection of the defendants, within the development of a
Judicial procedement.

The access of the media to the hearing room is so that they
can exercise their Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information. so the
weighting that the court has carried out for the treatment of data in
judicial headquarters cannot substitute in any way for the weighting and
risk analysis that must be carried out by the party prior to publication
claimed, which we do not know. And we cannot forget that:

- The treatment carried out by the claimed party, unlike that carried out by the
court, is characterized by its durability over time, because once
published the news, it remains on the network, being possible to access its content
(and, in this case, to the voice of the victim) both through newspaper libraries and through
through search engines, as many times as you want and without limitation
temporary.

- Such treatment is also characterized, unlike that carried out by the organ
jurisdictional, due to its amplifying effect: as it is a means of communication that
facilitates information through the internet, making knowledge of that information accessible
information exponentially and ubiquitously.

In this sense, the STJUE of August 1, 2022 in case C-184/20 (OT and
Vyriausioji tanybinès etikos komisija) exposes the amplifying effect of the internet

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/53

indicating that "102 On the other hand, it is clear that this treatment leads to those
personal data are freely accessible on the Internet by the public as a whole
general and, as a result, by a potentially unlimited number of people.”

The information, including the voice of the victim, has been made available to a large
number of people, allowing access to it through any type of
electronic device, twenty-four hours a day and for an unlimited time. In
Consequently, the risk that the victim runs of being able to be recognized has been
increased exponentially.

- With the diffusion of the victim's voice, the victim is made identifiable, putting her in
a certain risk of being identified by people who did not know their status
victim, a risk that should have been assessed by the media and of which
it's responsible.

IX

On the other hand, it criticizes the party claimed in its pleadings to the agreement of
beginning, the invocation that it makes to the STS, of its First Civil Chamber, 661/2016,
of November 10 (rec. 3318/2014), in relation to the recruitment and dissemination in
trial of the image of a victim of gender violence since that case was
referred to the broadcast of close-up images of the appellant along with other information
that allowed the identification of the person, unlike what happens
in the present case, in which the defendant has omitted any other information
that would be excessive or superfluous.

We cannot share the opinion of the claimed party. To this end, let us examine the
mentioned sentence:

"1st) The interest of the questioned information is not discussed nor the right of the chain
television company sued to broadcast images recorded during the act of the oral trial of the
criminal case, since there is no limitation in this regard agreed by the body
judicial."

The same could be applied to the present case, that is to say, the interest of the
disputed information or the right of the media to disseminate the
statement of the victim during the act of the oral trial of the criminal case, since it did not
There is no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

"2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the identification of the applicant
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
shots of his face and the mention of his first name and place of residence, he was
also included in the fundamental right of the television channel
demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was limited by the
fundamental rights of the plaintiff to her personal privacy and to her own
image."

In the case that has given rise to this disciplinary procedure, point
controversial is whether the identification of the intervener as a victim of a crime against
sexual integrity by broadcasting the undistorted voice, is also

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/53

included in the fundamental right of the requested party to transmit information
truthful or, on the contrary, was limited by the Fundamental Right to Protection
of Personal Data.

"3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media.

In the case that we are analyzing, the claimed party should have acted prudently
of the diligent professional, identify the risk, assess it and adopt security measures
measures, avoiding the diffusion of the voice of the victim using procedures
technicians to distort the voice and prevent its recognition, as responsible for the
treatment, within the framework of the Fundamental Right to Data Protection of
Personal character.

Furthermore, in this case there is also additional information, as
as stated in the V Law Basis, which further facilitates the identification
of the victim through his voice, since we are referring to a procedure
high-profile court case, followed continuously by various media outlets
communication that provide information about the victim, their environment,
the rapists and the violation suffered. In fact, the claimed party itself acknowledges
that the data that have transcended capable of being attributed to the victim are his condition
as such, your sex, age and physical location at the time of the
facts.

"7th) The identification of the plaintiff through her image and personal data
indicated and its direct link to an episode of gender violence and other
serious crimes, when the simultaneous or subsequent disclosure of data was foreseeable
referring to how the victim and her aggressor met and how they happened
criminal acts, assumes that the loss of anonymity violates both the right

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/53

of the plaintiff in her own image, by issuing her physical features, such as her
personal and family privacy, to the extent that some reserved data,
pertaining to his private life (who went to the Internet to start a relationship or the
intimate content of some of his talks), devoid of offensive entity in a
situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment in which any
person who watched those news programs and who resided in the locality of the
victim could know who they were referring to, so that the psychological damage inherent in
his status as a victim of crimes was added to the non-material damage consisting of the fact that
knew information about his private life that he had not consented to make public.

In the present case, the identification of the victim by broadcasting his voice without
distort, the additional information previously exposed and its direct link
with a crime against sexual integrity, supposes the loss of the victim's anonymity
to the extent that such data make it possible to identify it from the moment it
anyone who knows her, listen to the video released by the claimed party. AND
This is based on the undoubted fact that the voice, by itself, already identifies it.

It also criticizes the claimed party in its pleadings to the start-up agreement on
reproach made by the AEPD regarding the lack of consent for the dissemination
of the voice data, since "it is not said legal basis that enables the media to
communication to process personal data of those who are the subject of news in exercise and
guarantee of the right to free information.”

The invocation of article 6.1.a) of the GDPR is made in the admission agreement to
processing of the claim and in the provisional measure requirement issued by the
AEPD on ***DATE.5, acts outside and prior to the procedure itself that is now
is processing.

The disciplinary procedure begins with the initiation agreement, which,
In accordance with article 64 of the LPACAP, it is the act where the
imputations based on the elements of judgment that are available.

And in the Basis of Law IV of the agreement to initiate this procedure
disciplinary measure, it is indicated that the Working Group of Article 29 in its Opinion
06/2014 on the concept of legitimate interest of the data controller
data under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the legal basis of the
legitimate interest of article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/CE, fully transferable to the
current art. 6.1.f) of the GDPR, includes the right to freedom of expression or
information as one of the cases in which the question of interest may arise
legitimate, asserting that "without prejudice to whether the interests of the person responsible for the
treatment will ultimately prevail over the interests and rights of the
interested when the balancing test is carried out”. So the reproach that
does the claimed part cannot be taken into account.

X

The claimed party, both in the pleadings to the start-up agreement and in the
pleadings to the proposed resolution, indicates that compliance with the
requirement of the AEPD to distort the voice of the victim "should not be interpreted
as evidence that the treatment was not necessary, but rather as an act of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/53

diligence of the person responsible at the request of the control authority, and that, in
In any case, it was the adoption of a provisional measure, which should not
prejudge the merits of the case."

At no time has it been interpreted that compliance with the requirement of the
AEPD by the claimed party implies that it acknowledges that the treatment was not
necessary. Rather, once the voice of the victim's statement was distorted in the
video of your digital page, the information is still available and is followed
supplying with all its breadth. What's more, it's not even necessary to get the
purpose of conveying to the listener the prosecutor's lack of empathy with the victim.

The foregoing is criticized by the claimed party in its pleadings to the
proposed resolution because "distorting the voice does not provide the information
in its full breadth, for the listener is not allowed to know the effect it had on the
victim the attitude of the prosecutor.”

As already indicated in the VII Legal Basis, it is irrelevant that the purpose
of the media by publishing the video with the voice of the victim without distorting
was to show the victim's reaction during the prosecutor's interrogation, because with the
spreading the voice puts you at risk of being identified by people who
They were unaware of their status as a victim.

eleventh

Finally, the claimed party, in its statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution, considers the fine imposed for the prior imposition of a
measure contemplated in article 58 of the GDPR.

To this end, it should be noted that the imposition of a corrective measure of the
regulated in article 58 of the GDPR does not imply that it is not possible, subsequently,
impose a fine.

For this purpose, article 58.2. i) of the GDPR states that the control authority may
“impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular". (underlining is ours).

While article 83.2 of the GDPR indicates that "Administrative fines are
will impose, depending on the circumstances of each individual case, additionally
or substitute for the measures referred to in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and
j).” (underlining is ours).

It continues indicating the claimed party in its brief of allegations to the proposal of
resolution that the fine does not meet the criteria of article 83 of the GDPR because it is not
neither effective, nor proportionate nor dissuasive.

The defendant considers that the fine is ineffective because "the
treatment had already ceased and therefore could not be achieved with such a measure
administrative cessation of a treatment that was no longer given.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/53

The interpretation of the claimed party cannot be shared whenever, as
We have indicated, the GDPR allows the imposition of administrative fines
addition to corrective measures. In fact, recital 148 of the GDPR states
that "In order to reinforce the application of the rules of this Regulation, any
Violation of this must be punished with sanctions, including administrative fines,
in addition to appropriate measures imposed by the control authority in
under this Regulation, or in substitution of these.”

Likewise, the Guidelines of the Article 29 Working Group on the application and
setting of administrative fines for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 3
of October 2017, provide that "Like all corrective measures in general,
administrative fines must adequately respond to the nature,
seriousness and consequences of the violation, and the control authorities must
evaluate all the facts of the case in a consistent and objective manner
justified. The assessment of what is effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each
case should also reflect the objective pursued by the corrective measure
selected, either restoring regulatory compliance or punishing a
unlawful behavior (or both)”.

On the other hand, the defendant considers that the fine lacks capacity
deterrent because "it should have the ability to induce this party to cease its
purpose of continuing to publish the voice of the victim. However (...), since (...) said
treatment was no longer given as a consequence of the measure imposed by the AEPD of
prohibit it.”

Nor can this interpretation made by the claimed party be shared. to such
effect, it is necessary to take into account the Directives 04/2022 of the European Committee of
Data Protection on the calculation of administrative fines in accordance with the
GDPR, in its version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation, which
state that “a deterrent fine is one that has a genuine deterrent effect.
In this regard, a distinction can be made between general deterrence (dissuading others from
commit the same offense in the future) and specific deterrence (dissuade the
recipient of the fine to commit the same offense again). By imposing a
fine, the supervisory authority takes into account both general and
specific.

(…) Whoever commits an infraction must fear that they will be fined.”

In the same sense, the CJEU Judgment in the Versalis Spa case, of June 13
of 2013, C-511/11, indicates that the "dissuasive nature may have as its objective not only
a "general deterrence", defined as an action to discourage all
companies, in general, that commit the infringement in question, but also a
'specific deterrence', consisting of dissuading the specific defendant from
break the rules again in the future.”

Lastly, the defendant considers that the fine is not proportional:

1.- Because there is an indetermination of the initial amount on which to apply the
aggravating factors, as well as a lack of justification of the criteria and scales used
to quantify the penalty.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/53

The aforementioned article 83.2 of the GDPR states that "administrative fines are
will impose, depending on the circumstances of each individual case, additionally
or substitute for the measures referred to in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and
j). When deciding the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount in each case
will be duly taken into account:” (emphasis added). That is, foresee
the assessment of the sanction as a whole taking into account each and every one of the
concurrent circumstances in the specific case and that are provided for in the
mentioned precept.

The jurisprudence pronounces itself along the same lines when it refers to the principle of
proportionality, "fundamental principle that beats and presides over the graduation process
of sanctions and implies, in legal terms, "its adequacy to the seriousness of the
fact constituting the infringement" as provided in article 29.3 of Law 40/2015,
of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, given that any sanction must be determined in
consistency with the entity of the offense committed and according to a criterion of
proportionality in relation to the circumstances of the fact.” (Sentences of the
Supreme Court of December 3, 2008 (rec. 6602/2004) and April 12, 2012
(rec. 5149/2009) and Judgment of the National Court of May 5, 2021 (rec.
1437/2020), among others).

Thus, the Judgment of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, dated May 27,
2003 (rec. 3725/1999), indicates that "Proportionality, pertaining specifically to
to the scope of the sanction, constitutes one of the principles that govern the Law
Sanctioning administrative, and represents an instrument of control of the exercise of the
disciplinary power by the Administration within, even, the margins that, in
principle, indicates the applicable rule for such exercise. It is certainly a concept
difficult to determine a priori, but which tends to adjust the sanction, by establishing
its specific graduation within the indicated possible margins, to the severity of the
act constituting the infringement, both in its aspect of illegality and of the
guilt, weighing as a whole the objective and subjective circumstances that
they integrate the budget of punishable fact (…)”

We can also cite for this purpose the Supreme Court Judgment 713/2019, of 29
of May (rec. 1857/2018): "We will begin by pointing out that the proportionality of the
sanctions implies that they come tempered to the particular gravity
of the fact in conjunction with the circumstances of a subjective nature (which refer to the
offender) and objective (which refer to the typical fact) being that in the field of law
administrative sanction in general and in the field of the stock market in
In particular, there are no dosimetry criteria similar to those included in the article
66 of the CP and that the modifying circumstances differ from those of the scope
penal. Let us remember that there is no room for automatic application, without any qualification of the
guiding principles of criminal law to the sanctioning administrative procedure
(S.TS 6-10-2003 Rec.772/1998).”

For this reason, Directives 04/2022 of the European Committee for Data Protection on the
calculation of administrative fines in accordance with the RGPD, in its version of 12
May 2022, submitted to public consultation, indicate that "As regards the
evaluation of these elements, increases or decreases in a fine do not
They can be previously determined through tables or percentages. It is reiterated that the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/53

The actual quantification of the fine will depend on all the elements collected during the
research and other considerations also related to the experiences
of the supervisory authority regarding fines.”

2.- The defendant also considers that the fine is not proportional due to the
incorrect application of the aggravating circumstances, specifically referring to the
sensitive of the data of the voice, to which we have referred in the Fundamental of Law
VII and to which we refer.

3.- Finally, the defendant considers that the fine is not proportional because
A series of extenuating factors have not been taken into account:

a) The video with the undistorted voice of the victim was available for a few days
(article 83.2.a) of the GDPR).

As already indicated in the proposed resolution, when analyzing the case, we found that
the video was posted on ***DATE.7, acknowledging the removal of the
itself and the distortion of the voice in the digital newspaper of the party claimed the
***DATE.4, the day the order to remove the content was notified. Is
In other words, the video with the undistorted voice of the victim was available for a
month and a few days

Bearing in mind that time is a relative concept, in the present case it is not
You can share the allegation that the content was published for a short time, since
the video with the undistorted voice of the victim was published the same day that it took place
the newsworthy fact, being available until the AEPD notified the party
demanded the aforementioned requirement, which shows that the measure of
removal of the content did not derive from a spontaneous action of the claimed party.

For this purpose, it is necessary to take into account the Guidelines 04/2022 of the Committee
European Data Protection Committee on the calculation of administrative fines with
according to the RGPD, in its version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation,
which state that "The measures adopted must be evaluated, in particular, in
relation to the element of opportunity, that is, the moment in which they are applied
by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, and its effectiveness. In this sense, it is more
It is likely that measures applied spontaneously before the start of the
investigation of the control authority are known by the person in charge or the
in charge of the treatment that the measures that have been applied after that
moment."

However, the foregoing is criticized by the defendant in its writ of
allegations to the motion for a resolution because it considers that spontaneity in the
Withdrawal of the video has nothing to do with how long it was published.

But if we go back to the aforementioned Directives 04/022, we see that not only
contemplate the opportunity criterion for the purpose of evaluating the duration criterion
temporary as mitigating, but also the effectiveness of the measure adopted.

Since the greatest impact of a piece of news occurs in the first moments
in which the newsworthy event takes place, and in the present case the voice of the victim without

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/53

distort was available for a month and a few days, it cannot be understood that
it was there for such a short time as to consider the duration of the infringement
as a mitigation.

b) The claimed party also considers the purpose of the processing a mitigation,
that "it was none other than reporting some completely newsworthy facts and
present, taking into account that this part is a means of communication
(…) (article 83.2.a) of the GDPR)”.

We have already referred to the informative purpose of the media in the
Foundation of Law VII, to which we refer.

c) The number of interested parties affected by the treatment is one (article 83.2.a) of the
GDPR).

It is true that the number of victims is one. But article 83.2.a) of the GDPR
invoked by the claimed party includes more aspects than the number of injured parties
for the infringement: the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation and the
level of damages that have been caused.

In the present case, it is considered that the nature of the infringement is very serious
since it entails a loss of disposition and control over the personal data of your
voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and against integrity
sexual and that when disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk that it could be
recognized by third parties.

Such aspects are so important in themselves that, within what is the
circumstance of article 83.2.a) of the GDPR, must have more weight in the graduation
of the offense than the mere fact that the injured party is a person.

d) No damages or losses have been proven to the interested party as a direct consequence
or indirect treatment carried out by the claimed party (article 83.2.a) of the
GDPR).

As we have just said, and we have already indicated in Fundamentals of Law V and VI, the
damages that have been caused to the victim as a result of the
publication of your undistorted voice is the certain risk that someone will identify you,
the materialization of such risk being indifferent.

e) There is no intention (article 83.2.b) of the GDPR).

Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR not only refers to the circumstances of the
intentionality, but also negligence.

In this regard, as already indicated in the motion for a resolution, it is necessary to invoke the
Judgment of the National Court of October 17, 2007 (rec. 63/2006) which
points out, in relation to entities whose activity entails a continuous
treatment of customer data, that: "(...) the Supreme Court has understood that
recklessness exists whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is,
when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the evaluation of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/53

degree of diligence, the professionalism or not of the subject must be specially considered,
and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined, when the activity of the
recurring is constant and abundant handling of personal data must
insist on the rigor and the exquisite care to adjust to the legal preventions to the
regard".

f) Lack of previous infractions committed (art 83.2.e) RGPD).

In this regard, the Judgment of the National Court, of May 5, 2021, rec.
1437/2020, provides us with the answer: "It considers, on the other hand, that it should
The non-commission of a previous infraction can be appreciated as mitigating. well, the
Article 83.2 of the GDPR establishes that it must be taken into account for the imposition of the
administrative fine, among others, the circumstance "e) any previous offense committed
by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment". It is a circumstance
aggravating, the fact that the budget for its application does not meet entails
that cannot be taken into consideration, but does not imply or allow, as it claims
the plaintiff, its application as mitigation”.

g) Absolute cooperation with the control authority (article 83.2.f) of the GDPR).

Nor can this aspect be considered a mitigating factor, since the orders of
withdrawal that it issues are mandatory in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 69 of the LOPDGDD.

To this end, it is necessary to take into account the Guidelines of the Working Group of the
Article 29 on the application and setting of administrative fines for the purposes of
Regulation 2016/679, approved on October 3, 2017, which states that
“That said, it would not be appropriate to take into account in addition the cooperation that the
law requires; for example, in any case the entity is required to allow the authority of
control access to the facilities to carry out audits or inspections”.

In the same sense, Directives 04/2022 of the European Committee for the Protection of
Data on the calculation of administrative fines in accordance with the GDPR, in its
version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation, indicate that "it must be
consider that the ordinary duty of cooperation is obligatory and, therefore, must be
considered neutral (and not a mitigating factor).”

Therefore, we can conclude that "cooperation" cannot be understood as that which
is required or mandatory by law for the person responsible for the
treatment; as it happened in this case.

h) Full and prompt compliance with the corrective measure previously ordered in
application of article 58.2 of the GDPR (article 83.2.i) of the GDPR).

However, this circumstance cannot be considered as mitigating, despite
full and prompt compliance with the ordered corrective measure, since this
action, required by law and valued on a case-by-case basis to be able to consider it or not
as mitigating, can only be considered as such if measures have been adopted
additional beyond those ordered by the control authority.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/53

In fact, Directives 04/2022 of the European Committee for Data Protection on the
calculation of administrative fines in accordance with the RGPD, in its version of 12
May 2022, submitted to public consultation, state that "In this regard, the
controller or processor may have reasonable expectations of
that compliance with the measures previously taken against them would prevent them from
in the future there would be a violation of the same object. However, since the
compliance with previously ordered measures is mandatory for the controller
or data processor, should not be considered as a mitigating factor per se.
On the contrary, a reinforced commitment is required on the part of the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment in compliance with the previous measures so that this
factor is applied as a mitigation, for example, the adoption of additional measures
beyond those ordered by the control authority.”

i) The condition of communication media of the claimed party and the right to
information recognized by the Spanish Constitution itself (article 83.2.k) of the
GDPR).

As has been indicated throughout the processing of this procedure
disciplinary action, and will be developed later in the Fundament of Law XVI, not
it is about the prevalence of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information or the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Character Data
Personal, but to find a balance between both to achieve the achievement of the
purpose of the second without undermining the first.

In greater abundance it is necessary to highlight, as already exposed both in the
resolution proposal as in the initiation agreement, that the media
communication habitually distort the voice so that it is not
recognize the person speaking.

j) The video was provided by a media agency to which, in turn, it had been sent.
provided by the court itself without adopting any measure of concealment or distortion of the
voice of the victim (article 83.2.k) of the GDPR).

We have already stated in Law Foundation VIII that the recording made by the
court of the interrogation carried out on the victim within the oral and public trial, as well as
as the subsequent transfer of the video of such a view with the undistorted voice of the victim
by the court to the news agencies, are different data treatments
to the object of this proceeding. And that it is not the responsibility of the court or of
the news agency what the claimed party subsequently does with the
information that they provide.

For all the foregoing, all the allegations made by the party are dismissed.
claimed both to the initiation agreement and to the resolution proposal.
.

twelfth

The voice of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is personal data
make it identifiable, and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said GDPR:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/53

“Personal data”: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each physical person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin, his hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of the expression, the idiolect or the intonation, are also data of
personal character considered together with the voice.

For this reason, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency states that "the
image, as well as the voice of a person is personal data, as will be
any information that makes it possible to determine, directly or indirectly, your identity
(…)”

In fact, the National Court Judgment dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes data of a personal nature, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
as
"any information concerning identified or identifiable natural persons",
This question is not controversial."

Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines "processing" as: "any operation or set of
of operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data,
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction.”

The inclusion of a person's voice in journalistic publications, which identifies or
makes a person identifiable, implies a processing of personal data and, therefore,
Therefore, the person responsible for the treatment that carries out the same is obliged to comply with
the obligations for the data controller set forth in the GDPR and in
the LOPDGDD.

XIII

This procedure was initiated because the claimed party published, on the websites
website referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of
a multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a
case that was very mediatic. The victim's voice could be seen clearly
recount in all crude details the multiple rape suffered. All this constitutes
processing of personal data of the victim.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/53

People have the power of disposal over their personal data, including
his voice, as well as its diffusion, resulting, without a doubt, deserving of
protection of the person whose personal data is disclosed in violation of the law
legal.

Thus, STC 292/2000, of November 30, provides that "the content of the right
Fundamental to data protection consists of a power of disposal and control
on personal data that empowers the person to decide which of those data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or which can this third party
collect, and which also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These powers of disposition and
control over personal data, which constitute part of the content of the right
fundamental to data protection are legally specified in the power to
consent to the collection, obtaining and access to personal data, its subsequent
storage and treatment, as well as its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the
state or an individual. And that right to consent to knowledge and treatment,
computerized or not, of personal data, requires as complements
essential, on the one hand, the ability to know at all times who has
these personal data and to what use you are submitting them, and, on the other hand, the power
oppose such possession and uses”.

In this sense, and regardless of the legal basis legitimizing the
treatment, all controllers must respect the principles of
treatment included in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR which establishes that:

"1. Personal data will be

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");"

However, we are faced with a fundamental right that is not absolute,
since, if necessary, the Fundamental Right to Data Protection can
give in to the prevalence of other rights and freedoms also constitutionally
recognized and protected, such as, for example, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information, weighing it on a case-by-case basis.

However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that the
treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly publicized case, makes the victim clearly identifiable. By pondering the
conflicting interests and, considering the concurrent circumstances of this case,
that is, the especially sensitive nature of personal data and the intense
affectation of the privacy of the victim, the interest of the owner deserves greater protection
of the right to the protection of your personal data and that they are not disclosed in front of the
claimed public interest in its dissemination.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/53

fourteenth

In the struggle between the Fundamental Rights to Freedom of Information in
relation to the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, even
when an equal degree of protection is recognized for both constitutional rights,
ordinarily the first is usually endowed with prevalence by our courts, after
assess and weigh all the elements at stake.

However, preponderance does not mean prevalence when, after all the
concurrent circumstances in a specific case, the limits set are exceeded
normatively and jurisprudentially.

In this sense, the Article 29 Working Group in its Opinion 06/2014 on the
concept of legitimate interest of the data controller under the
Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the legal basis of the legitimate interest of the
Article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/CE, fully transferable to the current art. 6.1.f) of
GDPR, includes the right to freedom of expression or information as one of the
cases in which the question of legitimate interest may arise, stating that "without
regardless of whether the interests of the data controller will ultimately prevail
term on the interests and rights of the interested parties when the
weighing test”.

fifteenth

That said, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information is not
absolute. We can observe very clear limits established by the courts in the
civil sphere, in relation to the Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
the Image itself.

Thus, we will cite, for all, STC 27/2020, of February 24 (amparo appeal 1369-
2017) that it has, in relation to the image of a person, and based on the fact
uncontroversial that it makes it identifiable, that “…the debated question is reduced to
consider whether the non-consensual reproduction of the image of an anonymous person is
that is, of someone who is not a public figure, but who suddenly and
involuntarily a role in the newsworthy event, in this case as a victim of
failed attempted murder by his brother and his subsequent suicide,
implied an illegitimate interference in their fundamental right to their own image (art.
18.1 CE).

[…]

…that criminal events are newsworthy events, even with
regardless of the character of private subject of the person affected by the news. Without
However, the limit is in the individualization, direct or indirect, of the victim, since
This data is not of public interest because it lacks relevance for the information
that is allowed to be transmitted (SSTC 20/1992, of February 20; 219/1992, of
December; 232/1993, of July 12; 52/2002, of February 25; 121/2002, of 20
May, and 127/2003, of June 30). Thus, it is currently recognized by Law 4/2015, of 27
April, of the crime victim statute, in force since October 28, 2015,
when he warns of the need "from the public authorities [to offer] a

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/53

response as broad as possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims,
not only repairing the damage in the framework of a criminal proceeding, but also
minimizing other traumatic effects on the moral that his condition can
generate, all this regardless of their procedural situation. Therefore, the present
Statute, in line with European regulations on the matter and with the demands that
raises our society, claims, based on the recognition of the dignity of
victims, the defense of their material and moral assets and, with it, those of the group of
the society". In cases such as those raised in this appeal, this Court must
give relevance to the prevalence of the right to the image of the victim of the crime
against information freedoms, since graphic information became idle or
superfluous because the photograph of the victim lacks real interest for the transmission of
the information, in this case the apparent accomplishment of a homicide and subsequent
suicide” (emphasis added).

We will add the STS, from its First Civil Chamber, 272/2011, of April 11 (rec.
1747/2008), in which, regarding the data necessary to provide a
information and limits to the public interest states that "b) Trivial information is not
protects (ATC 75/2006), but the fact of providing unnecessary data in a case of
rape (full name, last name initials, street portal where
the victim lived) that have no community relevance, do not respect the reservation, only
seek to satisfy curiosity, produce disturbances or annoyances, and reveal
aspects of personal and private life unnecessarily, allowing neighbors,
close people and relatives full identification of the victim and knowledge
in great detail about an act that seriously violated his dignity (STC
185/2002) or about a disease that has no public interest and affects
direct to the irreducible field of intimacy and that reveals itself to the effect of a pure
joke or joke (STC 232/1993);”.

Likewise, the STS, of its First Civil Chamber, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec.
3318/2014), in relation to the capture and dissemination in court of the image of a
victim of gender violence provided that "1.) The interest of the
disputed information or the right of the defendant television station to broadcast
images recorded during the act of the oral trial of the criminal case, since there is no record
no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the applicant's identification
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
shots of his face and the mention of his first name and place of residence, he was
also included in the fundamental right of the television channel
demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was limited by the
fundamental rights of the plaintiff to her personal privacy and to her own
image.

3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/53

nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media. 7th) The identification of the plaintiff through his
image and personal data indicated and its direct link to an episode of
gender violence and other serious crimes, when disclosure was foreseeable
Simultaneous or subsequent data referring to how the victim and her aggressor met
and the way in which the criminal acts occurred, supposes that the loss of the
anonymity would violate both the plaintiff's right to her own image, by the
broadcast of their physical features, such as their personal and family intimacy, to the extent that
that some reserved data, belonging to his private life (who went to the Internet
to start a relationship or the intimate content of some of their talks), lacking
offensive entity in a situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment
in which any person who watched those news programs and who resided in the
location of the victim could know who they were referring to, so that the damage
psychological damage inherent to his condition as a victim of crimes was added to the moral damage
consisting of the disclosure of information about his private life that he had not consented to
make public." (underlining is ours).

As we can see, a clear reference is made to the excessive treatment of
personal data (some of which are not of an intimate nature) to provide the
information, considering them unnecessary at all points in attention to the
concurrent circumstances. Sometimes the courts refer to intimate data,
but sometimes it is personal data that is not intimate, such as, for
For example, the image of a natural person obtained from a photograph published in a
social network or name and surname.

16th

In the specific case examined, as we have indicated, the claimed party
published, on the websites referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the
judge of a victim of multiple rape, to illustrate the news of a very
media.

Thus, it is not a question, as in other cases examined by jurisprudence, of endowing
of prevalence to a fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more
weight in a specific case. If not, rather, to find a balance between
both to achieve the achievement of the purpose of the first without undermining the second.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/53

The reconciliation of both rights is nothing new, since the legislator
European Union mandates such reconciliation in article 85 of the GDPR.

As we have seen previously, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not unlimited, since the jurisprudential interpretation when confronting it
with other rights and freedoms does not allow the same in any case and with all breadth,
but, nevertheless, the prevalence that the courts usually endow it can be seen
limited by other fundamental rights that must also be respected. Thus
observes its limitation when the personal data provided was unnecessary for the
essence of the information content.

We must consider the special circumstances present in the supposed
examined. It is about a woman from (…) who has suffered a multiple rape. In the
published recording, she is heard recounting, with great emotional charge, the aggression
sexuality suffered in all crudeness, narrating (...).

In addition, we cannot lose sight of the victim status of the woman whose voice, with
all the nuances exposed, has spread.

Let us remember, for merely illustrative purposes, that Law 4/2015, of April 27,
of the Statute of the victim of crime, as well as the recent Organic Law 10/2022, of 6
of September, of integral guarantee of sexual freedom, foresee a special
need to protect victims of crimes against sexual freedom or
sexual indemnity. In addition, the aforementioned Statute of the victim of crime
it also provides special protection for victims of violent crimes. and in the
case examined both circumstances concur.

In this case, the situation of the victim must be considered (who is not in the
same level of equality as the defendants) and what the diffusion of their voice with
all its nuances, as well as the special protection that the
legal system that, without constraining the supply of information, must be done
compatible with the principle of data minimization, applicable to the form, the
medium in which the information is supplied and disseminated due to the immediate affectation of the data
personnel and the identification of the victim.

Precisely because the obvious informative public interest in the news is not denied,
Given the general interest in criminal cases, in this specific case, it is not a question of
to diminish the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information due to the prevalence
of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, but of
make them fully compatible so that both are absolutely
guaranteed. That is, the freedom of information of the media is not questioned.
of communication but the weighting with the right to data protection based on
to the proportionality and need to publish the specific personal data of the voice. Such
situation could have been resolved with the use of technical procedures to
prevent voice recognition, such as, for example, distortion of the voice of
the victim or the transcript of the report of the multiple rape, security measures
both, applied depending on the case in an ordinary way by means of
communication.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/53

At older we have to mean that the victim is an anonymous person and our
Constitutional Court, for all the STC 58/2018, of June 4, affirms that the
public authorities, public officials and public figures or those dedicated to
activities that carry public notoriety “voluntarily accept the risk of
that their subjective personality rights are affected by criticism, opinions
or adverse disclosures and, therefore, the right to information reaches, in relation to
with them, its maximum level of legitimizing effectiveness, insofar as their life and conduct
morality participate in the general interest with a greater intensity than that of those
private persons who, without a vocation for public projection, see themselves
circumstantially involved in matters of public importance, to which
Therefore, a higher level of privacy must be recognized, which prevents
granting general importance to facts or behaviors that would have it if they were referred to
to public figures".

The STJUE (Second Chamber) of February 14, 2019, in case C 345/17, Sergejs
Buivids, mentions various criteria to ponder between the right to respect
of privacy and the right to freedom of expression, among which are
“the contribution to a debate of general interest, the notoriety of the affected person,
the object of the report, the previous behavior of the interested party, the content, the
form and the repercussions of the publication, the form and the circumstances in which it is
obtained information and its veracity (see, in this regard, the judgment of the ECtHR of
June 27, 2017, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi Oy and Satamedia Oy v. Finland,
CE:ECHR:2017:0627JUD000093113, section 165)”.

In such a way that for a matter to be considered of general interest,
public relevance, they will be not only for the person who intervenes, but also for the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must concur, resulting, at greater
abundance of what was meant in the previous section, that in the case examined
the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is of great interest that
is recognized by third parties, so it may entail a new penalty
to the already suffered The victim is an anonymous person and must remain so, in such a way that
so that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed.

In the present case, (i) we are not dealing with a figure of public relevance, in which
sense that such relevance is sufficient to understand that it supposes, ex lege, a
dispossession of your fundamental right to the protection of your personal data, and (ii)
although we are dealing with facts "of public relevance", in the sense that they are revealed
as "necessary" for the presentation of ideas or opinions of public interest, that
necessity does not reach the provision of data that identifies the victim.

For this reason, and as expressed by the Supreme Court in its (civil) Judgment 697/2019, of 19
December, the formation of a free public opinion does not require, nor does it justify, the
affects the fundamental right to one's own image [in this case to the protection of
personal data] with that seriousness and in a way that does not save the necessary
connection with the identification of the person object of the information.

It is worth mentioning the breach of point 1 of the Digital Pact for the
protection of persons, signed by the entity involved, which establishes that "The
signatories to the Charter will refrain from identifying in any way the victims of
assaults, acts of violence or sexual content in their information or

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/53

publish information from which, in general, your identity can be inferred
in the case of people of no public relevance. All this without prejudice to the fact that the
non-public persons may be involved in newsworthy events, in which case
the informative coverage will be the necessary one to give adequate fulfillment to the right
information, taking into account the peculiarities of each case".

seventeenth

Every person responsible for the treatment has conferred obligations in terms of
data protection, in the terms prescribed in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD,
being able to highlight, in terms of what interests us, proactive responsibility,
Article 5.2 of the GDPR, risk assessment and implementation of measures
of adequate security. Obligations that are even more relevant when, as in
In the case we are examining, this one is especially sensitive.

Such obligations do not decline because we are before a data controller
that it is a means of communication.

If we add the diffusion of the victim's voice (with all its nuances), which makes it
identifiable and can be recognized by third parties, with the factual account that makes
in relation to the violation suffered, there is a very high and very likely risk that
may suffer damage to their rights and freedoms. This has happened in other cases
of dissemination of personal data of victims of rape crimes. And this, in addition to
that with the diffusion of the voice of the victim she is being sentenced again to
can be recognized by third parties, when it is not a proportional treatment or
necessary in relation to the information purposes pursued.

It is tremendously significant that, in the case examined, the part
claimed immediately has distorted the voice of the victim's statement in
the video of its digital page at the request of the AEPD, without prejudice to which the
Information continues to be available and continues to be supplied in full.
This shows that in order to provide this specific information it was not
necessary, under the terms of art. 5.1.c) of the GDPR to disseminate the voice of the victim.

XVIII

The claimed party has processed data that was excessive as it was not necessary for the
purpose for which they were processed, which constitutes an infringement of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR.

The claimed party has processed data that was excessive as it was not necessary for the
purpose for which they were processed, which constitutes an infringement of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR.

The infringement attributed to the claimed party is typified in article
83.5, section a) of the GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the
imposition of administrative fines" provides that:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/53

in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

Article 72. Offenses considered very serious.

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

seventeenth

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, precepts that state:

"Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are effective in each individual case,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

"Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/53

articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
"Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/53

In this case, the following graduation criteria are considered concurrent:

 Aggravating:

- Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR:

Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement: It is considered that the nature of the
infraction is very serious since it entails a loss of disposition and control over
the personal data of your voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and
against sexual integrity and that by disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk
that it could be recognized by third parties, with the serious damages that this
it would cause

- Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR.

Intentional or negligent infringement: Although it is considered that there was no
intentionality on the part of the communication medium, it is concluded that it was negligent
by not ensuring a procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data
in such sensitive circumstances, especially when on many occasions
distorts the voice in the news so that the person is not recognized
talking.

- Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR.

Categories of personal data affected by the infringement: The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as the one reporting the news, very serious, violent
and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is seriously detrimental to the
affected, since what happened is linked to their sexual life.

XVIII

The text of the resolution establishes the offense committed and the
facts that have given rise to the violation of data protection regulations, of
which clearly infers what are the measures to adopt, notwithstanding that the
type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments to implement them
corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is the person responsible for the treatment who
He fully knows his organization and has to decide, based on the responsibility
proactive and risk-focused, how to comply with the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE LA VANGUARDIA EDICIONES, S.L., with NIF B61475257,
for a violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the
GDPR, a fine of 50,000 euros (fifty thousand euros).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/53

SECOND: Confirm the following provisional measures imposed on LA
VANGUARDIA EDITIONS, S.L.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to LA VANGUARDIA EDICIONES, S.L.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment period
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
 IBAN: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code:
restricted no.
CAIXESBBXXX), opened on behalf of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its
collection in executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3.a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/53

The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

