1/24

 Procedure No.: PS/00030/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and with
based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant) filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter AEPD) for receipt on ***DATE.1,
at 11:34 a.m., from a commercial call on behalf of “Vodafone España, S.A.U.”,
with CIF A80907397 (hereinafter the claimed or VDF), to your telephone line
***PHONE.1, which is registered on the advertising exclusion list
Robinson, from the line ***PHONE.2.

Relevant documentation provided by the claimant:

- 34-second audio file corresponding to the recording of the call
claimed business.

- Copy of the invoice (issued by XFERA MÓVILES, S.A.U. with CIF A82528548) of the
telephone line ***TELÉFONO.1 in which the ownership of the claimant is accredited.

- Copy of the registration certificate on the Robinson List issued on 01/31/2020, in which
your telephone line ***TELÉFONO.1 registered against telephone calls
commercials from 08/03/2018.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant / of the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed.

BACKGROUND

Claim entry date: ***DATE.2.

Complainant: A.A.A.
Claimed: VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/24

Dated 04/15/2020 in entry record 014582/2020, associated with the
procedure E/02271/2020, the AEPD verified allegations of the respondent in which
it established that there is no record in its database of the number ***TELEPHONE.2
associated with your collaborators who make recruitment calls on your behalf. The
claimed in that same registry stated that the claimant was registered in the
the corresponding Robinson List since 08/03/2018. In addition, the respondent informs
have included in the internal Robinson list of your entity the telephone line
***TELEPHONE.1 of the claimant as a result of the transfer of the claim, passing to
be recorded as registered therein. The respondent stated that she had not contacted the
claimant to notify you of the steps taken for not having your data
Contact

INVESTIGATED ENTITIES

As stated in the Diligence, incorporated in the associated Investigation File
(E/09385/2020) on 11/25/2020, the telephone line with number ***TELÉFONO.2
was operated by SEWAN COMUNICACIONES, as stated in the Records of
Numbering and Telecommunications Operators of the National Commission of
Markets and Competition (hereinafter, CNMC).

Consequently, during these proceedings, the following has been investigated:
entity:

SEWAN COMUNICACIONES, S.L.U. (hereinafter, the investigated #1), with CIF
B73619215 and address at ***ADDRESS.1 (MADRID).

Likewise, in the course of the preliminary investigation actions, it was established
the need to proceed to investigate also the following entity:

VAMAVI PHONE, S.L. (hereinafter, investigated #2), with CIF B87914446 and address
at ***ADDRESS.2, ***LOCALITY.1 (MADRID).

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION ACTIONS







The claimant's telecommunications operator, XFERA MÓVILES, S.A.U.
expresses confirmation of receipt at the number ***TELEPHONE.1
(ownership of the claimant) of the call made by the line
***PHONE.2, on ***DATE.1 at 11:34:50 a.m. This line of origin
the call is recorded as incoming on the operated interconnection platform
by the investigated #1.

Investigated #1 claims to be a telecommunications operator that
provides telephone services to customers, end users and resellers. The
investigated #1 provides a copy of the public registry of operators of the CNMC in
which is thus identified.

Investigated #1 identifies Investigated #2 as her main client of the
telephone line ***PHONE.2 on ***DATE.1 at 11:34:50 a.m., and
specifically in its ownership since October 2, 2019. The investigated
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

3/24











#1 alleges that he did not make the call or have a contract or
any connection with the one claimed to advertise its commercial services.

Investigated #1 confirms that the call from the telephone line
***PHONE.2 to line ***PHONE.1 (owned by the claimant) is
occurred on ***DATE.1 around 11:34 a.m. and lasted for
39 seconds. Respondent #1 provides a copy of the invoice corresponding to the
month of January 2020 issued to the investigated #2, as its main client of the
telephone line ***PHONE.2, in which said call is reflected
telephone.

The investigated #2 confirms the realization of a commercial call on
***DATE.1 at 11:34 a.m. to offer commercial services on behalf of and
on behalf of the claimed party, to the claimant's telephone line
***PHONE.1 from line ***PHONE.2 (under your ownership).

Respondent #2 states that attracting clients for the defendant
through commercial telephone calls occurred in the segment of
individuals, freelancers and micro-enterprises.

Respondent #2 alleges that she does not have files relating to the owners of the
telephone lines that he called commercially because he was
generated lists of random numbers from the list of numbers
valid ones published by the CNMC, in accordance with the instructions of the claimed party
according to contract. The investigated #2 provides a copy of the list of numbers
telephone numbers presumably extracted from the CNMC.

Respondent #2 states that she has access to the Robinson List in which
performs the filters to avoid numberings that have opposed the
business calls and adds recognize the claimant's phone line
***PHONE.1 included in said list. Investigated #2 alleges, after the
identification of the number of the claimant involved in the commercial call
produced, that [sic]: "(...) so it seems that it is a punctual error in
our filtration system.”

THIRD: On January 27, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant (VDF), for
the alleged infringement of Article 28 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.4 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: The person in charge has not requested the practice of evidence or the sending of the
documentation in the file.

FIFTH: In relation to the allegations made by the person in charge after the agreement
Initially, they are answered in the Fundamentals of Law II (FDII).

SIXTH: On March 5, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated, in which
following terms:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/24

 <That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with CIF A80907397, for a violation of Article 28
in relation to art. 24 both of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD and
according to art. 83.2, with a fine of 100,000 euros (one hundred thousand euros)>.

SEVENTH: It is known that investigated #2 (Vamavi) has direct access to VDF
by means of an access code, to proceed with the registration of the services contracted in
VDF direct distributor status since September 2019.

EIGHTH: On 03/23/2021, VDF submitted arguments to the Proposal for
Resolution, in summary, in the following terms:

1. VDF is not responsible for the processing carried out by its “collaborators…

that use their own databases in the development of their own activity”.

2. The AEPD has investigated the calling numbering and has concluded that it
is owned by the entity Vamavi, an entity that has acknowledged having made
the call to the claimant to promote VDF services. This entity has
identified before the Agency as Solivesa's sub-agent.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited,

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The respondent (VDF) is responsible for data processing
carried out by their entities in charge, among which is
the investigated #2, being the one that defines the purpose and means and acting the ones in charge
in the name and on behalf of VDF.

SECOND: The respondent (VDF) contracted with respondent #2 - as the person in charge
treatment - who made a commercial call to the claimant on the date
***DATE.1, 11:34m, 39 seconds long, to your line number
***TELEPHONE.1 from line ***TELEPHONE.2, offering VDF services.

THIRD: It is stated that VDF was aware of the facts now analyzed and of
the data of the claimant on 03/11/2020 (16:03:36, according to the support of the service of
electronic notifications and certified electronic address). In the transfer of the
claim contained the full contact details of the claimant. Nevertheless,
VDF alleges that it did not contact the claimant as it did not have his data.

FOURTH: The line ***TELEPHONE.1 of the claimant was registered in the list
ADigital robinson advertising exclusion from the date 08/3/2018.

FIFTH: In the treatment manager contract entered into between VDF and the
investigated #2, dated 09/19/2017, and in annexes II, III and IV provided that are
head with express reference to the investigated #2 as "in charge of the
treatment”, there are no instructions on how to carry out the mandatory crossing
of data in order to eliminate the lines registered in the ADigital robinson list of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/24

advertising exclusion. In this regard, VDF alleges that there is "no instruction for
VDF regarding the treatment of said data” (sic).

SIXTH: Nor does VDF record the monitoring and follow-up of the
execution of the processor contract from its beginning until the end of the treatment of
personal data object of order for advertising actions, including the
subcontracting with third parties of VDF's promotional services. the claimed
Until the beginning of this procedure, he was not aware that the number of
The claimant's telephone number was included in the advertising exclusion list
Adigital's Róbinson list, without any record of action against the investigated #2
to avoid the commercial call on his behalf by the investigated #2.

SEVENTH: Exhibit VI of the aforementioned contract states that the scope of this
contract for the provision of services is the promotion of services in the name and by
VFD account.

The second clause states: "The purpose of this contract is the promotion
commercial, in person, of the VODAFONE Services in the area
that is communicated by VODAFONE to the COLLABORATOR (hereinafter,
"Sale Area") so that they can be contracted by the Clients and consumed
recurring and consolidated manner. Exceptionally, the COLLABORATOR may
carry out their activity by making telephone calls when
VODAFONE expressly authorizes this authorization may be limited in time or
objectively to specific promotions/campaigns”.

The fourth clause states: "In the Sales Areas in which the COLLABORATOR
develop their activity for VODAFONE, the COLLABORATOR may not, directly or
indirectly, promote the commercialization of services of other operators,
companies or professionals that intervene in the market in which it operates
VODAFONE, with or without its own network, that participate or compete directly or indirectly
with the Services provided by VODAFONE, regardless of the technology
used by the aforementioned operators, companies or professionals, and must develop
his professional activity in this field exclusively for the account and on behalf of
VODAFONE”.

The fifth clause states:

"5.2 At the beginning of this contract, the COLLABORATOR has the
collaborating third parties listed in Annex II of this contract. (consists
investigated #2 as treatment manager)

5.3. The COLLABORATOR must expressly notify VODAFONE of the new
incorporations of collaborating third parties that must be expressly
authorized by VODAFONE in accordance with clause 6.1. Also, the
COLLABORATOR must submit to VODAFONE on a quarterly basis the list of
third-party collaborators with whom you have at that time”.

EIGHTH: Section 6 of Annex IV of the aforementioned contract states the following:

< USE OF SUB-MANAGER OF TREATMENTS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/24

6.1. The Treatment Manager will not subcontract or outsource any Treatment
of Personal Data to any other person or entity, including the Entities of the
Data Processor Group ("Subprocessor") unless and
until:

6.1.1. The Treatment Manager has notified Vodafone by notification
formal in writing the full name and registered office or main office of the
Processing Assistant by completing Annex 1.

6.1.2. The Treatment Manager has notified Vodafone of any change that
required to be made to Annex 1 in accordance with this Clause 6.

6.1.3. The Treatment Manager has provided Vodafone with the detail
(including categories) of the Treatment that must be carried out by the Sub-Processor of
Treatment in relation to the Services provided;

6.1.4. Treatment Manager has signed an agreement with said Sub-processor
of Treatment that, in no case, may be less demanding than what is contained in
this Agreement;

6.1.5. The Treatment Manager must send Vodafone a certificate or
responsible statement in which you state that you have signed with your Sub-managers
the corresponding contracts regarding data protection and processing
personal in which all the obligations required by VODAFONE are transferred
in accordance with the provisions of VODAFONE in clause 13 of the contract and in the
clause 6.1.4. of this Annex, VODAFONE reserving the right to request
evidence of compliance at any time;

6.1.6. Vodafone has not substantiatedly opposed the subcontracting or
outsourcing within ten (10) business days following receipt of the
written notification of the Treatment Manager established in Clause 6.1.1,
including the information established in Clause 6.1.3; Y

6.2. In all cases, the Treatment Manager will be responsible to Vodafone
of any act or omission carried out by the Treatment Sub-processor or any
another third party designated by him as if the acts or omissions had been
carried out by the Treatment Manager, regardless of whether the
Treatment Manager complied with its obligations specified in the Clause
6.1.

6.3. In case of breach of the obligations contained in this Agreement
for the commission of actions carried out by a Treatment Sub-processor, the
The Treatment Manager must, if requested by Vodafone, assign the
Vodafone's right to act as it deems necessary for the protection and
Safeguarding the Personal Data, under the contract of the Treatment Manager
with the Treatment Sub-manager>.

NINTH: Section 9 of Annex IV of the aforementioned contract states the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/24

< 9. RIGHT TO AUDIT.

The Treatment Manager will ensure that any Sub-Data Processor
Processing allows Vodafone, its clients (including subcontractors, auditors
or other agents of Vodafone and their respective customers) and/or the Authorities of
Privacy (each an "Audit Party") access their systems
computer and other information systems, records, documents and agreements that
reasonably required by the Audit Party, to verify that the Person in Charge of
Treatment and / or its Sub-Processors of Treatments are complying with their
obligations under this Agreement (or any contract of
subsequent Sub-Processing) or any Applicable Privacy Legislation, provided
that such review does not involve review of third party data and that such entity
audit complies with the confidentiality obligations of the person in charge of
Treatment or with the pertinent Treatment Sub-manager, respecting the
confidentiality of the commercial interests of the Treatment Manager or
Subprocessor of Treatment and the data and information of third parties of which the
auditing entity may become aware in the course of carrying out the
audit…>

TENTH: It is stated that the sanctioning procedure of reference PS/00026/2021
initiated against investigated #2 (Vamavi), was resolved by advance payment and
acknowledgment of the facts (those described in the Second Proven Fact), which
knows the claimed every time it alleges it. Also, in the procedure
sanctioning reference PS/00031/2021 is resolved in the sense of filing the
facts imputed to Solivesa since in the twelfth proven fact there is evidence
that Vamavi acted on behalf of and on behalf of VDF as the person in charge of the
treatment in making the call now investigated to the claimant. consists
that VDF is aware of the foregoing as it is accredited in the proven fact
twelfth of the resolution of citation PS/00031/2021, the following:

<TWELFTH: After the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure,
SOLIVESA requested a meeting with the DPD of Vodafone so that they inform how
Vamavi had a direct access code from Vodafone for registering services
contracted, at which time Vodafone informs SOLIVESA that effectively
Vamavi has a direct key from Vodafone as an authorized distributor since
September 2019.> (the AEPD is underlined).
    

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

Yo

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/24

In relation to the allegations made by the person in charge after the initial agreement,
are answered in the following terms:

1R) It should be noted that the object of the claim is not due directly to the
reception of an unwanted call, but to a call to a line registered in the
advertising exclusion list from 08/03/2018, violating the provisions of art
23 of the LOPDGDD.

As developed in the Foundations of Law, the controller must have
absolute control over the processing of data object of order, not only
Previously check the organizational and technical means available to the
entity in charge, but to carry out the necessary subsequent audits in order to guarantee
the rights and freedoms of those affected in the treatments carried out in
name and on behalf of the person in charge.

2R) As indicated in the Foundations of Law, the imputation to VDF in the
This sanctioning procedure does not exonerate other entities from liability
involved in data processing of VDF responsibility and object of order
to other entities as those in charge, although each one must answer for its
conduct contrary to the GDPR, if any, in separate procedures.

3R) In the present case, VDF is responsible for the processing carried out
by the entities in charge of them. The publicity call received by the
claimant being included in the Robinson advertising exclusion list of Adigital
should have been avoided by applying effective organizational and technical means in contracting
of the person(s) in charge, which does not show that they were implanted.

4R) VDF alleges that those in charge must introduce themselves to potential clients
in her name. Without prejudice to the internal rules of courtesy before a potential
client, it should be noted that in the treatment object of analysis it is carried out in the name and
on behalf of VDF at all times, regardless of the databases that
are used.

5R) Regarding the call routing system through the VDF trunk,
It should be noted that its effectiveness is not confirmed, since in the present case it has not been
performed or verified the correct filtering of calls with the exclusion list
Adigital advertising.

5, 6 and 7R) In addition, as VDF has stated in other proceedings, said system
routing was supposed to be activated in February 2020 and now VDF alleges that it is not
will be effective until February 2021, which denotes a serious lack of diligence regarding the
commercial activity carried out by data processors on behalf of and for
VFD account.

8.1R) As has already been reiterated, regarding the application of the aggravating circumstance of art 76.1.b)
of the LOPDGDD in relation to art 83.2.k) of the RGPD, its application is evident
since VDF is one of the country's large telecommunications operators and
acts as responsible for the data subject to treatment in its campaigns
advertising campaigns to attract customers and, in the present case, acting without due diligence
due in the contracting and follow-up of entities in charge.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/24

8.2R) It must be insisted that VDF is responsible for the treatments object of
analysis in this proceeding, as evidenced in the proven facts and
It is developed in the Foundations of Law.

8.3R) It should be noted that article 83.2.e) of the RGPD states as an aggravating circumstance: “any
infraction…”, that is, the repetition of conduct contrary to the regulations of
jurisdiction of the AEPD.

III

In relation to the allegations made by the person in charge after the initial agreement,
are answered in the following terms:

1R) VDF is not responsible for the processing carried out by its "collaborators"
… that use their own databases in the development of their own activity”.

From the definition of data controller in art. 4.7 of GDPR, it is stated that VDF
It is the one that determines the purposes and means of the treatment. In the present case, it consists
that Vamavi materializes the call to the claimant in the name and on behalf of VDF
as stated in the contract signed between both entities in September 2019.
In the following Foundations of Law, the concept of responsible is specified
of the treatment, in charge of the treatment and the obligations of one and the other according to
provides the art. 28 of the GDPR. Consequently, the claim must be dismissed.

2R) The AEPD has investigated the calling numbering and has concluded that the
It is owned by the entity Vamavi, an entity that has acknowledged having
made the call to the claimant to promote VDF services. Is
entity has identified before the Agency as Solivesa's sub-agent.

According to the proven facts of this resolution, the allegation must
dismissed since it is proven that VDF and Vamavi signed a contract
direct and independent (in September 2019) from the one previously signed with
Solivesa, therefore, in the present case, Vamavi acted as the person in charge of the
processing on behalf of and on behalf of VDF in making the call to the
claimant on January 31, 2020. Consequently, making the call
by Vamavi in the name and on behalf of VDF (responsible) on the date
01/31/2020 when the claimant was included in the advertising exclusion list
Róbinson of Adigital since 08/3/2018, is the full responsibility of VDF for not
have had due diligence in ordering and ensuring beforehand and throughout
the period of execution of the contract that its manager (Vamavi) eliminated the records
included in the list of advertising exclusion Róbinson of Adigital, as provided
art 28 of the RGPD and art. 23 of the LOPDGDD.

Article 24 of the RGPD establishes the following:

IV

<Responsibility of the data controller

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/24

1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment
as well as the risks of varying probability and severity for the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, the data controller will apply measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the
processing is in accordance with this Regulation. These measures will be reviewed and
will update when necessary.

2. When they are provided in relation to treatment activities, between
the measures mentioned in paragraph 1 shall include the application, by the
responsible for the treatment, of the appropriate data protection policies.

3. Adherence to codes of conduct approved under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may be used
as elements to demonstrate compliance with the obligations by the
data controller.>

Report 0064/2020 of the Legal Office of the AEPD has emphatically stated
that “The RGPD has meant a paradigm shift when addressing the regulation of the
right to the protection of personal data, which is based on the
principle of "accountability" or "proactive responsibility" as pointed out
repeatedly by the AEPD (Report 17/2019, among many others) and is included in the
Statement of reasons for Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal data and guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD)”.

The aforementioned report goes on to say that “…the criteria on how to attribute the different
roles remain the same (paragraph 11), reiterates that these are concepts
functional, which are intended to assign responsibilities according to roles
of the parties (section 12), which implies that in most cases
The circumstances of the specific case must be taken into account (case by case), taking into account
their actual activities rather than the formal designation of an actor as
"responsible" or "in charge" (for example, in a contract), as well as concepts
autonomous, whose interpretation must be carried out under the European regulations
on protection of personal data (section 13), and taking into account (section
24) that the need for a factual assessment also means that the role of a
controller is not derived from the nature of an entity that is
processing data but of their concrete activities in a specific context…”.

The concepts of controller and processor are not formal, but
functional and must attend to the specific case. The denomination by VDF of
“responsible for the treatment” to its collaborators, does not automatically confer
such condition.

The data controller is from the moment it decides the purposes and
means of treatment, not losing such condition the fact of leaving a certain margin of
action to the person in charge of the treatment or for not having access to the databases of the
duty manager.
This is unquestionably expressed in Guidelines 07/2020 of the European Committee for
Data Protection (CEPD) on the concepts of data controller and
manager in the RGPD -the translation is ours-, "A data controller is
who determines the purposes and means of the treatment, that is, the why and the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/24

how of the treatment. The data controller must decide on both
purposes and means. However, some more practical aspects of
implementation ("non-essential means") can be left to the person in charge
of the treatment. It is not necessary that the controller actually has access to the
data that is being processed to qualify as responsible”.

In the present case, it is clear that VDF is the data controller now
analyzed (call to the claimant on date ***DATE.1 made by Vamavi in
quality of person in charge of the treatment in the name and on behalf of VDF) whenever,
as defined in art 4.7 of the RGPD, it is the entity that determines the purpose and means
of the treatments carried out in direct marketing actions of the person in charge.
Therefore, in its capacity as data controller, it is obliged to comply with
the provisions of the transcribed article 24 of the RGPD and, in particular, regarding the control
effective and continued implementation of “appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to
guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with this
Regulation” among which are those provided in article 28 of the RGPD in
relationship with those in charge of the treatments that act in the name and on behalf of
VDF.

In this sense, and in relation to the allegation made by VDF in its written
allegations that those responsible for the treatments that the entities
commissioned carry out on behalf and name of VDF and, therefore, those who have
of their own files do not act as managers but as
responsible for these treatments, it should be noted that in the Guidelines 07/2020
of the European Committee for Data Protection (CEPD) on the concepts of
responsible for the treatment and in charge in the RGPD -the translation is ours-,“42.
It is not necessary for the data controller to actually have access to the data.
data being processed. Anyone who outsources a processing activity and, by
do so, has a determining influence on the purpose and (essential) means of the
treatment (for example, adjusting the parameters of a service in such a way that
influence whose personal data will be processed), should be considered as
responsible even though he will never have real access to the data”. Let us remember that VDF
determines to whom calls can be made, since calls cannot be made to
who are already customers of the company, in addition to filtering regarding lists of
advertising exclusion (Robinson ADigital) or what corresponds with respect to the exercise
of opposition (internal Robinson).

Likewise, following the legal report of the AEPD dated 11/20/2019, with
internal reference 0007/2019 and STS 1562/2020 (for all of them), we must point out that
analyzes the legal figure of data processor from the perspective of the GDPR
that regulates it exclusively.

Article 28 of the GDPR establishes the following:

v

Treatment Manager

<1. When a treatment is going to be carried out on behalf of a person in charge of the
treatment, this will only choose a person in charge who offers sufficient guarantees
to apply appropriate technical and organizational measures, so that the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/24

treatment is in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation and guarantees the
protection of the rights of the interested party.

2. The person in charge of treatment will not resort to another person in charge without prior authorization
in writing, specific or general, of the person in charge. In the latter case, the manager
will inform the person in charge of any change foreseen in the incorporation or
replacement of other processors, thus giving the controller the opportunity to oppose
to these changes.

3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act with
under the law of the Union or of the Member States, binding the person in charge
with respect to the person in charge and establish the object, duration, nature and
purpose of the treatment, the type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the
obligations and rights of the controller. Said contract or legal act shall stipulate, in
particular, that the person in charge:

a) will process personal data only following documented instructions of the
responsible, including with respect to transfers of personal data to a
third country or an international organization, unless required to do so under
of the Law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the person in charge; in
In such a case, the person in charge will inform the person in charge of that legal requirement prior to the
treatment, unless such Law prohibits it for important reasons of interest
public;

b) will guarantee that the persons authorized to process personal data have
committed to respecting confidentiality or are subject to an obligation of
confidentiality of a statutory nature;

c) take all necessary measures in accordance with article 32;

d) will respect the conditions indicated in sections 2 and 4 to resort to another
treatment manager;

e) will assist the person in charge, taking into account the nature of the treatment, through
appropriate technical and organizational measures, whenever possible, so that this
can comply with its obligation to respond to requests that are intended to
the exercise of the rights of the interested parties established in chapter III;

f) will help the person in charge to guarantee the fulfillment of the obligations
established in articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the treatment
and the information available to the person in charge;

g) at the choice of the person in charge, will delete or return all personal data once
Once the provision of treatment services ends, and will delete the copies
existing unless the retention of personal data is required under
of the Law of the Union or of the Member States;

h) will make available to the person in charge all the information necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the obligations established in this article, as well as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/24

to enable and assist in the performance of audits, including inspections, by
part of the person in charge or of another auditor authorized by said person in charge.

In relation to the provisions of letter h) of the first paragraph, the person in charge will inform
immediately to the controller if, in his opinion, an instruction violates this
Regulation or other provisions on data protection of the Union or of
the member states.

4. When a person in charge of the treatment resorts to another person in charge to carry out
certain treatment activities on behalf of the person in charge, will be imposed on
this other manager, by contract or other legal act established in accordance with the
Law of the Union or of the Member States, the same obligations of
data protection than those stipulated in the contract or other legal act between the
responsible and the person in charge referred to in section 3, in particular the provision
of sufficient guarantees of application of appropriate technical and organizational measures
so that the treatment is in accordance with the provisions of this
Regulation. If that other processor breaches its data protection obligations,
the initial processor will remain fully accountable to the controller
treatment with regard to the fulfillment of the obligations of the other
duty manager.

5. The treatment manager's adherence to a code of conduct approved by
under article 40 or to an approved certification mechanism under article
42 may be used as an element to demonstrate the existence of guarantees
enough referred to in sections 1 and 4 of this article.

6. Without prejudice to the fact that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment celebrate a
individual contract, the contract or other legal act referred to in sections 3 and 4
of this article may be based, totally or partially, on the clauses
standard contracts referred to in sections 7 and 8 of this article, inclusive
when they form part of a certification granted to the person in charge or in charge of
in accordance with articles 42 and 43.

7. The Commission may establish standard contractual clauses for the matters to which it is
referred to in sections 3 and 4 of this article, in accordance with the procedure of
examination referred to in article 93, paragraph 2.

8. A supervisory authority may adopt standard contractual clauses for the
matters referred to in sections 3 and 4 of this article, in accordance with the
coherence mechanism referred to in article 63.

9. The contract or other legal act referred to in sections 3 and 4 shall be recorded by
written, including in electronic format.

10. Without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84, if a person in charge of the
treatment infringes this Regulation by determining the purposes and means of the
treatment, will be considered responsible for the treatment with respect to said
treatment>

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/24

The definition of "processor" includes a wide range of actors,
whether natural or legal persons, public authorities, agencies or other bodies.

The existence of a data processor depends on a decision made by the data processor.
responsible for the treatment (VDF), which may decide to carry out certain
treatment operations or contract all or part of the treatment with a
duty manager.

The essence of the function of "processor" is that the personal data
are processed in the name and on behalf of the data controller. In practice,
it is the person in charge who determines the purpose and the means, at least the essential ones,
while the person in charge of the treatment has a function of providing services to the
Treatment Managers. In other words, "acting in the name and on behalf of
data controller" means that the data controller is at the
servicing the interest of the controller in carrying out a task
specific and, therefore, follows the instructions established by the person in charge of the
processing, at least as regards the purpose and essential means of processing.
ordered treatment.

Article 28, section 1, of the RGPD establishes that “When a
processing on behalf of a controller, the latter will choose only one
manager that offers sufficient guarantees to apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational structures, so that the treatment is in accordance with the
requirements of this Regulation and guarantee the protection of the rights of the
interested".
The obligation provided for in article 28.1 of the RGPD -to select a person in charge of the
treatment that offers sufficient guarantees to guarantee the application of the
Regulation and the rights and freedoms of the interested party - it is not exhausted in the action
prior selection and hiring of treatment manager. This forces the
responsible for the treatment to be evaluated at all times during the entire execution
of the contract if the guarantees (technical or organizational) offered by the person in charge of the
treatment are sufficient to guarantee the rights and freedoms of
interested.

Guidelines 07/2020 of the European Committee for Data Protection (CEPD) on the
concepts of controller and manager in the RGPD -the translation is
ours- have, without a doubt, that “97. The obligation to use only the
treatment managers "that provide sufficient guarantees" contained in the
Article 28(1) GDPR is a continuing obligation. does not end in
moment in which the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment conclude a contract or
other legal act. Instead, the controller should, at appropriate intervals, verify the
processor assurances, including through audits and inspections when
correspond
 
 ”.

And this, because the data controller is the one who has the obligation to guarantee
the application of data protection regulations and the protection of the rights of
interested parties, as well as being able to prove it (articles 5.2, 24, 28 and 32 of the
GDPR). The control of compliance with the law extends throughout the
treatment from start to finish. The data controller must
act, in any case, diligently, consciously, committed and actively.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/24

This mandate of the legislator is independent of whether the treatment is carried out
directly the person in charge of the treatment or that it is carried out using a
treatment manager. Where the Law does not distinguish, we cannot distinguish ourselves.

In addition, the treatment carried out materially by a treatment manager for
account of the person in charge of the treatment belongs to the sphere of action of this
last, in the same way as if he did it directly himself. The person in charge of
treatment, in the case examined, is an extension of the person responsible for the
treatment.

The data controller has the obligation to integrate and deploy the protection
of data within everything that makes up your organization, in all its areas. I know
must bear in mind that, ultimately, the determining purpose is to
guarantee the protection of the interested party.

Interpret it in the opposite direction - the obligations that article 28 of the RGPD imposes
to the data controller are limited to verifying the capabilities of the data controller
initio and to sign the treatment manager contract - would not only contravene the
current legislation constituting a clearly fraudulent action, but rather
would violate the spirit and purpose of the GDPR.

In light of the principle of proactive responsibility (art 5.2 RGPD), the person in charge of the
treatment must be able to demonstrate that it has taken into account all the elements
provided for in the GDPR. In the present case, VDF has disregarded the
contracting by the entity in charge of the treatments initially entrusted.

The data controller must take into account whether the data processor
provides adequate documentation that demonstrates said compliance, policies of
privacy protection, file management policies, privacy policies
information security, external audit reports, certifications,
management of the exercises of rights … etc.

The data controller must also take into account the knowledge
specialized technicians of the person in charge of the treatment, the reliability and its resources.
Only if the data controller can demonstrate (principle of liability
proactive of art 5.2 of the RGPD) that the person in charge of the treatment is adequate during
the entire processing phase (at all times) to carry out the order
entrusted may enter into a binding agreement that meets the requirements of the
article 28 of the RGPD, without prejudice to the fact that the data controller must follow
complying with the principle of accountability and periodically check the
compliance of the person in charge and the measures in use. Before outsourcing a treatment
and in order to avoid possible violations of the rights and freedoms of those affected, the
controller must enter into a contract, other legal act or agreement
binding with the other entity that establishes clear and precise obligations in terms of
of data protection (in the present case there is a contract of September 2019
with Vamavi).

The person in charge of the treatment can only carry out treatments on the instructions
documentation of the controller, unless required to do so by law

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/24

of the Union or of a Member State, which is not the case. The person in charge of the treatment
It also has the obligation to collaborate with the person in charge in guaranteeing the rights
of the interested parties and comply with the obligations of the data controller.
in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 28 of the RGPD (and related).

Therefore, it is insisted that the data controller must establish
clear modalities for said assistance and give precise instructions to the person in charge of the
treatment on how to comply with them properly and document it prior to
through a contract or in another (binding) agreement and check in all
moment of the development of the contract its fulfillment in the form established in the
same.

However, despite the obligations of the person in charge, article 28 of the RGPD
seems to suggest that the responsibility of the processor remains
limited compared to the responsibility of the data controller. In
other words, although data controllers can, in principle, be
responsible for the damages derived from any infraction related to the
processing of personal data (including those that have been committed by the
data processor) or breach of contract or other (binding) agreement
those in charge may be held liable when they have acted
margin of the mandate granted by the data controller, or have not complied
their own contractual obligations or in accordance with the RGPD. In these cases, the
in charge of the treatment can be considered totally or partially responsible for
the “part” of the processing operation in which you participate. He will only be in charge
fully responsible when it is entirely responsible for the damages
caused in terms of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties affected; all
this, without avoiding the responsibility in which the data controller has
incurred in order to avoid them.

In the present case, and in accordance with the content of the contract signed, the respondent #2
acts as a manager whenever, according to the definition, they act
fully in the name and on behalf of the person in charge (VDF) for all purposes in
matter of data protection. Simply bring up the content of the already
mentioned STS 1562/2020 (for all), which states the following:

<< In this sense, and the Judgment of the Supreme Court of June 5, 2004, which
confirms, in appeal for Doctrine Uniﬁcation, that of this AN of October 16,
2003, echoing what was argued by this Chamber, refers to the differentiation of two
responsible depending on whether the decision-making power is directed to the file or to the
data treatment. Thus, the person responsible for the file is the one who decides the creation of the file.
file and its application, and also its purpose, content and use, that is, who has
capacity to decide on all the data recorded in said file.

The person responsible for the treatment, however, is the subject to whom the
decisions on the specific activities of a certain data processing,
that is, on a specific application. It would be all those assumptions in
which the power of decision must be differentiated from the material realization of the
activity that integrates the treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/24

With this, as also argued by the STS of April 26, 2005 (appeal for
unification of doctrine 217/2004), the Spanish legislator intends to adapt to the
requirements of Directive 95/46/EC, which aims to provide a legal response to the
phenomenon, which is becoming more and more frequent, of the so-called externalization of
computer services, where multiple operators act, many of them
insolvent, created with the aim of seeking impunity or irresponsibility of the
that follow in the next links of the chain.

Currently, the new Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to
regarding the processing of personal data (repealing the Directive
95/46/EC, and directly applicable as of May 25, 2018) also distinguishes
between the figures of the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment. The first is defined
in section 7) of article 4 as "individual or legal entity (...) that determines the
purposes and means of treatment". And the person in charge of treatment in section 8) of the
same article 4 as the one that "processes personal data on behalf of the person responsible
of the treatment".
 
This in relation to Articles 24 and 28 of the same European Regulation of
Data Protection. Responsible and in charge of data processing that, without place
Undoubtedly, they are also responsible for breaches of data protection
of data, in such new regulatory framework, in accordance with the provisions of article
82.2 of the repeated Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in which: «Any person responsible
that participates in the treatment operation will be liable for the damages
caused in the event that said operation does not comply with the provisions of this
Regulation. A manager will only be liable for damages
caused by the treatment when you have not complied with the obligations of the
this Regulation addressed specifically to those in charge or has acted
margin or contrary to the legal instructions of the person in charge ».

It follows from all of the above that the concurrence, in the present case, of a
in charge of the treatment ZZZZ in no way exempts the entity from responsibility
XXXX now recurring, and this despite the forcefulness of the clauses that appear
in the contract and annex to it signed by both companies (proven facts 9 and
10) insofar as the personal data processed were for the purpose of carrying out
an advertising campaign regarding car and motorcycle insurance that was marketed by the
(XXXX), ultimately for the benefit of said XXXX, being such plaintiff entity the one that, in
Ultimately, it determines the purposes and means of repeated data processing, therefore
that it cannot be exonerated from liability.>>
The STS continues, in relation to the possible exoneration of alleged responsibility
As for what is signed in the "processing manager" contract, the following:

<< The sanctioned conduct of obstruction or impediment by XXXX of the exercise
by its client of the right to oppose the processing of their data, is manifested in
that said company did not adopt any kind of measure or precaution to avoid the
sending advertising to your customer's email addresses by
those companies entrusted with carrying out the advertising campaigns.

The adoption of the necessary measures or precautions to ensure the effectiveness of the
right to oppose the processing of your data by XXXX, such as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/24

responsible for the file, subsist even if the advertising campaigns are not carried out
from the data of their own files, but with databases of other
companies contracted by XXXX, and in this case it was proven that the appellant
did not communicate to the companies with which it contracted the performance of services of
advertising the complainant's opposition to receiving publicity from the Mutual, nor in short
took any provision to ensure the exclusion of his client from the shipments
advertisers contracted with third parties>> and as in the present case,
resulting in the line called included in the advertising exclusion lists from the
3/08/2018.
       
Consequently, it must be concluded that the treatment analyzed in the background
in its various modalities by the person in charge, the controller is
Vodafone Spain, S.A.U. (VDF) and acting as manager that other
entity that acts in the name and on behalf of VDF and for its benefit (Vamavi).

Of the documentation that works in the file to which mention is made in the
this resolution based on the information collected by the Inspection of this
AEPD and VDF's own acts and manifestations, non-compliance by
VDF as responsible for the treatments entrusted to the effective control and
continued in the time of the measures provided in the above transcribed art 28 of the
GDPR.

In this regard, add that the obligation set forth in art 28.3.h) RGPD, using in the
At the beginning, the imperative term “will put” referred to the person in charge of the treatment, generates the
obligation to "demand" from the controller "compliance with the obligations
established in this article, as well as to allow and contribute to the realization
of audits, including inspections, by the controller or another auditor
authorized by said person in charge.

Thus, it is clear that those in charge of the treatment (and, where appropriate, successive
subprocessors) who act in the name and on behalf of VDF do not offer the guarantees
sufficient to apply the technical and organizational measures appropriate to the treatment
commissioned by VDF. And they are not duly documented by VDF either.
entrusted tasks that carry out the treatments in the name and on behalf of the
responsible (VDF).

VDF, as data controller, does not know under what conditions it contracts a
commissioned to act on your behalf and name and under your specific specifications
-which do not exist regarding the crossing and exclusion of lines called included
previously in robinson Adigital- and accepts in these conditions and without hesitation this
conduct even having knowledge of this anomaly.

Nothing appears in the relationship between VDF and those in charge regarding the requirements
listed in art 28.3 above, which, in summary, are specified in defining
previously by the person in charge of the treatment (VDF) the object, duration, nature,
purpose, types of data, categories, obligations and rights of the interested parties, and
mandatory powers of continuous control … etc. Only on specific occasions
cites having informally communicated one or another specific guidelines for action without
that this implies any effective control of VDF with the treatments entrusted
on your behalf and on your behalf.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/24

Therefore, non-compliance with data protection regulations must be
imputed also, and in the first place, to the person in charge of the treatment (VDF) for not acting
clearly, actively and effectively in stipulating and enforcing the specifications
opportune to carry out adequately in time the treatment
commissioned on his behalf.

The foregoing, without prejudice to the responsibilities incurred by the
Entities in charge and sub-in charge of the treatments that must be settled in
other procedures, which to date have already been resolved.

Consequently, there is no evidence that VDF has carried out continuous monitoring during
the entire execution cycle of the commissioned treatments despite numerous
Known claims and ongoing investigations carried out by the AEPD and
which VDF has full knowledge

Art 23 LOPDGDD.

SAW

Article 23. Advertising exclusion systems.

<<1. The processing of personal data that is intended to avoid sending
of commercial communications to those who have expressed their refusal or
opposition to receiving them. To this end, information systems may be created, general
or sectoral, in which only the essential data will be included to identify the
the affected. These systems may also include preference services,
through which those affected limit the reception of commercial communications
those from certain companies.

2. The entities responsible for the advertising exclusion systems will notify
the competent control authority, its creation, its general or sectoral nature, as well
as the way in which those affected can join them and, where appropriate,
assert your preferences. The competent control authority will make public in its
electronic headquarters a list of the systems of this nature that were
communicated, incorporating the information mentioned in the previous paragraph. to such
effect, the competent control authority to which the creation has been communicated
of the system will make it known to the remaining control authorities for their
post for all of them.

3. When an affected person expresses to a person in charge his desire that his data not
are treated for the sending of commercial communications, it must inform you
of the existing advertising exclusion systems, being able to refer to the
information published by the competent control authority.

4. Those who intend to carry out direct marketing communications must
previously consult the advertising exclusion systems that could affect your
action, excluding from the treatment the data of those affected who would have
expressed their opposition or refusal to it. For these purposes, to consider
Once the previous obligation has been fulfilled, it will be enough to consult the exclusion systems
included in the list published by the competent control authority.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/24

It will not be necessary to carry out the query referred to in the previous paragraph when the
affected had provided, in accordance with the provisions of this organic law, his
consent to receive the communication to whoever intends to make it.>>

In the event that there is an infringement of the provisions of the RGPD, between the
corrective powers available to the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
as a control authority, article 58.2 of said Regulation contemplates the
following:

7th

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;"

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;".

viii

Therefore, VDF, as the controller of the processing carried out on behalf of and
on your behalf and in accordance with the evidence available in the
At this time, it is considered that the facts exposed do not comply with what is established
in article 28, with the scope expressed in the Foundations of Law
above, and involve the commission of an offense classified in article 83.4.a) of the
RGPD, which under the heading “General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative” provides the following:

Article 83.4.a) of the RGPD establishes the following:

<4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 a
39, 42 and 43; …>.

Article 71 of the LOPDGDD. Violations.

The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 constitute infractions.
and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

Article 73 section p) of the LOPDGDD, establishes the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/24

<Infringements considered serious. Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the
infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the mentioned articles
in that and, in particular, the following:

p) The processing of personal data without carrying out a prior assessment of the
elements mentioned in article 28 of this organic law.>

According to the available evidence, the facts constitute
infringement of art. 28 in relation to art 24 of the RGPD, infringement typified in art.
83.4.a) of said rule and considered serious for the purposes of prescription in art. 73
section p) of the LOPDGDD.

IX

In the present case, the claimed party, as data controller
now imputed, has not proven to carry out with its obligations or the
due diligence to which it is obliged according to article 28 and 24 of the RGPD in the
follow-up and successive and permanent control throughout the entire cycle of the
treatment of the services entrusted with the entity in charge of the treatment
(Vamavi), which has given rise to the violation of rights and freedoms of the
claimant.

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

X

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
 
2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/24

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through infringement.

For its part, in relation to article 83.2.k) RGPD, article 76 “Sanctions and measures
corrections” of the LOPDGDD provides:

<1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are disputes between them and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of
the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.

4. It will be published in the Official State Gazette the information that
identify the offender, the offense committed and the amount of the penalty imposed
when the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency, the
sanction exceeds one million euros and the offender is a legal person.
When the competent authority to impose the sanction is an authority
regional data protection, it will be in accordance with its applicable regulations>.

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and derived from the instruction of the
procedure for the purpose of setting the amount of the penalty for infraction of article 28 of the
RGPD to VDF as responsible for the aforementioned infringement typified in article 83.4.a)
of the RGPD, it is appropriate to graduate the fine that must be imposed as follows:

Violation due to non-compliance with the provisions of article 28 in relation to article 24
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) and classified as serious for the purposes of
prescription in article 73, paragraphs p) of the LOPDGDD:

The following graduation criteria are considered concurrent aggravating circumstances, according to
Article 83.2 of the RGPD and 76 of the LOPDGDD:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/24

Art. 76.1.b) LOPDGDD. The high link between the offender's activity and the
processing of personal data. It is known that VDF is a
entity with more than fifteen million customers whose personal data is processed
systematically in the exercise of its powers as one of the main
telecommunications operators.

Art. 83.1 and 83.2.k) and RGPD. The status of a large company of the responsible entity and
its turnover (according to the corresponding audited annual accounts report
to the period from March 2018 to March 2019, plus 1,600 million euros of
business and with more than 4,000 employees).

Art. 83.2.b) RGPD. The respondent entity has not implemented procedures
adequate action in contracting and continuous, permanent and
effective throughout the term of the contract with those in charge of processing
so that the infraction is not the consequence of a punctual anomaly in the
operation of said procedures but a persistent and continuing defect of the
personal data management system designed by the controller in terms of
the treatments delegated to those in charge of them, which denotes a
gross negligence.

Art. 83.2.e) Any previous infraction: There are more than fifty in this AEPD
sanctioning procedures completed in the last two years.

Considering the exposed factors, and taking into account the range of the sanction
possible up to 10 million euros, the assessment of the amount of the fine for the
infringement charged is €100,000 (one hundred thousand euros), resulting in the present case
adequate to be proportional, effective and dissuasive (art 83.1 RGPD).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with CIF A80907397, for a
violation of Article 28 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD, a fine
of 100,000 euros (one hundred thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/24

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

