1/18

 File No.: EXP202103912

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On December 21, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
transcribe:

<<

File No.: EXP202103912

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On September 27, 2021, A.A.A. (hereinafter, the part
claimant) filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397
(hereinafter, the claimed party).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

In 2019, after a problem of identity theft, he requested to protect his
personal data to VODAFONE, establishing the request for telephone access
of a security key as of 06/18/2019, noting that any
procedure or modification can only be carried out in person at the
Vodafone offices.

On 09/05/2021, he receives an email from VODAFONE indicating that
I had requested a duplicate invoice, not having requested it. After accessing your
personal area verifies that the contact email data has been modified
to another address.

On 09/07/2021, he went to a VODAFONE store indicating that he had already suffered with
before an identity theft, and the employee who attends tells you that

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

send email to the fraud department so that they are pending, and that
If your identity were impersonated, your notice to Vodafone would remain on record. manifest
who insisted that any procedure by telephone to be carried out in his office be blocked
contract, and that any modification or change should be made in person
in their offices.

Dated September 10, 2021, you receive an email from VODAFONE at
the one that informs you that your cancellation has been made, canceling all the services that
I had contracted for portability to LOWI. Tried to retrieve the line without success using
Contact VODAFONE.

Contact LOWI to block the line, and they tell you that you must provide a copy of the
DNI, however they inform you that the policy to admit the contracting / portability is
provide the ID number (not a copy of the ID), full name and telephone number.
Request the cancellation by mail on 09/11/2021 and receive a response on 09/13/2021
indicating that the line has been temporarily frozen. also ask
how the SIM was delivered without requesting the DNI of the contract holder, according to what
indicates the web page, and states that the manager who attends it indicates that normally
they are deposited in the mailbox of the address that appears in the contract and the
identity document.

Declares that as a consequence of these events they have tried to access your account
current, which was blocked by your bank.

Date on which the claimed events took place: September 5, 2021
(access to the invoice and modification of the data) and September 10, 2021
(portability).

Relevant documentation provided by the claimant:

- Copy of the duplicate of the invoice with VODAFONE that states that there is no
required.

- Copies of the police complaints filed on September 10 and 17,
2021.

- Copy of contract with LOWI in your name.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), on November 3, 2021, said claim was notified
to the claimed party, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in
within one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on November 8, 2021 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

On December 6, 2021, a response to said requirement was received from
VODAFONE, indicating that it sent an email to the claimant on 8
September 2021 to the address ***EMAIL.1, in which he informed him that he was leaving
to carry out said portability, without expressing his rejection of it.

However, by not recognizing the portability made by the claimant,
VODAFONE informed him that the VODAFONE Fraud Department did not
It was not possible to carry out any additional management on the line since this line was
was discharged from LOWI.

For this reason, the respondent entity indicated to the claimant that she should contact
with LOWI and process said incident with said operator, informing them of the
events occurred.

Likewise, it informed the claimant that, once the fraud was declared in LOWI and
regained control over the line, could request portability again to
VODAFONE.

Thus, on October 5, 2021, the fraud department contacted
with the claimant to return the affected line to VODAFONE by means of a
retroportability, although the claimant's husband rejected said portability.

Therefore, VODAFONE considers that the incident was correctly resolved.

THIRD: On December 27, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of
the LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

ONE. Information and documentation has been requested from VODAFONE with the following
result:

The existence of a registered interaction in the systems of
VODAFONE consisting of an incoming phone call dated 09/05/2021
5:21 p.m. requesting a duplicate invoice for the month of September, and information on
bank details and the bank. As a result of the call, “informo” appears.
The entity has been required to provide documentary evidence of the passage of the privacy policy
security (with the data requested to pass it on) and have requested the password
security to the applicant to carry out this procedure, having indicated the
representatives of the entity that there is no additional information on this
interaction.

It does not appear in the VODAFONE systems, according to the information provided by the
entity, no interaction corresponding to the change to the email address

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

email address of the alleged supplanter. There is only one change to the email address
of the claimant on 09/05/2021 via the web.

Requested information on the operation of the security key
VODAFONE representatives state that the entity makes available to its
customers the option of passing a strict security policy, being able to choose between
only be attended in person in a store, or always be requested the password
security (call or not the owner). If you want to waive this strict policy in the future,
the request will have to be made in writing, not being able to return to security policy
usual with telephone request. In the Attention with password option, the tab is marked
client with this type of policy, in such a way that a pop up pops up at the moment
that the call comes in: “ONLY ANSWER WITH ACCESS PASSWORD FOR CALL
CLIENT", in such a way that by telephone only and exclusively
management of the services you have contracted if you provide the security key.
You will never be attended without the Customer Service access code, even if you provide the
owner data. (There is another option available for customer service access code.
client to be attended requesting only the password, without requesting it from Vodafone
no other data. In this case it could be addressed by passing the security policy
providing the data of the owner or with the key, either of the two options would be
valid).

Required the relationship and detail of all contacts maintained with the claimant
between 09/01/2021 and 09/15/2021 including the annotations made by the
telephone service managers and the reflection in the systems that accredits the actions
undertaken by the entity in each contact, VODAFONE provides, among others, the
following interactions in chronological order, with annotations reflected in
Their case:

- 09/05/2021 16:51 incoming phone call, check invoice, no further notes.

- 09/05/2021 17:07 incoming phone call, customer data modification, no more
annotations.

- 09/05/2021 17:12 incoming phone call, reason: check invoice.

- 09/05/2021 17:21 (call already specified in this report above) call from
Incoming telephone number dated 09/05/2021 5:21 p.m. requesting a duplicate invoice for the month
September, and information on bank details and the bank. consists
as a result: “inform”.

- 09/07/2021 16:45 incoming phone call consists of: possible fraud, impersonation, and the
note: "we send email to fraud for data review possible fraud attempt".

- 09/07/2021 16:49 incoming phone call note: “we correct address on request
customer".

- 09/10/2021 18:41 incoming phone call. Client indicates that they have ported his
telephone number without having requested it. A case is generated by the Service
Customer Service with the following comments:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

"Client indicates that without his consent the portability of his line has been generated
number *** TELEPHONE.1 on September 8, 2021 to the operator lowi, it is mentioned
that said client has a certificate of identity theft and therefore all
The procedure generated does not correspond to the decision of the owner of the services.

It is requested, it can be reviewed immediately and manage the activation again of the
mobile service because it is urgent for the owner since he is outside
his address completely isolated and also the ported number is being
used by another person since it is certified at the time of making calls. “

On 09/12/2021 at 2:20 p.m. the case is closed from the fraud department with
the following comments:

“As the client claims that his line ***TELEPHONE.1 has been ported from vdf in
another company- lowi

Essential mobile withdrawal Reverse Portability FV 09/9/2021, ea line in portability dp.

Since vdf fraud, we don't have access to lowi.

In this situation the customer has to contact the operator lowi- and with
the vdf portability/lowering department that has made the low.

The line is no longer active in vdf and from fraud no management can be generated.

; reason for improper submission to this queue, I return the case to the origin queue”

Information has been requested on whether portability notices were issued by SMS to the
claimant's line, as well as documentary evidence of the notices in case
affirmative. The representatives of VODAFONE have stated in this regard that in the
internal systems of the entity there are no SMS records in which the
portability claimant.

TWO. Information and documentation has been requested from LOWI with the following
result:

The portability procedure followed by LOWI includes a digital signature process,
which according to the representatives of the entity:
- Applies to all channels and it is a mandatory process for both new
customers as well as own customers.

- During the digital signature process, two communications are sent to the client, both
for the same channel. The first where you receive a link to access, entering your
DNI, detailing the contracted products and rates and where you can download a
copy of your contract. In the second communication you receive an authentication code
with a one-time password (for its acronym in English “OTP” or “One Time
Password”) that you must enter to digitally sign your order.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

- If there is a mobile phone with portability in the contract, the signature communications
digital are sent via SMS to the mobile you are carrying.

-(…)

The portability object of this file, dated 09/10/2021, was processed
by phone. They attach the recording of the portability request. It is found that
In the telephone conversation, the requesting person provides the data of the claimant:
DNI, name, surname, and number to carry, beginning with 607, indicating
VODAFONE as origin operator with the contract modality. The manager too
requests during the conversation, among other information, a contact telephone number (which the
applicant provides and beginning with 649), a postal address for sending the
SIM card and bank account.

It is verified that the manager indicates to the applicant that he is going to send her a text message
to the contact telephone number, which begins with 649, so that I can review the contract and
accept. (…).

LOWI representatives indicate that in March 2022 a
modification in the procedure to reinforce the telephone contracting process and
thus avoiding possible fraudulent registrations. Specifically, the change that was carried out is the
following:
"If the recording includes portability, a call must be made to the telephone number
portability to do it. It cannot be done in the same call”. The
representatives of the entity indicate that the digital signature, when carried out on the
device to be carried (in cases of portability), serves as a guarantee of
that the signer is in possession of the number being carried. In cases where
it is impossible to carry out the digital signature, it must be carried out, as a guarantee,
a call to the portable number. They indicate that this is because, if the
portability is carried out through a call made by the interested subject,
the agent that attends the request may not know the numbering from where it is
receiving the call.

On whether portability notices were issued by SMS to the line to be ported and the accreditation
documentary evidence of the sending of these notices, LOWI representatives have manifested
Since these SMS are archived only for a period of 3 months, so they do not
there is a history for the case. They provide a screenshot of a model message
sent to inform new clients of a port.

With regard to the postal delivery service for the delivery of SIM cards, it has been
dear to LOWI to provide a complete copy of the service contract signed with
the postal delivery entity for the delivery of the SIM cards, as well as documents
contractual indication indicating the method of delivery and the way to identify the
SIM card receiver. LOWI representatives have stated that they have
adopted, together with the entity that provides the service, a series of controls to increase
Edit the identity of the recipient of the shipment.
Specifically, there are the following controls:
(i) Validated delivery

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

The ID of the person who receives the shipment is collected.

(ii) Exclusive delivery to the title recipient of the shipment.

The operation consists in that when the driver is going to make the delivery, in the
delivery site skips a notification indicating the following:

“Do not deliver if they do not present us with the original ID of the owner of the shipment. Just deliver to the
indicated address”.

Provide a copy of the service provision agreement with the parcel delivery entity in the
which is indicated:

"The recipient's data will be processed to proceed with the delivery and, in those cases,
positions in which the Client so requires, accredit its receipt by means of:

The registration of the name and surname of the recipient of the delivery and his ID along with the capture
of your signature, either on paper or through our PDAS, which includes, together with
the image of the signature, Information about certain features (line speed, pre-
sion...) that uniquely identify it. In any case, the receiver can request
tar sign on paper.

Additionally, in the event that the contracted services include it, the verification
proof of authenticity of the recipient's DNI. To do this, [the service provider], compli-
meeting the Client's requirements, you will obtain a copy of your authenticating document of
identification and will verify the existence of signs of falsification through means
machine reading or other verification techniques.”

This document therefore points out different possibilities or accreditation options.
of the identity of the recipient, as required by the client (in this case LOWI), but it is not
provide supporting documentation that reflects whether said options have been required or
contracted by LOWI with the parcel company.

Among the contacts registered in the entity's information system is the
mentioned by the claimant dated 09/10/2021, including the note that the
Activate security word for theft, at the client's request, facilitating the email manager
for the claimant to send a complaint since she states that she fears that it will generate
debt. On 09/13/2021 there is a note informing the customer that the line is
frozen, management motivated by an incoming email from the claimant.

THREE: VODAFONE ESPAÑA has absorbed VODAFONE ENABLER (LOWI) with
date of 10/13/2022

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Security in the processing of personal data is regulated in article 32 of the
GDPR where the following is established:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature of
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as probability risks
and variable severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the responsibility
responsible and the person in charge of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures.
measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, will include
yeah, among others:
a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When assessing the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
The risks presented by the data processing, in particular as a consequence
of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of personal data transmitted
collected, preserved or processed in another way, or the unauthorized communication or access
two to said data.

3. Adherence to a code of conduct approved under article 40 or to a mecha-
certification document approved in accordance with article 42 may serve as an element to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and having
ga access to personal data can only process such data following instructions
of the controller, unless it is required to do so by Union law or by
the Member States.”

Article 73.f) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered serious
has:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

"Based on article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, serious and
Offenses that involve a substantial violation of the law shall prescribe after two years.
of the articles mentioned therein, and in particular the following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

II

For its part, article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes that "The processing will only be lawful if
at least one of the following conditions is met:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested be a child.”

Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD states that "according to what is established in the
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe
after three years, the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions of
legality of treatment in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

IV.

Circular 1/2009, of the Telecommunications Market Commission, by which
Verbal consent with verification by a third party is introduced in the contracting of
regulated wholesale services of fixed communications, as well as in requests for
conservation of numbering establishes in relation to the processing of requests for
regulated wholesale services of fixed communications and/or portability with
verbal consent to the following:

"In order for the beneficiary operator to start processing an application with
verbal consent of the subscriber, it will be necessary:

a) That the verification that proves the subscriber's consent to change
operator with or without number portability, or that which proves the consent
to keep the numbering due to change of operator (fixed or mobile) comply with the
following requirements:

1. The verification call is initiated by the subscriber (by calling the verifier), or
by the operator's sales agent (forwarding the call to the verifier and
abandoning it).

2. Verification is carried out directly by telephone by a security agent
verification by a third party, without systems being able to be used for said operation
based on recordings or voice synthesis mechanisms.

3. During the verification call the verification agent does not take place
promotion of the service, or any other type of commercial or marketing activity.

4. The verification call matches the content of the verification questionnaire
included in annex I of this Circular that is appropriate for each type of action, with
regardless of the specific phrases that are going to be used in the call of
check.

5. The verification call must be encoded in MP3 or WAVE format.

b) That once the verification call is finished, the verifier has determined if
it is a positive verification, taking into account the verification criteria
included in this Circular and thus communicate it to the beneficiary operator.

c) That the beneficiary operator sends the subscriber the documentary confirmation of the
agreed telephone contract and its verification, once the
positive verification communication. For these purposes, the beneficiary operator, to which
bears the burden of proof, you must submit documentary confirmation of
in accordance with current regulations.

This documentation must include:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

1. Terms and conditions to which the processed application is subject.

2. Indication that said request for action has been verified by a third party in the
during a telephone call, indicating the date and time of verification.

3. Information on the right of revocation by the subscriber, indicating the
procedure to follow (at least, the beneficiary operator will have a number
telephone number belonging to the 901 range, where the subscriber may revoke his request) and
term to exercise it, in accordance with current regulations, without incurring
penalty or any expense on the part of the subscriber, which must be assumed by the
beneficiary operator.

4. The subscriber will be informed that in the event of a claim they should contact the
department or specialized customer service of the operator, within the term
of one month from the moment you become aware of the fact that motivates it (in
In the event that the claim is related to billing, it will be from the date of
receipt thereof), obtaining the reference number given to the claim.

Likewise, the subscriber will be informed that if, within a period of one month, he had not received
satisfactory response from the operator, you can direct your claim through the following
routes, in accordance with the regulations of each body:

Secretary of State for Telecommunications and for the Information Society
(SETSI), consultation telephone number 901 33 66 99 and website http://www.usuriosteleco.es

Consumer Arbitration Boards, directly or through an Association of
Consumers."

V

In accordance with the evidence available at this time, and
without prejudice to what results from the investigation of this disciplinary procedure, it is
considers that the claimed entity has violated the confidentiality required in the
processing of personal data, since despite the indicated security measures,
the claimant's line has been ported to another company without his
consent.

It has been proven that VODAFONE issued a duplicate invoice on 09/05/2021, which
was requested by telephone, together with a request for data information
banks and the banking entity, the entity not having provided accreditation
documentation of the transfer of the security policy to the applicant for its correct
identification, nor if the security key was requested from the applicant to carry out this
management.

Regarding the change of email address mentioned by the claimant, the
VODAFONE representatives indicate that there are no interactions. Yes it is found,
in the history of interactions, one from 09/05/2021 17:07 through which they modify
the customer data, without further annotations, not containing any type of accreditation

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

documentation of the transfer of the security policy to the applicant for identification, or
on the request for the security key to carry out this process.

Regarding portability, the process begins at LOWI, as the receiving operator of the
portability. VODAFONE, as a donor operator, accepts the portability whose
request arrives from another operator with the correct data, having verified that
the applicant (alleged impersonator) provided them in a telephone call to LOWI.

(…)

LOWI has provided the voice recording of the portability request conversation
of 09/10/2021 as documentary accreditation, indicating that it is the legal recording
of portability.

LOWI has stated that in March 2022 it has incorporated into its procedure of
portability with legal recording, control over the line to be carried, consisting of the
making a call to it, to avoid fraudulent portability.

Regarding the contracting of parcel services to send the SIM cards,
card necessary to carry out the portability, LOWI has not provided documentation
that reflects the shipping method contracted and that proves the way to identify the
SIM card receiver.

Therefore, this Agency considers that we are facing a violation of the
Article 32 of the GDPR, since the security measures of the requested entity do not
are adequate allowing identity theft, having proceeded to the
issuance of a duplicate invoice and change of email address to a
third party other than the owner of such data, so it is considered that they should be
improved after it has been verified that they have not been sufficient to avoid the
reported facts.

In relation to the portability of the line carried out by LOWI, we also find ourselves
in the event of a violation of article 32 of the GDPR for carrying out said portability without
have adequate security measures on the part of the claimed entity,
that the existing ones did not prevent the identity theft of the owner of the line
object of said portability and the delivery of the SIM card to a person who was not the
line holder.

In this sense, it must be taken into account that as of 10/13/2022, VODAFONE
SPAIN has absorbed VODAFONE ENABLER (LOWI), so this Agency
considers that it is VODAFONE ESPAÑA who has to answer for the portability
improperly carried out by VODAFONE ENABLER (LOWI), not having the
consent of the owner of the line, since VODAFONE inherits the breaches
made by LOWI.

Therefore, we must consider that VODAFONE, without prejudice to what results from
the instruction, allowed a change of e-mail address of the claimant, a
duplicate of the invoice at the request of a third party other than the owner of the line without there being
accredited that the security policy was passed to the applicant for its correct
identification, nor that the security key was requested, which is an infringement
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

of art. 32 of the GDPR. In addition, it was carried out by LOWI, an entity absorbed by the entity
claimed, the portability of the line object of this procedure, without checking
adequately the identity of the applicant, nor the identity of the person to whom
delivered the SIM card, which implies a second violation of article 32 of the
GDPR, by not adopting the necessary security measures to guarantee the
protection of the personal data of its clients.

SAW

On the other hand, we can consider that LOWI requested the portability of the line and tried to
the data of the claimant without having a legal basis, according to the Circular
1/2009 of the CMT (currently CNMC), which introduces consent
verbal with verification by a third party in the contracting of regulated wholesale services
of fixed communications, as well as in requests for conservation of numbering,
as indicated in the legal basis IV.

Therefore, by virtue of said regulation, it is the beneficiary operator who has
to verify that there is verbal consent and cannot process the request if it is not
has such consent.

Therefore we could say that we are facing a violation of article 6
of the GDPR in accordance with the legal basis III as it lacks a basis of
legitimacy to carry out said portability, by not following the established protocol
in Circular 1/2009 of the CMT, indicated in the legal basis IV.

Article 58.2 of the GDPR provides the following: "Each control authority shall have
of all of the following corrective powers listed below:

VII

d) order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

VIII

The violation of article 6 of the GDPR can be sanctioned with a fine of 20,000,000
€ maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the one with the highest amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

Violations of article 32 of the GDPR can be sanctioned with a fine of 10
€000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to
2% maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the one with the highest amount, in accordance with article 83.4 of the
GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanctions to be imposed in accordance with
the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR:

- Linking the activity of those investigated with the performance of treatment of
personal data: the development of the business activity carried out
entities require continuous processing of personal data.

- Recurrence of infractions already resolved in relation to the same facts:
there are several sanctioning procedures resolved, or in process at the signing of the
present report, for violations by VODAFONE in the last year in relation to
security measures and customer identification, such as references
PS/00001/2021,
 PS/00296/2022, PS/295/2022, PS/290/2022, PS/00324/2022,
PS/611/2022.

- Business volume is 2,954 million euros and 3,064 employees.

- Nature of the most serious damages caused to the claimant: possible breach of
security in the second step of banking or financial operations that use
as a second authentication step, confirmation of the operation by SMS, with
possible economic damages for the claimant only if the impersonator is also
in knowledge of other data, necessary for the first step of authentication, such
such as credentials (username and passwords) used in entities
banking/financial

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, IT IS AGREED:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the
GDPR, for the alleged violation of article 6 of the GDPR, typified in article
83.5.b) of the GDPR for processing the data of the claimant to process the portability of
the line without legitimation base.

SECOND: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the
GDPR, for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in article
83.4.a) of the GDPR for allowing a change of the complainant's e-mail address, without
have your consent, and issue a duplicate invoice at the request of a
third party other than the owner of the line.

THIRD: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the
GDPR, for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in article
83.4.a) of the GDPR for processing a portability without ascertaining the identity of the
applicant and for the delivery of the SIM card to a person who was not the holder of the
line without having adequate security measures to prevent impersonation
of identity.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

FOURTH: APPOINT as instructor R.R.R. and, as secretary, to S.S.S., indicating
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector (LRJSP).

FIFTH: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection during the
investigation phase, as well as the report of previous inspection actions.

SIXTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations,
for processing the data of the claimant to process the portability of the line without a base
of legitimation, a sanction of €70,000 (seventy thousand euros) would correspond, for the
violation of article 6 of the GDPR, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

SEVENTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations,
for allowing a change of the claimant's e-mail address, without having his
consent, and issue a duplicate invoice at the request of a third party outside the
owner of the line, would be subject to a penalty of €50,000 (fifty thousand euros), for
the violation of article 32 of the GDPR, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

EIGHTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations,
for processing a portability without ascertaining the identity of the applicant and for the
delivery of the SIM card to a person who was not the owner of the line without having
the appropriate security measures to prevent identity theft,
a sanction of €50,000 (fifty thousand euros) would correspond, for the infringement of the
Article 32 of the GDPR, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

NINTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF
A80907397, granting a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction on the three sanctions would remain for a total of €136,000, resolving the
sanction procedure.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction
on the three sanctions would remain for a total of €136,000 and its payment will imply the
completion of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the total amount to be paid for the
three sanctions would be established at 102,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated €136,000 or €102,000, you must make it effective through your
deposit in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.,
indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for reducing the amount to which
welcomes.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-260122

>>

SECOND: On January 17, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 136,000 euros using one of the two
reductions provided for in the Commencement Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, there has not
The acknowledgment of responsibility has been accredited.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202103912, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

937-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

