 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, August 30, 2019

 

press release

 

Blood donation service under scrutiny

 
 

 

The Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) examines in a focused

ted data protection check the website of the blood donation service of the Bavarian Red

cross. The reason for the audit was the use of tracking tools on the website of the

blood donation services. The BayLDA checks in particular whether sensitive health data of the

users were processed by Facebook.

Use of tracking tools in the "donation check"

The blood donation service publishes a so-called "donation check" on its website. About this check can

Let users determine if they are eligible for a donation. The user answers numerous questions about this

Questions about his health. These include i.a. Information on serious illnesses, drug

sum and pregnancy. Third-party tracking tools were embedded on the website, including

also a marketing tool from Facebook.

 

Website operators integrate third-party tracking tools to record how users interact with their own website

surf site. For example, website operators can determine where a user comes from, which device

he uses and what content he is interested in. This usage data can be used for various purposes

be used, e.g. B. for advertising, to optimize the website or to prevent fraud in online

stores.

 

The Facebook pixel is mainly used by companies for advertising purposes. For this purpose, first

data is collected, then merged across websites in order to finally

to create this usage profile. The user profile can be used to identify interests or personal characteristics of the user

conclude users. This makes it possible to advertise the user in a target group-oriented manner.

 

Examination by the BayLDA

When using tracking tools, numerous data protection requirements must be observed. This includes

not only to inform the user in simple and clear language about tracking tools. The website operator

must also ensure that it lawfully embeds the tracking tools, i.e. H. that a legal basis the

Integration allowed or the user has given his consent in advance.

 

In the media reports, the blood donation service is accused of having the health data of the

User submitted to Facebook.

 
 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

Whether the use of the Facebook pixel was lawful and health data was processed is the subject

of the test procedure.

 

"Should the accusation prove to be correct, this represents a serious violation that must be punished accordingly

is. What is not clear to many: it is not the website operator who integrates a tracking tool on the website

transmits data to the provider of the tracking tool, but the provider itself collects the data directly from the user.

Nevertheless, this is only made possible by the integration on the website. This not only applies to Facebook,

but also for other tracking tools such as e.g. Google Analytics. Because we were also able to use this tool on the

determine the website,” says Thomas Kranig, President of the BayLDA.

 

What to consider when using tracking tools

The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments, a body of

German supervisory authorities, published a comprehensive guide on the use of in March 2019

Tracking tools informed. In the paper, website operators learn which requirements they have to observe

ben. The guidance is available at:

 

 

https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/oh/20190405_oh_tmg.pdf

The General Data Protection Regulation grants the supervisory authorities extensive powers to

be stopped or sanctioned with a fine. Whether and if so, which measures the BayLDA im

Case of the blood transfusion service will take depends on the result of the examination, which is still ongoing

is.

 

“This case shows that it's not just regulators who audit websites, but basically everyone with little

Effort via the browser can test which tracking tools are integrated on a website. The risk,

that users become aware of a violation and report it to the supervisory authority is a requirement for websites

particularly high. Website operators should be aware of this and pay special attention to the fact that

tools are not used naively, of which they do not even know how the data of the users are processed

become,” says Thomas Kranig.

 

 

Thomas Kranig

president

 

 

