1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00126/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on July 21, 2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against CREATOR ENERGY, S.L., with NIF B67301036 (hereinafter, the claimed party).

The claimant expresses the use of their personal data without their consent to
contract at your home the supplies of gas, electricity, in addition to a service of
maintenance called Servielectric Xpress. These contracts were discharged by
the claimed.

SECOND: In accordance with the mechanism prior to the admission for processing of the
claims made before the AEPD, provided for in article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), which consists of transferring the
same to the Data Protection Delegates designated by those responsible or
in charge of the treatment, or to these when they have not been designated, and with the purpose
indicated in the aforementioned article, the claim was transferred to the respondent on the 18th and 29th
September 2020, through the electronic notification service and the service
post office, to proceed with its analysis and provide a response within a month.
Being the same returned on September 29 and October 6, 2020. It was not received
response in this Agency by the claimed party.

THIRD: On October 28, 2020, after analyzing the documentation that was
in the file, a resolution was issued by the director of the AEPD, agreeing not to admit
to process the claim. The resolution was notified to the claimant on the 28th of
October 2020, through the Citizen Folder, according to confirmation of receipt
that appears in the file.
FOURTH: On November 6, 2020, the claimant files an optional appeal
of replacement through the Electronic Register of the AEPD, against the resolution relapsed in
file E/06596/2020, in which it shows its disagreement with the resolution
challenged, and provides new documentation and new facts, stating that on the part
of the claimed, responsible for the collection of their personal data and treatment of the
Without their consent, no information or clarification has been received.

Consequently, the director of the AEPD resolves on March 10, 2021,
estimate the replacement resource.

FIFTH: On April 16, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 6.1.b) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

and considered very serious in 72.1.b), for prescription purposes, setting a sanction
initial 6,000 euros (six thousand euros).

SIXTH: Having been notified electronically, the start agreement. being the date
of making available on April 16, 2021 and the date of automatic rejection on the day
27 of the same month and year.

SEVENTH
 : Formal notification of the start agreement, the one claimed at the time of the
 
This resolution has not submitted a brief of allegations, so the following is applicable:
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in its section f) establishes
that in case of not making allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the agreement
of initiation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a
precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility, for which we proceed to
dictate Resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data in this procedure are considered proven facts the following:

FACTS

FIRST: It is stated that the claimed party used the personal data of the claimant to
contract gas and electricity supplies, as well as a maintenance service
called Servielectric Xpress, not requested by the claimant.

SECOND: It is verified that said contracts were registered by the defendant.

THIRD: It is stated that the respondent did not respond to this Agency, after the requirements
made on September 18 and October 6, 2020.

FOURTH: On April 16, 2021, this sanctioning procedure was initiated for the infraction
of article 6.1.b) of the RGPD, being notified on the 27th of the same month and year. Nope
having made allegations, the respondent, to the initial agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure.

II

                     Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

                 "1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for the
imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in particular, the
following:

  (…)
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.”

III

In the present case, it is important to point out that if the contracting
fraudulent use of a product and the consent to execute said contract has been
provided by a person other than the owner of the data (identity theft), not
we can understand that there is contractual consent on the part of the latter, that
is harmed.

In legal terms, we can consider that in this situation of fraud there is no
would have perfected the legal business, which would determine the non-existence of legitimation
to process the personal data of the interested party. And this because, once the contract is signed,
the legal basis of the treatment that legitimizes the contractor as controller
to treat the personal data of the owner of these in a contracting of a product
would be the one provided for in art. 6.1.b) of the RGPD.

For this legal basis of art. 6.1.b) of the RGPD exists and legitimizes the treatment
data of the holder necessary for the execution of a contract, it is required that the data
are supplied by their owner, which does not happen when the identity is supplanted. Yes
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

No, it would be producing a treatment of personal data with respect to a contract or
service that has not been requested.

Therefore, to avoid fraud, it must be verified that the
contractual consent is provided by the true owner of the data, and must
perform the contractor due diligence in the process of identification and verification of
identity of the contracting person. The SAN of April 29, 2010 considers that "the
question (...) is not so much to elucidate whether the appellant processed the personal data of the
complainant without their consent, such as whether or not they used reasonable diligence in
of trying to identify the person with whom he signed the financing contract”.

Identity theft is a risk considered specifically by the
legislator, according to recital 75 of the RGPD and art. 28 of the LOPDGDD, which imposes
those responsible for processing the deployment of all due diligence to eradicate it
or minimize it, within the framework of its proactive responsibility. This risk implies important
risks, consequently greater diligence, greater reinforcement of security measures
security (considering 94 of the RGPD in relation to the mitigation of damages) for
obtain a valid contractual consent from its true owner, especially if it can
involving minors or vulnerable people.

The correct identification of clients and the adoption of diligent measures to
verifying your identity then falls squarely within the scope of data protection
personal, because, if not, the risk of identity theft would materialize, which
Probable form can materialize in this type of contracting.

Therefore, we can consider that due diligence is the attention of duty

legal care.

Being duly diligent implies, in terms of that legal duty of care, preventing
the materialization of the risk (identity theft) establishing with character
in advance of treatment, an effective system of appropriate measures to prevent it; such
system must be constantly evaluated. As the jurisprudence affirms, the
responsibility derives from the actions of those who are responsible for being diligent and
“cannot be considered excluded or attenuated by the fact that the possible
fraudulent action of a third party, since the responsibility of the plaintiff does not derive
of his actions, but of his own”.

Accordingly, due diligence is made up of four elements: identifying
(assessment of the actual and potential impact of data processing activities);
prevent, mitigate (through follow-up and monitoring) and, finally, be accountable
(communicating the way in which the negative consequences of the
improper data processing). And all this, within a continuous process.

Due diligence, which must be appropriate to the business environments in which
the person responsible for the treatment moves, it includes not only the adoption of measures
techniques and organization appropriate to the treatment in question, but the ability to
prove their compliance.

Therefore, the data controller must “be obliged to apply measures
timely and effective and must be able to demonstrate the conformity of the activities of
treatment with this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. sayings
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

Measures should take into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
treatment, as well as the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
Recital 74 of the RGPD.

Demonstrating due diligence is essential, not being enough to allege the
absence of fault, because as affirmed by the National High Court, for all the Judgment
278/2015 of June 30, 2015 (Rec. 163/2014), "To the above must be added, following
the judgment of January 23, 1998, partially transcribed in the SSTS of October 9
of 2009, Rec 5285/2005, and of October 23, 2010, Rec 1067/2006, that "although the
culpability of the conduct must also be the object of proof, must be considered in
order to the assumption of the corresponding load, which ordinarily the elements
volitional and cognitive skills necessary to appreciate it are part of the behavior
tested, and that its exclusion requires proof of the absence of such elements,
or in its normative aspect, that the diligence that was required by the person has been used
alleges its non-existence; not enough, in short, to exculpate behavior
typically unlawful the invocation of the absence of fault".

In conclusion, in order to act with due diligence, the data controller
must comply with the RGPD and the LOPDGDD and establish mechanisms in advance
adequate to verify the identity of the people whose personal data is going to be processed or
treats (if it subsequently detects, during the treatment, an impersonation of
identity), to ensure, ultimately, that it has legitimacy to deal with such
personal information.

IV

The documentation in the file shows that the defendant violated the
article 6.1 of the RGPD, every time you carried out the treatment and communicated your data
without legitimacy to do so in order to register supply contracts
of energy not requested by the claimant, without having proven that there was
legitimately contracted, had legal coverage for the collection and treatment
of your personal data, or there is any other cause that makes the
treatment carried out.

Consequently, it has carried out a processing of personal data without

accredited that it has the legal authorization to do so.

Article 6.1 RGPD says that the treatment "will be lawful if it is necessary for the

performance of a contract to which the interested party is a party.

It was therefore essential that the respondent accredit before this Agency that the
The claimant had contracted with her the supplies of gas, electricity, in addition to a
maintenance service called Servielectric Xpress.

The respondent did not reply to this Agency, after the requirements made on 18
September and October 6, 2020, nor did it make allegations to the initiation agreement
of this sanctioning procedure.

v

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

                 In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

                  “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case effective,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures referred to in article
58, section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its
amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied in
under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case, in
what measure;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in
related to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

          "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis,
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the sanction
fine to be imposed on the defendant, as responsible for an infraction typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, the following factors are considered concurrent:

-

The intentionality or negligence of the infraction (art. 83.2 b).

- Basic present identifiers are affected (name, address,

bank account number) (art. 83.2 g)

This is why it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the person claimed and

set it at the amount of €6,000 for the infringement of article 6.1.b) of the RGPD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CREATOR ENERGY, S.L, with NIF B67301036, for an infringement
of Article 6.1b) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, a fine of 6,000
euros (six thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CREATOR ENERGY, S.L, with NIF
B67301036.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
that this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of art. 98.1.b)
of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period
established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Real
Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number of
procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. Otherwise, the
will proceed to its collection in executive period.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term will be
until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this

Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of
the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm decision may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through
any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1
october. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that accredits the
effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency did not have
knowledge of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two
months from the day following the notification of this resolution, I would consider
The precautionary suspension has ended.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

