 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, September 20, 2019

 

press release

 

Data power and abuse of power - more data protection now!

 
Richard Gutjahr, journalist, reports in the event series of the data
Tuesdays, September 23, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the museum
for communication about data power and abuse of power.

 

The topic:

In 2015, Richard Gutjahr was one of five international directors at the interactive

ven web documentary series "Do not track" with. The seven-part series was created in co-production with the

Bayerischer Rundfunk, ARTE and the National Filmboard of Canada (NFB) and addressed this

Business with our data by means of tracking and asked how algorithms evaluate Big Data and

aimed to give Internet users back control over their data. How is the situation now?

four years later? Richard Gutjahr will provide the answer.

Target group:

Everyone is invited - whether young or old, technology guru or just an occasional driver on the

information superhighway. Everyone leaves traces of data there and usually does not know who is doing what with it.

The referee:

Richard Gutjahr graduated from the German School of Journalism in Munich and studied at the Ludwig

Maximilian University Studied politics and communication science. After stations at the

Süddeutsche Zeitung, CNN and WDR, Richard Gutjahr now works as a freelance reporter for ARD.

He presented news and magazine programs on Bavarian television for 20 years. Besides

he writes and wrote as a columnist for the Rheinische Post, the Münchner Abendzeitung or the

Berliner Tagesspiegel and for various specialist magazines.

 

The series of events:

Since 2015, the Museum for Communication in Nuremberg, the professional association of

Data Protection Officer of Germany e.V. (BvD) and the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection

supervisory authority (BayLDA) the “Data Tuesday” lecture series. There is a lecture once a month

basically deals with questions of data protection and data security, but always also

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

piece also keeps an eye on the social relevance of the topics. These lectures are

designed for the general public and not (only) for a specialist audience. In the subsequent discussion

sion, the speakers are always available for a discussion.

 

The event takes place on

  

 

Tuesday, September 23, 2019 at 7 p.m.

in the Museum of Communication,

Lessingstrasse 6

90443 Nuremberg

Admission is free. Afterwards you are invited for a drink.

 

Information on these and the follow-up events of Data Tuesday can be found on the page
of the Museum for Communication (https://www.mfk-nuernberg.de/datendienstag/) and also on the
BayLDA website (www.lda.bayern.de).
 

Thomas Kranig

president

 

