 
Reporting "Data Breaches"
with Bavarian authorities

Published by the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
a new guideline “obligation to report and notification
duty of the person responsible”.

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, June 5th, 2019

A year has passed since the data protection reform of 2018. to the new
ments include a duty to report data breaches and a
Obligation to notify data subjects who are particularly
ders serious cases intervenes. The Bavarian public authorities
government and non-governmental, especially municipal
len area meet these obligations.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "Due to the numerous reports I received
In the event of 'data breaches', a situational picture 'data security in Bavaria' is created,
which enables targeted preventive data protection work. The Mel
ments prompt me to regularly make recommendations to the
reporting public bodies. The level of data security
ity is continuously improved. affected citizens
In the case of a mandatory notification, you will also receive information
to exercise their rights effectively.”

Based on the experience gained so far, the Bavarian
cal State Commissioner for Data Protection, the orientation guide "Mel-
obligation and notification obligation of the person responsible” published,
which addresses numerous questions of doubt and the relevant regulations
the General Data Protection Regulation and Bavarian state law
comprehensively explained for Bavarian administrative practice. while doing
the guidance makes it clear that not every violation of data
protective regulations, but only a breach of security

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05.06.2019 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
personal data, the reporting and, if necessary, the notification
liability triggers. She continues to give advice to public authorities
 
Recommendations for simplified risk analysis and usage
the one introduced when the General Data Protection Regulation came into force
online reporting form.

The new orientation guide is available today at https://www.datenschutz-
bayern.de in the “Data Protection Reform 2018” section for free access
provided.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

