1. Reprimand - final  
  

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA  

PROTECTION REGULATION  

REPRIMAND  

TO: NHS FIFE  

OF: Hayfield house,        Hayfield Road,         Kirkcaldy,        KY2 
5AH  

  

  

  

  
  

1.1 The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
reprimand to NHS FIFE in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK 
General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) in respect of certain 
infringements of the UK GDPR.    
  
The reprimand  
  
1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to NHS FIFE in 
respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR:  
   

• Article 5 (1)(f) which states that personal data shall be processed in a 

manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures (‘integrity and 
confidentiality’).   

  

1.3   The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.   

  

1.4   NHS FIFE is as medium sized territorial Health Board consisting of  

Acute Services, Community Services (Health and Social Care 
Partnership) and Corporate Services. NHS FIFE are responsible for 
processing personal data, including special category health data. 
The alleged incident breach took place within one of the sites NHS 
FIFE is responsible for, 

 

  

  

.   

1  

1.5   The investigation found that NHS FIFE are not compliant with Article 

5(1)(f) and Article 32 (2) of the UK GDPR due to an unauthorised 
individual gaining access to a ward, 

 
 Due to lack of identification checks and an unclear process, 

the unauthorised individual was handed a document (SBAR) 
containing personal data of 14 individuals and assisted with 
administering care to one patient. The personal data on the SBAR 
included personal identifiers and special category health data. The 
SBAR was taken off site by the unauthorised individual, and the 
data has not been recovered to date.  
  

1.6   There are failings surrounding the security of the data, specifically 

the SBAR documents. At the time of the incident there was no 
procedure in place to document whether SBARs were destroyed 
correctly or collected at the end of the shift. One of the reasons for 
the delay in reporting the matter to the ICO was due to NHS Fife 
being unable to ascertain whether the SBAR document had left the 
site.   

  
1.7   During the course of our investigation, it was noted that the training 
rate of NHS FIFE as a whole is 42%, although the ICO is aware that 
ward staff training is at 82%. NHS FIFE state the reason this is not 
100% is due to the Covid-19 pandemic. NHS FIFE also stated they 
complete refresher training every three years, as this was agreed at 
national level for NHS Scotland Boards. 

  
1.8   Furthermore, although CCTV was installed within the hospital and a 

CCTV policy was in place, the wall socket, which the CCTV was 
plugged in to, had been accidently turned off by a member of staff 
prior to the incident taking place, as part of an energy saving 
exercise. The ICO understands this has now been rectified. Although 
CCTV would not have prevented the incident from occurring, the 
lack of CCTV meant that the police and NHS FIFE have been 
unsuccessful in identifying the individual and therefore unable to 
recover the lost data. Due to this, there is a potential on-going risk 
to the data subjects as the intentions of the unauthorised individual 
are unknown.   
  

1.9   Article 32 (2) states ‘the appropriate level of security account shall 
be taken in particular of the risks that are presented by processing, 
in particular from accident or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, 
unauthorised disclosure of, or access to personal data transmitted, 

  

2  

stored or otherwise processed.’ NHS FIFE did not have adequate 
measures to ensure the security of the data they were processing.  
Furthermore, the low training rates  and outdated or incorrectly 
labelled policies can also be considered can also be considered a 
contributing factor in this incident and raises concerns about the 
approach and attitude to data protection at NHS FIFE.  
  

Remedial steps taken by NHS FIFE  
  
1.10 The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial 
steps taken by NHS FIFE in the light of this incident. In particular 
introducing a system on the ward for the documents containing 
patient data to be signed in and out of each shift.   
  

1.11 Furthermore, although there is still no formal process 

 

 
has been revisited and individuals will not be able to 
commence their shift until their identification has been verified and 
cross-referenced. NHS FIFE have stated they are developing a 
standard operating procedure 
complete, this will be implemented on all wards.  

, the ID process 

 and, once 

  
Decision to issue a reprimand  
  

1.12 Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand 
to NHS FIFE in relation to the  infringements of Article 5 (1) (f) and 
Article 32 of the UK GDPR set out above.  

  
Further Action Recommended  
  
1.13 The Commissioner recommends that NHS FIFE should take certain 

steps to ensure its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular 
reference to Article 5 (1) (f) and Article 32 of the UK GDPR, the 
following steps are recommended:  

1.  NHS FIFE should consider improving their overall training rate, 

inline with current legislation. In the course of the investigation it 
was noted that refresher training is taken three-yearly. NHS FIFE 
should consider giving refresher data protection training to all staff 
more frequently. This should be underpinned by written guidance 

3  

  
  

  

for employees to follow and NHS FIFE should satisfy itself that 
security is discussed within the training and guidance.   
  

2.  At the time of the breach, it was noted that NHS FIFE did not have 
any written guidance or policies in relation to ID verification. NHS 
FIFE should consider developing the guidance or a policy in relation 
to bank staff attending the hospitals.   

3.  NHS FIFE should review all policies available from their intranet. If 

archived versions are needed on the system these should be clearly 
marked as a previous version.    
  

4.  In order to ensure compliance with Article 33 (1), NHS FIFE should 

revisit their data breach reporting process and ensure relevant 
personal data breaches are reported within 72 hours. UK GDPR data 
breach reporting (DPA 2018) | ICO  

  
  
1.14 We invite NHS FIFE to provide a progress update of the following 

measures in six months of the date of this reprimand, ie by 6 June 
2024.   

2.  The effectiveness of the standard operating procedure in relation to 

bank staff attending the hospitals.  

3.  The implementation and effectiveness of the ID process 

  

 

4.  The data protection training rates and the steps taken to improve 

this.    

5.  The steps taken to update the relevant policies in line with the UK 

GDPR.   
  
  
  

  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

4  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

