THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

PRESS RELEASE

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink
Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

September 24, 2021

 “Freedom of Information – Information Liberation

through transparency” – Diverse program at the

2nd IFG-Days on October 6th and 7th:

"Freedom of Information", "Transparency" - What does that mean

actually? What information can citizens of

public authorities receive and how to give them properly

Information? And what can you actually do with the information?

start everything?

At the 2nd IFG-Days, experts come online and on site

and citizens together and see where and how exactly

freedom of information applies and how

Transparency helps separate facts from fake news

differentiate.

The state representative Dr. Stefan Brink: "Official

Information belongs to the citizenry. We support them

Citizens in their right to official information

receive. And we support public authorities in this

to provide information. The IFG-Days offer

an ideal platform for the exchange and the

Continuing education."

- 2 -

The IFG-Days will start on October 6, 2021 at 5 p.m

o'clock with a discussion round of the professionals in things

Transparency: Lea Pfau from FragDenstaat, Dr. Manfred

Redelfs from the network research e. V. and the

Science journalist Peter Wehring will join in the discussion

Stefan Brink on how information is generated and

can be used

 

At 7 p.m. the documentary "In the network of lies - der

Fighting Fake News”, a report about the

Project of the team around Professor Wolfgang Schweiger from the

University of Hohenheim. Afterwards, Wolfgang will speak

Schweiger and Stefan Brink on the background and

Results of this experiment.

 

On Thursday, October 7, 2021, it goes from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m

with exciting lectures and interactive workshops

by experts from the journalists’ associations, the administration,

by non-governmental organizations and

educational institutions further. Current ones are presented

Projects, experiences and things worth knowing about the

Freedom of Information.

 

In cooperation with the State Center for Political

Education BW, for example, interested parties can also attend

contribute, an online course on freedom of information for

to develop students.

 

The conclusion of the IFG Days is a panel discussion

Representatives of the parliamentary groups in Baden-Württemberg

among other things, the topic “further development of the

Freedom of Information” will address.
  
 
For registration:
https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-
event-2021-014/
 

