 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Frequently Asked Questions on the judgment of the Court 
of Justice of the European Union in Case C-311/18 - Data 

Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd and 

Maximillian Schrems  

Adopted on 23 July 2020 

This  document  aims  at  presenting  answers  to  some  frequently  asked  questions  received  by 
supervisory authorities (“SAs”) and will be developed and complemented along with further analysis, 
as the EDPB continues to examine and assess the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European 
Union (the “Court”). 

The judgment C-311/18 can be found here, and the press release of the Court may be found here. 

1)  What did the Court rule in its judgment? 

  In  its  judgment,  the  Court  examined  the  validity  of  the  European  Commission’s  Decision 
2010/87/EC  on  Standard  Contractual  Clauses  (“SCCs”)  and  considered  it  is  valid.  Indeed,  the 
validity  of  that  decision  is  not  called  into  question  by  the  mere  fact  that  the  standard  data 
protection  clauses in  that  decision  do  not,  given  that they  are  contractual in  nature, bind the 
authorities of the third country to which data may be transferred. 

However, that validity, the Court added, depends on whether the 2010/87/EC Decision includes 
effective mechanisms that make it possible, in practice, to ensure compliance with the level of 
protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the EU by the GDPR and that transfers 
of personal data pursuant to such clauses are suspended or prohibited in the event of the breach 
of such clauses or it being impossible to honour them. 

In  that  regard,  the  Court  points  out,  in  particular,  that  the  2010/87/EC  Decision  imposes  an 
obligation on a data exporter and the recipient of the data (the “data importer”) to verify, prior 
to any transfer, and taking into account the circumstances of the transfer, whether that level of 
protection  is  respected  in  the  third  country  concerned,  and  that  the  2010/87/EC  Decision 
requires  the  data  importer  to  inform  the  data  exporter  of  any  inability  to  comply  with  the 
standard  data  protection  clauses,  and  where  necessary  with  any  supplementary  measures  to 
those  offered  by  those  clause,  the  data  exporter  then  being,  in  turn,  obliged  to  suspend  the 
transfer of data and/or to terminate the contract with the data importer 

1 

  The Court also examined the validity of the Privacy Shield Decision (Decision 2016/1250 on the 
adequacy of the protection provided by the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield), as the transfers at stake in 
the  context  of  the  national  dispute  leading  to  the  request  for  preliminary  ruling  took  place 
between the EU and the United States (“U.S.”). 

The  Court  considered  that  the  requirements  of  U.S.  domestic  law,  and  in  particular  certain 
programmes enabling access by U.S. public authorities to personal data transferred from the EU 
to the U.S. for national security purposes, result in limitations on the protection of personal data 
which are not circumscribed in a way that satisfies requirements that are essentially equivalent 
to those required under EU law1, and that this legislation does not grant data subjects actionable 
rights before the courts against the U.S. authorities. 

As a consequence of such a degree of interference with the fundamental rights of persons whose 
data  are  transferred  to  that  third  country,  the  Court  declared  the  Privacy  Shield  adequacy 
Decision invalid. 

2)  Does the Court’s judgment have implications on transfer tools other than the Privacy Shield? 

  In  general,  for  third  countries,  the  threshold  set  by  the  Court  also  applies  to  all  appropriate 
safeguards under Article 46 GDPR used to transfer data from the EEA to any third country. U.S. 
law referred to by the Court (i.e., Section 702 FISA and EO 12333) applies to any transfer to the 
U.S. via electronic means that falls under the scope of this legislation, regardless of the transfer 
tool used for the transfer2. 

3) 

Is  there  any  grace  period  during  which  I  can  keep  on  transferring  data  to  the  U.S.  without 
assessing my legal basis for the transfer? 

  No, the Court has invalidated the Privacy Shield Decision without maintaining its effects, because 
the U.S. law assessed by the Court does not provide an essentially equivalent level of protection 
to the EU. This assessment has to be taken into account for any transfer to the U.S. 

4) 

I was transferring data to a U.S. data importer adherent to the Privacy Shield, what should I do 
now? 

  Transfers on the basis of this legal framework are illegal. Should you wish to keep on transferring 
data to the U.S., you would need to check whether you can do so under the conditions laid down 
below. 

5) 

I am using SCCs with a data importer in the U.S., what should I do? 

  The Court found that U.S. law (i.e., Section 702 FISA and EO 12333) does not ensure an essentially 

equivalent level of protection. 

                                                             
1  The  Court  underlines  that  certain  surveillance  programmes  enabling  access  by  U.S.  public  authorities  to 
personal  data  transferred  from  the  EU  to  the  U.S.  for  national  security  purposes  do  not  provide  for  any 
limitations  on  the  power  conferred  on  the  U.S.  authorities,  or  the  existence  of  guarantees  for  potentially 
targeted non-US persons. 
2 Section 702 FISA applies to all “electronic communication service provider” (see the definition under 50 USC § 
1881(b)(4)), while  EO 12 333 organises electronic surveillance, which is defined as the “acquisition of a non-
public  communication  by  electronic  means  without  the  consent  of  a  person  who  is  a  party  to  an  electronic 
communication or, in the case of a non electronic communication, without the consent of a person who is visibly 
present at the place of communication, but not including the use of radio direction-finding equipment solely to 
determine the location of a transmitter” (3.4; b)). 

2 

Whether or not you can transfer personal data on the basis of SCCs will depend on the result of 
your  assessment,  taking  into  account  the  circumstances  of  the  transfers,  and  supplementary 
measures you could put in place. The supplementary measures along with SCCs, following a case-
by-case analysis of the circumstances surrounding the transfer, would have to ensure that U.S. 
law does not impinge on the adequate level of protection they guarantee. 

If you come to the conclusion that, taking into  account the circumstances of the transfer and 
possible  supplementary  measures,  appropriate  safeguards  would  not  be  ensured,  you  are 
required to suspend or end the transfer of personal data. However, if you are intending to keep 
transferring data despite this conclusion, you must notify your competent SA3. 

6) 

I am using Binding Corporate Rules (“BCRs”) with an entity in the U.S., what should I do? 

  Given the judgment of the Court, which invalidated the Privacy Shield because of the degree of 
interference created by the law of the U.S. with the fundamental rights of persons whose data 
are transferred to that third country, and the fact that the Privacy Shield was also designed to 
bring  guarantees  to  data  transferred  with  other  tools  such  as  BCRs,  the  Court’s  assessment 
applies as well in the context of BCRs, since U.S. law will also have primacy over this tool. 

Whether or not you can transfer personal data on the basis of BCRs will depend on the result of 
your  assessment,  taking  into  account  the  circumstances  of  the  transfers,  and  supplementary 
measures you could put in place. These supplementary measures along with BCRs, following a 
case-by-case analysis of the circumstances surrounding the transfer, would have to ensure that 
U.S. law does not impinge on the adequate level of protection they guarantee. 

If you come to the  conclusion that, taking into  account the circumstances of the transfer and 
possible  supplementary  measures,  appropriate  safeguards  would  not  be  ensured,  you  are 
required to suspend or end the transfer of personal data. However if you are intending to keep 
transferring data despite this conclusion, you must notify your competent SA4. 

7)  What about other transfer tools under Article 46 GDPR? 

  The EDPB will assess the consequences of the judgment on  transfer tools other than SCCs and 
BCRs. The judgement clarifies that the standard for appropriate safeguards in Article 46 GDPR is 
that of “essential equivalence”. 

As underlined by the Court, it should be noted that that Article 46 appears in Chapter V GDPR, 
and, accordingly, must be read in the light of Article 44 GDPR, which lays down that “all provisions 
in that chapter shall be applied in order to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons 
guaranteed by that regulation is not undermined”. 

 

 

                                                             
3 See in particular recital 145 of the Court’s judgment, and Clause 4(g) Commission decision 2010/87/EU, as well 
as Clause 5(a) Commission Decision 2001/497/EC and Annex Set II (c) of Commission Decision 2004/915/EC. 
4 See in particular recital 145 of the Court’s judgment and Clause 4(g) of Commission Decision 2010/87/EU. See 
also Section 6.3 WP256 rev.01 (Article 29 Working Party, Working Document setting up a table with the elements 
and  principles  to  be  found  in  BCRs,  endorsed  by  the  EDPB,  http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-
detail.cfm?item_id=614109),  and  Section  6.3  WP257  rev.01  (Article  29  Working  Party,  Working  Document 
setting  up  a  table  with  the  elements  and  principles  to  be  found  in  Processor  BCRs,  endorsed  by  the  EDPB, 
http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=614110). 

3 

8)  Can I rely on one of the derogations of Article 49 GDPR to transfer data to the U.S.? 

  It is still possible to transfer data from the EEA to the U.S. on the basis of derogations foreseen in 
Article 49 GDPR  provided  the  conditions set forth in  this Article apply. The EDPB  refers  to  its 
guidelines on this provision5.   

In  particular,  it  should  be  recalled  that  when  transfers  are  based  on  the  consent  of  the  data 
subject, it should be: 

  explicit,  

 

 

specific for the particular data transfer or set of transfers (meaning that the data exporter 
must make sure to obtain specific consent before the transfer is put in place even if this 
occurs after the collection of the data has been made), and  

informed,  particularly  as  to  the  possible  risks  of  the  transfer  (meaning  the  data  subject 
should  also  informed  of  the  specific  risks  resulting  from  the  fact  that  their  data  will  be 
transferred to a country that does not provide adequate protection and that no adequate 
safeguards aimed at providing protection for the data are being implemented). 

With regard to transfers necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject 
and the controller, it should be borne in mind that personal data may only be transferred when 
the transfer is occasional. It would have to be established on a case-by-case basis whether data 
transfers would be determined as “occasional” or “non-occasional”. In any case, this derogation 
can only be relied upon when the transfer is objectively necessary for the performance of the 
contract.   

In  relation  to  transfers  necessary  for  important  reasons  of  public  interest  (which  must  be 
recognized in EU or Member States’6 law), the EDPB recalls that the essential requirement for the 
applicability of this derogation is the finding of an important public interest and not the nature of 
the  organisation,  and  that  although  this  derogation  is  not  limited  to  data  transfers  that  are 
“occasional”, this does not mean that data transfers on the basis of the important public interest 
derogation  can  take  place  on  a  large  scale  and  in  a  systematic  manner.  Rather,  the  general 
principle needs to be respected according to which the derogations as set out in Article 49 GDPR 
should not become “the rule” in practice, but need to be restricted to specific situations and each 
data exporter needs to ensure that the transfer meets the strict necessity test. 

9)  Can I continue to use SCCs or BCRs to transfer data to another third country than the U.S.? 

  The Court has indicated that SCCs as a rule can still be used to transfer data to a third country, 
however the threshold set by the Court for transfers to the U.S. applies for any third country. The 
same goes for BCRs.  

The Court highlighted that it is the responsibility of the data exporter and the data importer to 
assess  whether  the  level  of  protection  required  by  EU  law  is  respected  in  the  third  country 
concerned  in  order  to  determine  if  the  guarantees  provided  by  the  SCCs  or  the  BCRs  can  be 
complied  with  in  practice.  If  this  is  not  the  case,  you  should  assess  whether  you  can  provide 
supplementary measures to ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in 
the EEA, and if the law of the third country will not impinge on these supplementary measures 
so as to prevent their effectiveness.  

                                                             
5 See EDPB Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 25 May 2018, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_2_2018_derogations_en.pdf, p.3. 
6 References to “Member States” should be understood as references to “EEA Member States”. 

4 

You can contact your data importer to verify the legislation of its country and collaborate for its 
assessment.  Should  you  or  the  data  importer  in  the  third  country  determine  that  the  data 
transferred pursuant to the SCCs or to the BCRs are not afforded a level of protection essentially 
equivalent to that guaranteed within the EEA, you should immediately suspend the transfers. In 
case you do not, you must notify your competent SA7. 

  Although, as underlined by the Court, it is the primary responsibility of data exporters and data 
importers to assess themselves that the legislation of the third country of destination enables the 
data  importer  to  comply  with  the  standard  data  protection  clauses  or  the  BCRs,  before 
transferring personal data to that third country, the SAs will also have a key role to play when 
enforcing the GDPR and when issuing further decisions on transfers to third countries.  

As invited by the Court, in order to avoid divergent decisions, they will thus further work within 
the  EDPB  in  order  to  ensure  consistency,  in  particular  if  transfers  to  third  countries  must  be 
prohibited.  

10)  What kind of supplementary measures can I introduce if I am using SCCs or BCRs to transfer 

data to third countries? 

  The supplementary measures you could envisage where necessary would have to be provided on 
a case-by-case basis, taking into account all the circumstances of the transfer and following the 
assessment of the law of the third country, in order to check if it ensures an adequate level of 
protection.  

The  Court  highlighted  that  it  is  the  primary  responsibility  of  the  data  exporter  and  the  data 
importer to make this assessment, and to provide necessary supplementary measures.  

The EDPB is currently analysing the Court’s judgment to determine the kind of supplementary 
measures  that  could  be  provided  in  addition  to  SCCs  or  BCRs,  whether  legal,  technical  or 
organisational measures, to transfer data to third countries where SCCs or BCRs will not provide 
the sufficient level of guarantees on their own. 

  The  EDPB 

is 

looking 

further 

into  what 

these 

supplementary  measures 

could 

consist of and will provide more guidance. 

11)  I am using a processor that processes data for which I am responsible as controller, how can I 

know if this processor transfers data to the U.S. or to another third country? 

  The contract you have concluded with your processor in accordance with Article 28.3 GDPR must 
provide whether transfers are authorised or not (it should be borne in mind that even providing 
access to data from a third country, for instance for administration purposes, also amounts to a 
transfer).  

  Authorization has also to be provided concerning processors to entrust sub-processors to transfer 
data  to  third  countries.  You  should  pay  attention  and  be  careful,  because  a  large  variety  of 
computing solutions may imply the transfer of personal data to a third country (e.g., for storage 
or maintenance purposes).  

                                                             
7 See in particular recital 145 of Court’s judgment . In relation to SCCs, see Clause 4(g) Commission Decision 
2010/87/EU, as well as Clause 5(a) Commission Decision 2001/497/EC and Annex Set II (c) Commission Decision 
2004/915/EC. In relation to BCRs, see Section 6.3 WP256 rev.01 (endorsed by the EDPB), and Section 6.3 WP257 
rev.01 (endorsed by the EDPB). 

5 

12)  What can I do to keep using the services of my processor if the contract signed in accordance 
with Article 28.3 GDPR indicates that data may be transferred to the U.S. or to another third 
country? 

  If your data may be transferred to the U.S. and neither supplementary measures can be provided 
to  ensure  that  U.S.  law  does  not  impinge  on  the  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection  as 
afforded in the EEA provided by the transfer tools, nor derogations under Article 49 GDPR apply, 
the only  solution  is  to negotiate  an amendment or supplementary clause to your contract  to 
forbid transfers to the U.S. Data should not only be stored but also administered elsewhere than 
in the U.S. 

  If your data may be transferred to another third country, you should also verify the legislation of 
that third country to check if it is compliant with the requirements of the Court, and with the level 
of protection of personal data expected. If no suitable ground for transfers to a third country can 
be found, personal data should not be transferred outside the EEA territory and all processing 
activities should take place in the EEA. 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

Andrea Jelinek 

6 

