
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    08/23/2019
                                Data leak in the Mastercard bonus program "Priceless Specials" - What those affected should do now©
                            TheDigitalWay / pixabay.comOn August 19, 2019 it became known that data from the Mastercard bonus program "Priceless Specials" had been tapped from a service provider's platform. According to the information available to date, this involved around 90,000 data records with names, email addresses, addresses, dates of birth, telephone numbers and, in some cases, encrypted credit card numbers.
Another list of complete credit card numbers is also circulating, the origin of which is not yet clear.
According to the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, once again how far digitization has penetrated our personal living environment and how quickly security risks can manifest themselves. “The risk of data leakage must always be taken into account when considering whether and how to use information society services. Reliable IT security must be consistently guaranteed, particularly when service providers are used outside of the direct control of the person responsible.”
The state commissioner advises the holders of a Mastercard, but especially the participants in the bonus program, to inquire whether they are affected by the current data breach. This can be checked, for example, using the HPI Identity Leak Checker from the Hasso Plattner Institute in Potsdam. This requires the e-mail address with which you registered with the bonus program.
Affected participants in the bonus program should contact Mastercard immediately to clarify the next steps. Irrespective of this, attention should be paid to irregularities in debits and credit card statements.
Captured data is often used for so-called phishing attacks in order to obtain further information and access data via existing contact data. The participants in the bonus program should therefore pay more attention to unusual contact attempts and check whether the sender is known in the case of messages - whether by e-mail, SMS or messenger. In particular, e-mail attachments and Internet links provided should not be clicked on carelessly.
Mastercard maintains a German representative office in Hesse. Therefore, the Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information coordinates the processing of data protection inquiries in Germany.
The Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information PO Box 316365021 Wiesbaden Telephone: 0611-1408 0 Fax: 0611-1408 611 E-Mail: poststelle(at)datenschutz.hessen.deInternet: https://datenschutz.hessen.de Mastercard has its European headquarters in Belgium. The competent supervisory authority is
Commission de la Protection de la Vie PrivéeRue de la Presse 351000 BrusselsTelephone: +32 (0)2 274 48 00Fax: +32 (0)2 274 48 35Email: commission(at)privacycommission.beInternet: https://www. privacycommission.beMore information:Press release from the Hessian data protection officerInformation from the consumer centers on the subject of identity theft
                                return
                            



