OFFICE FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Lt. Col. Sochora 27, 170 00 Prague 7
tel .: 234 665 111, fax: 234 665 444
posta@uoou.cz, www.uoou.cz

 
 

 

DECISION

* UOOUX00ELOPR *

Ref. UOOU-02022 / 20-24

 

Chairman of the Office for Personal Data Protection as an appellate body competent pursuant to § 10 and § 152
paragraph 2 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., the Administrative Procedure Code, decided pursuant to the provisions of § 152 para. b)
Act No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, as follows:

Appeal of the accused, XXXXXX, established XXXXXX against the decision of the Office for Personal Protection
data ref. UOOU-02022 / 20-11 of 4 August 2020, is rejected and the contested decision is annulled
confirms.

Justification

  Definition of things

[1] The basis for proceedings in the matter of suspicion of committing an offense pursuant to Section 62 (1)
letter b) of Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, in connection with the unauthorized
by publishing personal data on websites available at
XXXXXX was file material collected on the basis of complaints received by the Office for Protection
personal data (hereinafter referred to as the "Office") concerning possible breaches of processing obligations
personal data to the accused, XXXXXX, with its registered office at XXXXXX (hereinafter referred to as the “accused”).

[2] It was clear from the file that the accused was on the website in question
at an unspecified time, but at least from 11 May 2020, at least until
On 23 June 2020, he published documents containing the personal data of thirty data subjects in various
range consisting mostly of name, surname, title, birth number, birth surname, date
birth address, permanent residence address and other information provided in the individual
documents without this processing being evidenced by any of the legal titles provided for in the Regulation
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on cancellation
Directive 95/46 / EC (hereinafter "the General Regulation").

[3] For this reason, the administrative body of the first instance issued an order no. UOOU-
02022 / 20-5 of 23 June 2020, by which the conduct of the accused was classified as
offense according to § 62 par. 1 let. b) of Act No. 110/2019 Coll. and at the same time she was accused
a fine of CZK 150,000 was imposed. However, the order was subsequently revoked on the basis of opposition
accused.

 

1/4

[4] The result of the ongoing infringement proceedings was the issuance of decision no. UOOU-
02022 / 20-11 of 4 August 2020 (hereinafter "the decision"), which, however, again accused the accused
found guilty of committing an offense under § 62 para. b) of Act No. 110/2019 Coll. and was
he was fined CZK 150,000 for violating some of the basic principles of
processing of personal data pursuant to Articles 5 to 7 or 9 of the General Regulation, which is the controller
personal data has been committed by at least 11 May 2020, at least until
On June 23, 2020, thirty published documents containing the personal data of the decision
listed data subjects to varying degrees, consisting mainly of first name, last name, title,
birth number, maiden name, date of birth, permanent residence address and other information
contained in the individual documents mentioned in the operative part of the decision, without this
the processing was evidenced by one of the legal titles provided for in Article 6 (1) of the General Regulation. To be complete
It should be added that obvious inaccuracies in the statement and the justification of the written copy
decisions were corrected in accordance with the provisions of § 70 of the Administrative Procedure Code through
issuance of decision no. UOOU-02022 / 20-18 of 11 September 2020 and decision no. UOOU-
02022 / 20-19 of 14 October 2020.

[5] However, the accused objected to the decision on several occasions.

  Decomposition content

[6] In the dissolution, the accused primarily recalled an unspecified resolution
the supervising public prosecutor XXXXXX, according to which the entire server of the accused should be
as a result of a serious mental disorder and therefore no sanctions can be imposed on the accused or on
no deletions of information can be requested and no disclosure should take place.

[7] Furthermore, as the accused stated, the Office adjusts the reasoning not according to legal claims,
but above all according to the accused's stylistic arguments. It was supposed to happen first
"For some incidental information which, however, is part of the fundamental right to a public trial".
However, the moment the accused used an argument about the dissemination of all personal data by
cadastral offices, the Office should have argued that "this is all information about anything",
which would lead to the abolition of public service news, including the Internet.

[8] The accused also pointed out that he had been successful in one proceeding with the Office
compensation proceedings. Therefore, the accused asks that the Office no longer bother him by leading others
processes.

[9] The decomposition then contains a number of vulgarities, which, however, have none in the present proceedings

relevance.

[10] The accused therefore proposed that the contested decision be annulled in its entirety.

  Applicable law

[11] Article 6 (1) of the General Regulation reads: "Processing is lawful only if

at least one of the following conditions is met and only to the extent appropriate:

(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more
specific purposes;

(b) processing is necessary for performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party; or
to carry out pre-contractual measures at the request of that data subject;

 

2/4

(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the controller;

(d) processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or otherwise
Individuals;

(e) processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest; or
the exercise of official authority vested in the administrator;

f) processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests of the relevant controller or third party,
except where those interests take precedence over interests or fundamental rights and freedoms
data subject requiring the protection of personal data, in particular if he is a data subject
child."

[12] Provisions of § 62 par. 1 let. b) of Act No. 110/2019 Coll. reads: "Administrator or processor
under Title II, it commits an offense by:. (b) infringes any of the basic principles for
processing of personal data pursuant to Articles 5 to 7 or 9 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU)
2016/679 “.

 Assessment by a second instance body

[13] The appellate body reviewed the contested decision on the basis of the appeal
in its entirety, including the process that preceded its release, and first dealt with it
arguments of the accused.

[14] In particular, he found that the defendant's arguments in the appeal were missing
logical consistency and also, as mentioned above, contains a number of vulgarities with which to appeal
the authority also does not intend to deal in any way due to their irrelevance.

[15] Despite the above, the Appellate Body found that the defendant's arguments concerning
The adjustment of reasoning and mental disorder has not been documented and has not been documented
no support in the file. In the same way, as follows mainly from the official record
Ref. UOOU-02022 / 20-3 of 11 May 2020 issued by a first instance administrative authority,
there is no doubt that the personal data in question were disclosed to the accused.

 

[16] As for the published extracts from the real estate cadastre, it is a public list.
However, it is also necessary to recall § 53 of Act No. 256/2013 Coll., On Real Estate Cadastre,
according to which the data in question can be used in accordance with § 1 paragraph 2 of the Act
No. 256/2013 Coll., ie to protect real estate rights, for the purposes of taxes, fees and others
similar pecuniary benefits, for the protection of the environment, for the protection of mineral wealth,
to protect the interests of state monument care, for territorial development, for real estate valuation and for
scientific, economic and statistical purposes, including the development of related information systems,
the defendant clearly exceeded this framework. Furthermore, it would be possible according to § 53 of the Act
No. 256/2013 Coll. disseminate data from the cadastre under the conditions of the implementing regulation and
with the consent of the Czech Surveying and Cadastre Office, however, none was charged
he did not provide such consent.

 

[17] The Appellate Body also recalls that the previous or other proceedings conducted by the Office
they have no direct influence on the accused in these proceedings. Accused in addition for annulment
one of the statements of the decision no. UOOU-09787 / 18-11 of 19 December 2018 erroneously
concludes that it was entirely successful in the present proceedings.

 

3/4



[18] Overall, the Appellate Body did not find, in agreement with the first instance administrative body
no relevant legal title attesting to the processing in question. Accused primarily
has not substantiated any consent of the data subject. The disclosure of personal data in question is also not possible
qualify in accordance with Article 6 (1) (a) (c) and (e) of the General Regulation as processing which is
necessary for the performance of tasks imposed by law or for the performance of a task performed in
public interest or the exercise of official authority. Such processing would have to be established
another supplementary legal title. It is also § 17 of Act No. 110/2019 Coll. enabling
process personal data for journalistic purposes (or the latter provision
represents a legal title for public intelligence, including the Internet), if possible
conclude that there is a legitimate interest in the data being included in the case
public debate. This is especially true when public officials are involved
its public activities. However, nothing like this can be proved or treated in the treated cases
deduce. In addition, processing under Article 6 (1) (a) would be possible. (f) general
Regulation if necessary to protect certain relevant interests. However, they cannot be protected
through the disclosure of personal data as practiced by the accused, but exclusively
through the relevant procedures. The use of the personal data in question purely within these
proceedings, ie in the context of a proper criminal or civil case, would then
it was primarily in accordance with the general regulation, which was also stated by the administrative body
first degree.

 

[19] Furthermore, after an overall examination, the Appellate Body did not find any administrative action
first instance, no errors rendering the decision illegal. It seems to him in particular
as a reasonable amount of the fine imposed at the very lower limit of the rate.

 

[20] For all the above reasons, the Appellate Body therefore ruled as set out in

opinion of this Decision.
 

Lessons learned:

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 (1) of the Act, this decision shall be challenged
No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, cannot be revoked.

 
 
Prague, March 4, 2021

 

 
 

  
 

 

official stamp imprint

Mgr. Jiří Kaucký

chairman

(electronically signed)

4/4

