 

Registered mail
Cooperative Menzis U.A.
Chairman of the Board
Mr. R. Wenselaar
PO Box 75000
7500 KC Enschede

 

 

Date
February 15, 2018
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
070 8888 500
 

 
Topic
Order subject to penalty and final findings
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authority data.nl

 

 

Your feature
20171025/Board/jd
 
 
 

 

 

Dear Mr. Wisher,
 
Below you will find the decision of the Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP) to impose an order under
penalty to Cooperative Menzis U.A. (Menzis). This decision is part of the new decision
from today on the objection of the Civil Rights Association Vrijbit (Vrijbit). This new decision on objection is
taken after the investigation carried out by the AP following the interim ruling of the
Midden Nederland court (the court) dated 7 July 2017, ECLI:NL:RBMNE:2017:3421 (de
interlude). This case was started with an enforcement request that Vrijbit submitted to the College
protection of personal data (CBP).
 
Vrijbit's enforcement request relates to the way in which Dutch health insurers
are currently processing personal data relating to health. According to Vrijbit, this method is in
violation of the Personal Data Protection Act (Wbp), the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the
European Union (the Charter) and Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights and the
fundamental freedoms (ECHR). Vrijbit, in summary, underlies this that health insurers are still
always work in accordance with the Code of Conduct for the Processing of Personal Data for Healthcare Insurers (the code of conduct),
while the AP still withheld its approval of that code of conduct as a result of a
judgment of the Amsterdam District Court from 2013.1
 
The course of the procedure between Vrijbit and the AP, the legal framework, the decision of the
Amsterdam District Court, the interim ruling, the original decision on the objection of 1 June 2016, the
the design of the investigation and the course of the investigation are set out in the new decision on
objection. The AP refers to this for brevity.
 

                                                                        
1 Amsterdam District Court 13 November 2013, ECLI:NL:RBAMS:2013:7480.

  

 

1



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

1

2

3

4

 
 
Findings
The findings of the AP . are annexed to this decision to impose the order subject to periodic penalty payments
added. First of all, the code of conduct and the privacy policy applied by Menzis are discussed in this
order (1). Subsequently, the aspects of digital declaration without diagnosis information are discussed (2),
purpose limitation (3), unauthorized access to personal data (4), processors (5) and medical
professional secrecy (6).
  
Offence
In its findings, the AP concludes that Menzis violates Article 13 of the Wbp. The AP has in
that framework noted the following:
- Menzis has organized its corporate culture in such a way that only employees have access
may have access to personal data relating to health insofar as this is necessary for
the purpose for which the employees process the personal data. For example, by
Menzis has established that marketing employees do not receive personal data regarding health
allowed to process.

- However, the investigation by the AP shows that marketing employees of Menzis do in fact have access

have access to personal data relating to health. Being able to consult
personal data, pursuant to Article 1, opening words and under b, of the Wbp can be regarded as
processing personal data.

- Menzis therefore does not have sufficient technical means to ensure that:

employees do not have access to personal data that is not necessary for the purpose
for which they are processed. In that context, the AP points out that Menzis, for example, does not
maintain log files about access to personal data, including special
personal data.

- The foregoing leads to the conclusion that Menzis does not have suitable technological
measures as referred to in Article 13 of the Wbp. The AP has from underlying documents that
show how a marketing campaign is carried out at Menzis, by the way, no
found indications for the conclusion that marketing staff actually
processing personal data relating to health for a marketing campaign. However, that does
does not detract from the conclusion that Article 13 of the Wbp has been violated, because the technological measures
that Menzis has affected are not appropriate.

 
Principle of enforcement
From article 65 of the Wbp, viewed in conjunction with article 5:32, first paragraph, of the General Act
administrative law (Awb) follows that the AP is authorized to impose an order subject to a penalty in the event of violation
of Article 13 of the Wbp.
Pursuant to Article 5:2, first paragraph, opening words and under b, of the Awb, the order subject to a penalty is aimed at the
terminating the detected violation and preventing repetition.
  
In view of the public interest served by enforcement, in the event of a violation of
a statutory provision, as a rule, have to make use of its enforcement powers.
Special circumstances in connection with which enforcement action must be waived, do
not occur in this case.

 

 

2/6



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
Order subject to penalty and beneficiary period
The AP orders Menzis to set up its system in such a way that unauthorized access to
personal data is prevented.

5

The authorization matrix and associated documents in which they provide the logical

Ensure adequate technological control systems on the basis of which it ensures

 
To that end, it must in any case:
1.
access security of its systems must be adjusted. This one
documents must be adapted or redrafted in such a way that it clearly follows
what access rights employees have. The authorization matrix should provide an insightful overview
provide the authorizations and consult roles associated with a position or role by means of
including an unambiguous use of terminology. Menzis must record this for:
which function or role the processing of personal data concerning health is necessary
is and for what purpose and this document is subject to revised business insights, if necessary
to suit. Furthermore, the authorizations of Menzis employees must therefore be permanently
to be brought into agreement.
2.
that employees only have access to special personal data, including
personal data relating to health, where such access is necessary for the
work of an employee. In any case, this concerns logging of access and
changes, so that – whether or not as a result of incidents – it can be checked whether
employees have obtained access while access to this data is not necessary
for their work. This also means that the authorizations must be periodically
checked and adjusted without delay if an audit shows that an employee is at least
has been wrongly authorized to access personal data, including
personal data concerning health.
3.
takes place at least once every six months – by the Data Protection Officer and
the Compliance officer(s) to the management, which shows whether incidents have occurred and so
yes, which measures have been taken:
a.
b.

Menzis must also provide periodic written feedback – which is

with regard to the aforementioned under 1;
with regard to the above mentioned under 2.

6

7

 
- beneficiary period and amount of penalty with regard to parts 2 and 3b
In view of what Menzis has put forward about its wish to set up its system in such a way that
technically and largely automated, it is ensured that employees do not have access to more
personal data than is necessary for their work, the AP connects to part 2 and
part 3b of this charge a beneficiary period that ends on December 31, 2018.
 
If Menzis does not meet the payment before the end of the beneficiary period referred to under 6,
she forfeits a penalty. The AP sets the amount of this penalty at an amount of
€ 150,000.00 for each (entire) week, after the end of the last day of the set term, on which
Menzis fails to comply with part 2 and part 3b of the charge, up to a maximum of € 750,000.00.
In view of the fact that the penalty must be an incentive to comply with the order, the amount of the turnover,

 

 

3/6



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
van Menzis, the large number of insured persons and the seriousness of the violation, the AP considers to be aware of this
penalty appropriate.
  
- beneficiary period and amount of penalty with regard to parts 1 and 3a
With regard to part 1. of this burden, the AP is of the opinion that with the implementation thereof less
efforts are involved. The AP therefore attaches to part 1 and part 3a of the charge a
beneficiary period ending on 26 May 2018.
  
If Menzis does not meet the payment before the end of the beneficiary period referred to under 0,
she forfeits a penalty. The AP sets the amount of this penalty at an amount of € 50,000.00
for every (entire) week, after the end of the last day of the set term, on which Menzis fails to
part 1 and part 3a of the charge, up to a maximum of € 250,000.00.
In view of the fact that the penalty must be an incentive to comply with the order, the amount of the turnover,
van Menzis, the large number of insured persons and the seriousness of the violation, the AP considers to be aware of this
penalty appropriate.
 
-interim report
The AP advises Menzis to make a statement on the basis of a concrete planning – once a quarter
to inform the AP about the progress of the measures it is taking to comply with the
imposed burden.
 
-post-check
The AP requests Menzis to submit supporting documents to the AP in good time before the end of the beneficiary period
send proof that the charge has been paid in full and on time. The timely submission of
documentary evidence does not alter the fact that the AP is authorized to conduct an investigation, including an investigation
on site, if deemed appropriate.
 
Explanation of the load
By way of explanation, the AP notes the following.
 
In the document 'CBP Guidelines. Security of personal data' (Government Gazette 2013, 5174, hereinafter also: de
guidelines) the question of when security measures are 'appropriate' within the meaning of
Article 13 of the Wbp. The guidelines make it clear that for that assessment, first of all
the reliability requirements to be set must be considered. This must be done on the basis of the nature of
the data to be protected is determined what an appropriate level of protection is. The nature of the
personal data is important here. Also the amount of processed personal data per person and
the purpose for which the personal data are processed must be taken into account.
  
In this case, it concerns the processing of data relating to health, i.e. special
personal data. This means that the consequences of an unlawful processing of that data,
can be serious for those involved. As a result, for the processing of personal data
requires a high security level by Menzis.
  

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

 

 

4/6



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

15

16

 
After establishing the reliability requirements, the responsible party must
take security measures to ensure that the reliability requirements are met, such as
is in the guidelines. Security standards provide guidance when actually taking
appropriate measures to cover the risks. A very widely used security standard is the
Code for Information Security, NEN-ISO/IEC 27002+C1(2014)+C2 (2015). In this are concrete
security measures included. Security standards provide guidance during the actual encounter
appropriate measures to cover the risks. Which security standards for a particular
processing are relevant and which security measures based on these security standards
should be taken, however, should be determined on a case-by-case basis.
  
The Code for Information Security lists the following relevant measures in this regard:
9.4.1 Restricting access to information
Access to information and system functions of applications should be restricted in accordance with the
access security policy.
12.4.1 Log events
Event logs that record user activities, exceptions, and information security events
should be created, stored and regularly reviewed.
 

17 Irrespective of the design of the access security policy, the nature of the

personal data that a health insurer such as Menzis processes and the scope of that processing, which is at least
at least log files are kept in such a way that at least a reactive check of
the log files is possible. In particular, the AP is concerned with acts in the form of
consultations or changes in the systems to which employees are authorized with regard to
(special) personal data are not logged, as a result of which a check on access to that data
data – for example as a result of incidents – is currently not possible.
  

18 As noted above, the AP found during the investigation that marketing employees
of Menzis actually have access to personal data regarding health, while Menzis
it has been established that this is not the intention. In its response to the intention to enforce, Menzis has
correctness of these findings and declares to commit to the judgment of the AP that this
leads to a violation of Article 13 of the Wbp. Menzis has stated that it will receive the
take the necessary steps to end the violation. The AP has a plan for this
of the measures it intends to take. This planning seems realistic to the AP.
The AP has therefore set the aforementioned favorable terms for the various parts of
the order subject to periodic penalty payments is geared to Menzis' planning.
 
 
 

 

 

 

5/6



 

Date
February 15, 2018

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

19

 
For the information of the parties
Today's decision on objection with reference z2016-12335 and the present decision to impose
the order subject to periodic penalty payments and together they form the decision of the AP on Vrijbit's objection. Against this
decision is subject to appeal to the court.
 
A copy of this letter will be sent to the Data Protection Officer of
Menzis [CONFIDENTIAL].
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority Personal Data,

 

w.g.
 
mr. A. Wolfsen
Chair

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remedy
If you do not agree with this decision, you can return it within six weeks of the date of dispatch of the
decision to submit a notice of appeal to the court pursuant to the General Administrative Law Act
Central Netherlands, where these proceedings are already pending. You must enclose a copy of this decision
send. Submitting a notice of appeal does not suspend the effect of this decision.
 
 

 

 

6/6

