**Action of the Coordinator of Wellbeing and Protection of Students in Response to the Publication of Sexual or Violent Content on the Internet**

www.aepd.es  
@AEPD_es  

**General Information to be Provided in the Communication to the AEPD's Priority Channel:**  
The Organic Law 8/2021 on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents Against Violence (LOPIVI) states that all educational centers where minors are enrolled must have a Coordinator of Wellbeing and Protection of Students, who will act under the supervision of the person holding the direction or ownership of the center.  
(Article 35.1)  

**Functions of the Coordinator of Wellbeing and Protection in Educational Centers, among others:**  
■ Describe in as much detail as possible the circumstances under which the content was published, indicating, where applicable, that the publication affects minors enrolled in the educational center.  
■ Identify the student whose data is published openly and also indicate that this communication is made from the Direction of the center or as the Coordinator of Wellbeing and Protection or Director of the educational center.  
■ Clearly identify the content for which the removal is requested (videos, photographs, audios, information) and the social profile through which, if applicable, it is being published, including the various web addresses for access (http://...).  
■ Specify whether the publication has been reported to the Police, Civil Guard, or Prosecutor's Office, attaching a copy of the report.  
■ Specify whether a prior request for removal has been made to social networks or service providers, including in such case a copy of the request and the response obtained.  
Promote, in situations that may involve unlawful processing of personal data of minors, the immediate communication by the educational center to the Data Protection Agencies.  
(art. 35.2. j).  

The AEPD has a general priority channel to report the unauthorized publication on the internet of sexual or violent content (photographs, videos, audios, or information identifying individuals) and to urgently request its removal.  
The educational center can report the publication of this content on the internet using an electronic certificate of representation of a legal entity.  
For technical reasons, this Channel is not operational against private messaging services (WhatsApp, Telegram, Snapchat, Messenger...). In these cases, the tools offered by these services can be used to block or report users.  
In any case, if the AEPD confirms the authorship of an unauthorized dissemination of personal data, it may initiate actions to determine possible administrative liability in data protection matters and impose a financial sanction.  

**Priority Channel**