
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    05.07.2018
                                Court decision on the publication of scientific reports by the state parliament is a success for the openness and transparency of state actionThe Koblenz Higher Administrative Court in proceedings involving the publication of a report prepared by the scientific service of the state parliament, rejected its application for an appeal and the decision of the administrative court Mainz confirmed. "The Higher Administrative Court's decision is a success for the openness and transparency of state action," said the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Prof. Dr. Kugelman.
                
                        
                                pixabay.com
                            
                    
            "The Higher Administrative Court's decision is a success for the openness and transparency of state action," said the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Prof. Dr. Kugelmann. The Higher Administrative Court of Koblenz had rejected the application for an appeal in proceedings concerning the publication of an expert opinion drawn up by the Scientific Service of the State Parliament and confirmed the judgment of the Administrative Court of Mainz. This had decided that the preparation of scientific reports is a task that is subject to the regulations of the State Transparency Act and obliges the state parliament to publish the report in question. In view of complex problems and diverse influencing factors, there is a need for sufficient transparency of decision-making criteria and processes so that state action receives the necessary acceptance and trust in democratic processes is maintained. The parliaments are not exempt from this,” says Prof. Kugelmann. In order to be able to make good decisions, there must also be the opportunity to consider different arguments and to evaluate alternatives in advance and outside the burning glass of public perception. In principle, the court recognized the existing core area protection of the parliamentary groups. Outside of this core area, however, transparency in the performance of public tasks must be guaranteed and information must be accessible. Freedom of information is a key asset of our democracy. It makes state action transparent and enables citizens to participate in political processes. I am pleased that the judiciary has confirmed this in the present case." Further information:

Press release from the Higher Administrative Court of Mainz
                                return
                            



