1/8

 File No.: PS/00535/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated September 19
2020 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against Cyrana España General S.L. with NIF B88328067 (in
hereinafter, the claimed party or Cyrana Spain). The reasons on which the
claim are as follows.

The claimant states that she has received charges on her account for two months
bank of the claimed party, without having formalized any contract with it.

In turn, he states that the foregoing was due to the fact that he made a purchase in the
establishment "Mi Store Las Arenas" where they collected their personal data and the
your bank account number.

He adds that they offered him to hire mobile insurance, a gift card and a page
of domains or web creation "Sfam, Cyrana and Hubside" that at the last moment
He decided not to contract and was told that his data would be deleted.

And, provide the following documentation to prove the facts:

-

-

-

Proof of the charge made to your bank account on June 18,
2020, in relation to the purchase made by the claimant in “Mi Store
The Sands".

Invoice of the purchase made in "Mi Store Las Arenas".

Proof of charges made in your name to your bank account,
by Hubside and the Respondent on September 1, 2020 and by Sfam on
August 18, 2020.

- Complaint sheet before the General Directorate of Government Consumption

from the Canary Islands

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

THIRD: On January 25, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

On July 28, 2021, a request for information is sent to the party
claimed. The notification is done electronically. According to this system of
notification, automatic rejection has occurred after ten days
natural from its availability.

On August 25, 2021, the request for information to the respondent is reiterated.
The notification is made by postal mail.

On November 9, 2021, the following information is sent to this Agency
and demonstrations:

On 10/30/2020, the defendant received a claim from
1.
the claimant, filed through the OCU, in which she alleged the transfer of her
data to the company without your consent and the collection of various charges on your account.

Well, they proceeded to manage a refund worth €30.00 in favor of the
claimant, confirming it in writing on 11/10/2020. Once said
reimbursement, they proceeded to delete all the personal data of the
claimant from their databases, with effect from 03/04/2021.

They attach the confirmation of said deletion sent by their collaborators to the
claimant the same 03/04/2021 (document 1).

On the other hand, they state that as a consequence of the deletion of the data
personal in its database, and having proceeded to the right to be forgotten, they cannot
obtain the required signed contract copy.

Documentation accrediting the consent granted by the claimant

two.
for the treatment of your data.

They state that, having applied the right to be forgotten with respect to personal data
of the claimant in their database, they cannot obtain the required documentation.

Screenshot of your systems in relation to all the data that is

3.
available associated with the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

They attach a screenshot of their internal database, in which you can see
that, in accordance with what was stated in point 1, the personal data of the claimant have
been deleted in its entirety (document 2).

Four.

Origin of the data of the previous section.

On June 18, 2020, the claimant went to the “Xiaomi Las Arenas” store in the
Las Arenas shopping center (Carretera del Rincón, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria –
35010) and proceeded to register their personal data. Point of sale subscribed
in the internal applications of your company such data, which have been
deleted in their entirety from their databases, as they have stated in point
1.

FIFTH: On November 19, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

SIXTH: After the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the agreement
of the beginning of the procedure, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding-
establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, when it contains a precise statement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal. In the
present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the party complained against has made no objections to the agreement to initiate the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: It is established that the complaining party received charges for two months in his
bank account of the claimed party, without having formalized any contract with the
same.

SECOND: The complaining party provided supporting documents for the charges made to its
name in your bank account by the claimed party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

THIRD: It is accredited that the claimed party received a claim from
the claimant, filed through the OCU, in which she alleged the transfer of her
data to the company without your consent and the collection of various charges on your account.

It is noted that they proceeded to manage a refund of €30.00 in favor of
the claimant, confirming it in writing on 11/10/2020. Once done
said reimbursement, they proceeded to delete all the personal data of the
claimant from their databases, with effect from 03/04/2021.

They attach the confirmation of said deletion sent by their collaborators to the
claimant on the same 03/04/2021.

FOURTH: The respondent party does not provide the required copy of the signed contract.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

           Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

                 "1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

  (…)
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The documentation in the file shows that the claimed party,
violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it processed the data
claims of the claimant without having any legitimacy to do so.

The party complained against processed the data of the claimant without legitimacy, since
I make various charges to your bank account, in relation to services that are not
contracted and on the other hand Cyrana Spain cannot obtain a copy of the contract
signature required by this Agency, as stated in its letter dated March 9,
November 2021.

However, and this is essential, the defendant does not prove the legitimacy to

the processing of the claimant's data.

Article 6.1 RGPD says that the treatment "will be lawful if it is necessary for the

performance of a contract to which the interested party is a party.

It was therefore essential that the respondent prove before this

Agency that the claimant had contracted said services.

Subsequently, as a result of receiving the claim filed by the claimant

The personal data from the database have been completely deleted.

IV

          In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

         "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

data.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the
sanction of a fine to be imposed on the claimed party, as responsible for an infraction
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, the following are considered concurrent
factors:

-

The intentionality or negligence of the infraction (art. 83.2 b). In this case the
party claimed processed the data of the claimant without legitimacy, since
I make various charges to your bank account, in relation to some services
who did not hire

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CYRANA ESPAÑA GENERAL S.L., with NIF B88328067, for
an infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CYRANA ESPAÑA GENERAL S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

