1/28

 File No.: PS/00195/2022

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 29, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against EDITORIAL PRENSA
CANARIA, S.A. (hereinafter the claimed party). Notified the start agreement and after
analyze the allegations presented, on September 29, 2022, the
proposed resolution that is transcribed below:

<<
File No.: PS/00195/2022

PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), dated ***DATE.1,
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter,
AEPD). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The complaining party reports that several media outlets published on their
websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a rape
multiple, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was
very mediatic The complaining party provided links to the news published in
the claimed media websites.

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the complaining party was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it was still available.

SECOND: Dated ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/28

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, being aware of the
following extremes:

During the investigation actions, publications were found, more than
those initially denounced by the complaining party, where the voice of the complainant could be heard
undistorted victim. Among them, the following publication of EDITORIAL DE
PRENSA CANARIA, S.A., with NIF A35002278 (hereinafter, the claimed party):

***URL.1

On ***DATE.4, the defendant was notified of a precautionary withdrawal measure
urgent content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that
will be unidentifiable in the web address from which this was accessible
content.
On ***DATE.5, a letter sent by this entity was received by the AEPD
stating that he had proceeded to the definitive suppression of the video; checking
that the video with the victim's statement had been replaced by a still image
of the courtroom in which the victim cannot be recognized.

FOURTH: On April 29, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, classified as
in article 83.5.a).

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a brief of allegations on May 18,
2022 in which, in summary, he stated that:

1.- The agreement to start the disciplinary procedure refers to some
previous investigation actions that have been taken into account for its issuance,
for which reason it requests the hearing process and a copy of such elements of judgment, which will be
object, where appropriate, of new allegations.

2.- The agreement to start the disciplinary procedure refers to D.A.A.A. as
"complaining party". However, article 65 of the LOPDGDD indicates that the
claimant must be affected, for which reason it is requested that it be clarified if D.A.A.A. act
"In the exercise of an invoked or accredited representation of the victim of the
rape."

3.- He denies the allegedly infringing acts that are imputed to him because "although the
contained in www.laprovincia.es belong to EPC, and at the indicated address
published a news (still available, without any video), this fact is not true. So, the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/28

published voice in no case allowed their identification, not constituting any data
staff."

It also indicates that “D. A.A.A.
 maintained that "remain available the
publications made in the profiles of these media outlets on Twitter”. Well then,
It is also denied that EPC has published any video referring to the victim on
Twitter.”

4.- Indicates that the AEPD has assumed an identity between the voice of the victim and the voice
published that he is not aware of, thus violating his presumption of innocence.

For this reason, he requests that the following test be carried out: "an indubitable sample of the
voice of the victim, in a file, leaving a record of its corresponding HASH.
Likewise, it is interested that a copy of the video file that was
published at the address ***URL.1, stating its corresponding HASH.

All of this, in order for EPC to deliver both files and their
respective HASH, and order an acoustic expert report that analyzes the height,
intensity and timbre of both voices, to conclude if they present features that associate it
to the same individual or not.

5.- The defendant denies having signed the Digital Pact for the protection of
people, so that "the effectiveness that it would have had in grading the sanction
proposal would have to be eliminated, with the corresponding reduction.”

6.- It considers that the agreement to start the disciplinary procedure "does not characterize
adequately the facts attributed to EPC, as long as it does not refer to the period
during which the infringement that he imputes would have lasted", especially taking into account
account that he assesses the circumstances consisting of the nature, seriousness and
duration of the offence.

For this reason, he understands that the initiation agreement must be completed and a new
processing of allegations, under penalty of causing him material defenselessness.

7.- You also understand that the lack of specificity of the type
infringing party, because although the initiation agreement indicates that the alleged infringement consists of
the violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, it establishes that "Personal data
shall be (...) Adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes
for those who are treated (<<data minimization>>)", for which he considers that the
infringing type has a triple content, without the initial agreement indicating which of the
three has been violated.

For this reason, he again requests that the initiation agreement be completed and that he be granted a
new claims process.

8.- It considers that an incomplete treatment of the principle of
guilt, based on the aforementioned denial of the possibility of identification of the
victim and in which the guilt "would derive, where appropriate, from having weighed in a
erroneous and inexcusable freedom of information and the right to data protection”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/28

It indicates that "the allegedly infringing activity consisted of the application of a
indeterminate legal concept. In this sense, legal concepts
indeterminate are characterized by having a single correct legal solution, which
can be found in three situations: either a clear affirmative answer (zone
white); or a clear negative answer (black zone); or, more commonly,
an answer one way or the other, which is difficult to achieve (gray area).”

It understands that, in the present case, the balance between the two legal concepts
indeterminate (freedom of information and the right to data protection) is
in the gray area, hence the extension of the argumentation of the initial agreement.
And by the fact of being in that area, he considers that the error is excusable,
which entails the exclusion of guilt.

He points out that “it is evident that the AEPD criteria will be the prevailing one. But what
EPC would have reached, before knowing the criteria of the AEPD, a conclusion
different, without having incurred in error or arbitrariness, excludes the possibility that
I would have acted with guilt."

He concludes by indicating that, since he has not acted with fraud or negligence, he cannot reach
to impose a sanction, for which reason the procedure is filed
sanctioning.

9.- Finally, the claimed party indicates that there is no motivation in the graduation of the
proposed sanction, considering that "it was appropriate that he had indicated the amount of the
sanction proposed without such aggravating factors, as well as the impact on it of each of
they."

In any case, it understands that the amount of the sanction is excessive "given the characteristics of
the imputed conduct and the subjective relationship of EPC with it", for which reason it requests its
reduction.

SIXTH: On May 19, 2022, the file was sent to the claimed party,
granting at the same time a new term to present allegations, without such
fact has taken place.

SEVENTH: A list of documents in the file is attached as an annex.
procedure.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On ***DATE.1, the claimant filed a claim with the
AEPD denouncing that various media outlets published on their websites
the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of multiple rape, to
illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was highly mediated,
providing links to news published on media websites
claimed.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/28

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the complaining party was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it was still available.

SECOND: The General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection, in the exercise of its
investigative activities, found a publication of the Respondent where
could hear the victim's voice undistorted at the following address:

***URL.1

THIRD: Within the framework of the previous investigation actions, dated
***DATE.4, the party claimed was notified of an urgent precautionary measure to withdraw
content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that it would be
unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this content was accessible, in
concrete of:

***URL.1

FOURTH: On ***DATE.5, the AEPD received a letter sent by it
entity reporting that the content referenced in the precautionary measure had been
removed.

FIFTH: It is verified that in the link ***URL.1 the video with the declaration of the
victim has been replaced by a still image of the courtroom.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The claimed party begins indicating that the agreement to start the procedure
sanctioner refers to D. A.A.A. as “complaining party”. However, the article
65 of the LOPDGDD indicates that the claimant must be affected, for which reason it is requested
that it be clarified if D. A.A.A. acts “in the exercise of an invoked or accredited
representation of the victim of rape.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/28

D.A.A.A. has not presented a document accrediting the representation of the victim
of the rape. This person informed the AEPD of some facts that he did
for it to initiate inspection proceedings. In any case, this does not constitute in any way
any formal defect in the processing of this procedure that may
have rendered the interested party defenseless.

II

The claimed party continues to deny the allegedly infringing facts that were
accused because "although the contents in www.laprovincia.es belong to EPC, and
a news item was published at the indicated address (still available, no video),
that fact is not true. Thus, the published voice in no case allowed its identification,
not constituting any personal data.”

In the first place, and without prejudice to its more detailed examination in the Fundamento
of Law X of this proposed resolution, it should be noted that the voice of any
person is personal data and identifies or makes it uniquely identifiable.

Thus, the voice fits perfectly into the definition of what is a character data
personnel of article 4.1) of the GDPR, verifying that the four
components indicated in Opinion 4/2007 of the Article 29 Working Group
on the concept of personal data: all information about a natural person
identified or identifiable. The reference to all information refers to the concept
broad definition of what constitutes personal data, which requires a
broad interpretation.

In the present case examined, the victim's voice identifies her directly
in their environment (understood in a broad sense, encompassing the family and the social),
that, as determined in the aforementioned Opinion 4/2007, "it can be
consider a natural person "identified" when, within a group of
persons, it is "distinguished" from all other members of the group. And there is a
clear treatment if the voice has spread through the media
claimed, under the terms of art. 4.2) of the GDPR.

And it is clear that the voice of any person can make it be identified
at least by those who are part of the circle closest to the victim or may
meet her anyway. Let's imagine relatives or co-workers or
studies, social activities, etc. For this reason, the diffusion of the voice of the victim has
assumed the certain risk that it could have been identified by persons
who were unaware of their status as victims. Which is a particularly serious fact
in an event like the one that gives rise to the news.

In addition, the voice also makes the victim indirectly identifiable to a
larger segment of the population if combined with other data, even with
additional information, depending on the context in question. Again the Opinion
4/2007 clarifies that "In cases where, at first sight, the identifiers
available do not make it possible to single out a specific person, this person can still be
"identifiable", because that information combined with other data (whether the
responsible for their treatment is aware of them as if not) will allow
distinguish that person from others.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/28

Let us also bear in mind that, in the case examined, there is a
easier to make the victim identifiable through his voice in response to the
circumstances of the event and the context in which it is made public: within the framework of
a highly publicized judicial procedure, continuously followed by various
media that provide information about the victim, his
environment, the violators, and the violation suffered (which makes up information
additional).

In this sense, recital 26 of the GDPR determines that "...To determine if
a natural person is identifiable, all means must be taken into account, such as the
singularization, which can reasonably be used by the data controller or
any other person to directly or indirectly identify the natural person.
To determine whether there is a reasonable probability that means will be used to
identify a natural person, all objective factors must be taken into account,
as well as the costs and time required for identification, taking into account both
the technology available at the time of treatment such as advances
technological…”

Every time the claimed party has disseminated such personal data, it has
carried out a treatment of the same, in which the
principles enshrined in the GDPR, in particular the principle of minimization of
treatment of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR.

On the other hand, the claimed party indicates that “D. A.A.A. He maintained that "they remain
available the publications made in the profiles of these media outlets on Twitter”.
Well, it is also denied that EPC has published any video regarding the
victim on Twitter.”

Certainly, the claimed party has not published any such video
on Twitter, in fact, in the brief submitted by the complaining party, there was no
No reference to the claimed part.

For this reason, the initiation agreement states that during the previous actions of
investigation found, regarding the claimed party, the following publication in the
that the victim's voice could be heard without distorting: ***URL.1, with no mention of the
publication of any tweet.

IV.

The claimed party alleges that the Agency has assumed an identity between the voice of the
victim and the published voice that he is not aware of, thus violating his presumption of
innocence.

If the published voice was not that of the victim, why did the claimed party, in his writing
of ***DATE.5, informed the Agency that "From the legal department it is given
transfer of internal informative note to all editorial directors so that they may be
aware of what happened and, as far as possible, is it not carried out again?
publications without distorting the voice of the victim”?

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/28

Such an affirmation is equivalent to recognizing that in the publication the voice of the victim was
without distorting, in short, that it was his voice, so a contradiction can be seen
between what was stated by the claimed party in its brief of ***DATE.5 and what is expressed
in his brief of allegations to the initiation agreement, which makes him bankrupt his
presumption of innocence.

For these reasons, the taking of evidence is denied, in accordance with article
77.3 of the LPACAP as unnecessary:

- It is unnecessary to request an indubitable sample of the victim's voice, in a file,
leaving a record of its corresponding HASH whenever the claimed party
in his brief of ***DATE.5 he acknowledges that he published the victim's voice without distorting it.

- It is unnecessary to send the claimed party a copy of the video file that was
published at the address ***URL.1, stating its corresponding HASH,
because the claimed party should have such a copy, as indicated in the
requirement that the Agency issued on ***DATE.4: “Require EDITORIAL
CANARY PRESS, S.A. so that the withdrawal or modification of the contents is
is carried out in such a way that it makes it impossible for third parties to access and dispose of the original,
but guarantee its conservation, in order to guard the evidence that may be
accurate in the course of police or administrative investigation or legal proceedings
that they could be educated."

- By virtue of the foregoing, it is unnecessary to carry out an acoustic expert report,
since it is duly accredited that the claimed party published the voice of the
undistorted victim.

Denying such a fact at this time constitutes a violation of the principle of
own acts. As indicated in the Constitutional Court Judgment 73/1988, of
April 21, "the so-called doctrine of own acts or rule that decrees the
inadmissibility of venire contra factum propium originally arising in the field
of private law, means the binding of the author of a declaration of will
generally of a tacit nature to the objective sense of the same and the impossibility of
later adopt a contradictory behavior, which finds its foundation
last in the protection that objectively requires the trust that is justified
may have deposited in the behavior of others and the rule of good faith that
imposes the duty of consistency in behavior and therefore limits the exercise of rights
objective rights”.

Or as stated in the Supreme Court Judgment 760/2013, of December 3: "The
doctrine that is invoked constitutes a general principle of law that prohibits going against
one's own acts (nemo potest contra propium actum venire) as a limit to the exercise
of a subjective right or of a faculty: this is how the sentences of May 9 are expressed
2000 and May 21, 2001. It refers to suitable acts to reveal a legal relationship,
says the judgment of October 22, 2002, which reiterates what the judgment of 25
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/28

October 2000 in the sense that it is based on good faith and on the
protection of the trust that the conduct produces; confidence that also stand out
the judgments of February 16, 2005 and January 16, 2006, as well as that it is doctrine
based on the principle of good faith; grounds on which the judgment of
October 17, 2006. What is reiterated by subsequent judgments, such as those of October 2,
2007, October 31, 2007, January 19, 2010 and July 1, 2011; the latter stands out,
In addition to reiterating all of the above, which implies a legal link, it must be very
surely and certainly cautious”.

V

The claimed party denies having signed the Digital Pact for the protection of
people, so that "the effectiveness that it would have had in grading the sanction
proposal would have to be eliminated, with the corresponding reduction.”

Certainly, the claimed party has not signed the Digital Pact for the protection of
people. However, this fact has not been taken into account by the agreement of
beginning for the graduation of the sanction, since it is not in the
legal basis regarding the criteria that are considered concurrent for the
determination of the sanction.

SAW

The defendant considers that the agreement to start the disciplinary procedure
“does not adequately characterize the facts charged to EPC, insofar as it does not refer to the
period during which the infringement that he imputes would have lasted”, especially
considering that he values the circumstances consistent in nature,
severity and duration of the offence. Therefore, he understands that the
initiation agreement and grant a new claims process, under penalty of
cause him material helplessness.

The jurisprudence repeatedly, as indicated in the Judgment of the Court
Constitutional Law 35/1989, of February 14, "has elaborated on the constitutional notion
defenselessness, three interpretive guidelines reiterated on numerous occasions: from a
part, that "defenseless situations must be assessed according to the circumstances"
of each case (STC 145/1986, of Nov. 24, 3rd legal basis); from another, that the
defenselessness that is prohibited in art. 24.1 of the Constitution does not arise "from the sole and
simple infraction by the judicial bodies of the procedural rules, since the
breach of this legality does not cause, in all cases, the elimination or
substantial reduction of the rights that correspond to the parties due to their
own position in the procedure nor, consequently, the defenselessness that the
Constitution proscribes" (STC 102/1987, of June 17, 2nd legal basis), but rather,
the concept of defenselessness does not necessarily coincide with legal relevance
constitutional with the concept of defenselessness merely legal-procedural, it is
produces the former "when the violation of the procedural norms carries with it the
deprivation of the right to defense, with the consequent real and effective damage to
the interests of the affected party" (STC 155/1988 of July 22, 4th legal basis), and, therefore,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/28

last, and as a complement to the previous one, that art. 24.1 of the Constitution
protects in situations of simple formal defenselessness, since such situations are not the
which in their case should be corrected by granting the amparo, but rather
cases of material defenselessness in which "it could have been reasonably caused
a detriment to the appellant, because otherwise not only the estimate of the amparo
would have a purely formal consequence, but would only delay
unduly the process» (STC 161/1985, of 29 Nov., 5th legal basis).”

In the present case there is no material defenselessness because the claimed party knows the
period of time during which the infringement lasted, since the start date of
the reproached action corresponds to the publication of the news with the voice of
the undistorted victim who performed the claimed part, while the end of the
infringement took place at the time the company removed the video from its website
as a result of the requirement that the Agency notified him on ***DATE.4, that is, the notice
It was posted for over a month.

Due to the foregoing, the allegation that the agreement of
commencement and a new period of allegations is given, since, whenever the claimed party
knew the time during which the infringement occurred, there is no material defenselessness
some.

VII

The claimed party also understands that the lack of
specification of the infringing type, because although the initiation agreement indicates that the infringement
accused consists of the violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, this establishes that
"Personal data will be (...) Adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in
relation to the purposes for which they are processed (<<data minimization>>)”, therefore
which considers that the infringing type has a triple content, without the initiation agreement
indicate which of the three has been violated. For this reason, it again requests that the
start agreement and a new claims process is granted.

The principle of minimization, which after all is what the claimed party has
violated, implies that only the minimum data necessary to
fulfill the intended purpose, which in this case is informative.

For this reason, the initiation agreement in its Foundation of Law VII indicates that
“It is tremendously significant that, in the case examined, the part
The defendant has immediately withdrawn the recording of the hearing in which the
voice of the victim at the request of the AEPD, without prejudice to which the information
it is still available and is still supplied in its full range. This puts
manifest that in order to provide this specific information it was not necessary, in the
terms of art. 5.1.c) of the GDPR to disseminate the voice of the victim.” (underlining is
our).

While Fundamental of Law VIII of the initiation agreement states that "Of
In accordance with the evidence available, it is considered that the party

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/28

claimed has processed data that was excessive as it was not necessary for the purpose
for which they were treated." (underlining is ours).

In short, the initial agreement already indicated that the publication of the voice of the
undistorted victim is excessive data processing, that the
principle of minimization, since such a publication is neither adequate, nor pertinent, nor
limited to what is necessary for the informational purpose. In fact, the verbatim of the article
above unites with the conjunction "and" the three elements of adequacy, relevance and
limitation to what is necessary.

The interpretation of the triple content of article 5.1.c) made by the claimed party
with the aim that the initiation agreement be completed and given a new period of
allegations is no less an attempt to unduly delay the procedure that
cannot be estimated, since the initiation agreement had already indicated, in
concisely, that the disciplinary procedure was initiated for an alleged
infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, for which reason defenselessness has not been caused
material to the claimed party.

VIII

The claimed party considers that an incomplete treatment of the
principle of guilt, based on the denial that it is possible to identify the
victim and in which the guilt "would derive, where appropriate, from having weighed in a
erroneous and inexcusable freedom of information and the right to data protection”.

Since in Fundamentals of Law III it has been indicated that the voice of any
person is personal data and identifies or makes it uniquely identifiable,
we have to focus at this point on the allegation that the guilt
derives, as indicated by the defendant, from having erroneously considered and
inexcusable freedom of information and the right to data protection, which
excludes the possibility that he had acted with intent or negligence.

In this regard, it should be remembered that jurisprudence repeatedly considers that
from the culpable element it can be deduced “...that the action or omission, classified as
administratively sanctionable infraction, must be, in any case, attributable to its
author, due to intent or negligence, negligence or inexcusable ignorance” (STS of 16 and 22
April 1991). The same Court pointed out that "it is not enough... for the exculpation
in the face of typically unlawful behavior, the invocation of the absence of
guilt" but it is necessary to prove "that the diligence that was required
by those who claim its non-existence” (STS, January 23, 1998). Assuming
examined, the respondent party has not proved that it used the slightest
diligence.

Connected with the degree of diligence that the data controller is obliged to
to deploy in compliance with the obligations imposed by the regulations of
data protection, you can cite the Judgment of the National Court of 17
October 2007 (rec. 63/2006), which indicates, in relation to entities whose activity
involves continuous processing of customer data, which: "(...) the Court
Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence whenever a
legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not behave with due diligence

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/28

callable. And in assessing the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined,
when the activity of the appellant is constant and abundant handling of data from
personal character must be insisted on the rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the
legal provisions in this regard.

In the present case, the claimed party has not acted with the required diligence, in
In this case, that of a professional who carries out continuous processing of personal data.
personal, since the media are responsible for data processing
of a personal nature that habitually distort the voice in order to
that the person speaking is not recognized. For this reason, the initial agreement in its
Basis of Law IX indicates that the claimed party "was negligent in not
ensure a procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data in
such sensitive circumstances", since we are referring to a woman from (...)
victim of a violent crime and against sexual integrity, putting her at risk
certain of being identified by people who were unaware of her status as a victim,
risk that should have been assessed by the media and of which it is
responsible.

Victims of sexual assaults, such as gang rape, have to face
the challenge of resuming his life once the trial is over, trying to overcome the
physical and psychological sequelae derived from the traumatic experience they have suffered.
In this sense, your environment plays a decisive role. Unfortunately, even today
produce situations in which they are stigmatized despite having been the
victims, sometimes even being forced to change their place of residence.

For this reason, it is essential to treat with the greatest care any personal data that
allows you to reveal your identity, prevent you from being recognized as a victim in your environment,
understood in a broad sense. Here the medium plays a decisive role.
communication
and, especially, the weighting or weighing that it has to carry out on a
prior to the publication of the information, which, in the present case, we are not aware of.

IX

Finally, the claimed party indicates that there is no motivation in the graduation of the
proposed sanction, considering that "it was appropriate that he had indicated the amount of the
sanction proposed without such aggravating factors, as well as the impact on it of each of
they". Likewise, it understands that the amount of the sanction is excessive "given the characteristics
of the imputed conduct and the subjective relationship of EPC with it", for which reason it requests
its reduction.

The initial agreement established that "the sanction that could correspond would be
€50,000 (fifty thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction”.

For its part, article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines” provides that “Violations of the
following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with fines
administrative costs of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company, of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/28

an amount equal to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

Therefore, an administrative fine of 50,000 euros is in the lower section
of the possible sanctions, thus complying with the provisions of article 83.1
of the GDPR: "Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case,
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

On the other hand, the defendant also alleges that the proposed sanction is not
duly motivated because "it was appropriate that he had indicated the amount of the sanction
proposal without such aggravating factors, as well as the impact on it of each one of them”.

Article 83.2 of the GDPR states that "administrative fines will be imposed, in
depending on the circumstances of each individual case, in addition to or in lieu of
the measures referred to in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding the
imposition of an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case will be
due account:” (emphasis added). That is, it provides for the valuation of the
penalty as a whole, taking into account each and every one of the circumstances
concurrent in the specific case and that are provided for in the aforementioned
precept.

The jurisprudence pronounces itself along the same lines when it refers to the principle of
proportionality, "fundamental principle that beats and presides over the graduation process
of sanctions and implies, in legal terms, "its adequacy to the seriousness of the
fact constituting the infringement" as provided in article 29.3 of Law 40/2015,
of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, given that any sanction must be determined in
consistency with the entity of the offense committed and according to a criterion of
proportionality in relation to the circumstances of the fact.” (Sentences of the
Supreme Court of December 3, 2008 (rec. 6602/2004) and April 12, 2012
(rec. 5149/2009) and Judgment of the National Court of May 5, 2021 (rec.
1437/2020), among others).

Thus, the Judgment of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, dated May 27,
2003 (rec. 3725/1999), indicates that "Proportionality, pertaining specifically to
to the scope of the sanction, constitutes one of the principles that govern the Law
Sanctioning administrative, and represents an instrument of control of the exercise of the
disciplinary power by the Administration within, even, the margins that, in
principle, indicates the applicable rule for such exercise. It is certainly a concept
difficult to determine a priori, but which tends to adjust the sanction, by establishing
its specific graduation within the indicated possible margins, to the severity of the
fact constituting the infringement, both in its aspect of illegality and of the
guilt, weighing as a whole the objective and subjective circumstances that
they integrate the budget of punishable fact (…)”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/28

We can also cite for this purpose the Supreme Court Judgment 713/2019, of 29
of May (rec. 1857/2018): "We will begin by pointing out that the proportionality of the
sanctions implies that they come tempered to the particular gravity
of the fact in conjunction with the circumstances of a subjective nature (which refer to the
offender) and objective (which refer to the typical fact) being that in the field of law
administrative sanction in general and in the field of the stock market in
In particular, there are no dosimetry criteria similar to those included in the article
66 of the CP and that the modifying circumstances differ from those of the scope
penal. Let us remember that there is no room for automatic application, without any qualification of the
guiding principles of criminal law to the sanctioning administrative procedure
(S.TS 6-10-2003 Rec.772/1998).”

For this reason, Directives 04/2022 of the European Committee for Data Protection on the
calculation of administrative fines in accordance with the RGPD, in its version of 12
May 2022, submitted to public consultation, indicate that "As regards the
evaluation of these elements, increases or decreases in a fine do not
They can be previously determined through tables or percentages. It is reiterated that the
The actual quantification of the fine will depend on all the elements collected during the
research and other considerations also related to the experiences
of the supervisory authority regarding fines.”

In short, since in the agreement to initiate this proceeding
disciplinary measure, the circumstances that took place were duly indicated and explained.
into account for the provisional quantification of the penalty as a whole, it is
duly motivated.

For all the foregoing, all the allegations made by the party are dismissed.
claimed to the initiation agreement.

X

The voice of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is personal data
make it identifiable, and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said GDPR:

“Personal data”: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each physical person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin, his hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of the expression, the idiolect or the intonation, are also data of
personal character considered together with the voice.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/28

For this reason, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency states that "the
image, as well as the voice of a person is personal data, as will be
any information that makes it possible to determine, directly or indirectly, your identity
(…)”

In fact, the National Court Judgment dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes data of a personal nature, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
as
<<any information concerning natural persons identified or
identifiable>>, an issue that is not controversial.”

Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines "processing" as: "any operation or set of
of operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data,
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction.”

The inclusion of a person's voice in journalistic publications, which identifies or
makes a person identifiable, implies a processing of personal data and, therefore,
Therefore, the person responsible for the treatment that carries out the same is obliged to comply with
the obligations for the data controller set forth in the GDPR and in
the LOPDGDD.

eleventh

This procedure was initiated because the claimed party published, on the website
referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a
multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case
that was very mediatic. The victim's voice was clearly appreciated when recounting
with all the crudeness of details the multiple rape suffered. All this constitutes a
processing of personal data of the victim.

People have the power of disposal over their personal data, including
his voice, as well as its diffusion, resulting, without a doubt, deserving of
protection of the person whose personal data is disclosed in violation of the law
legal.

Thus, STC 292/2000, of November 30, provides that "the content of the right
Fundamental to data protection consists of a power of disposal and control
on personal data that empowers the person to decide which of those data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or which can this third party
collect, and which also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These powers of disposition and
control over personal data, which constitute part of the content of the right
fundamental to data protection are legally specified in the power to
consent to the collection, obtaining and access to personal data, its subsequent
storage and treatment, as well as its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the
state or an individual. And that right to consent to knowledge and treatment,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/28

computerized or not, of personal data, requires as complements
essential, on the one hand, the ability to know at all times who has
these personal data and to what use you are submitting them, and, on the other hand, the power
oppose such possession and uses”.

In this sense, and regardless of the legal basis legitimizing the
treatment, all controllers must respect the principles of
treatment included in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR which establishes that:

"1. Personal data will be

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");"

However, we are faced with a fundamental right that is not absolute,
since, if necessary, the Fundamental Right to Data Protection can
give in to the prevalence of other rights and freedoms also constitutionally
recognized and protected, such as, for example, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information, weighing it on a case-by-case basis.

However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that the
treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly publicized case, makes the victim clearly identifiable. By pondering the
conflicting interests and, considering the concurrent circumstances of this case,
that is, the especially sensitive nature of personal data and the intense
violation of the privacy of the victim deserves greater protection the interest of the owner
of the right to the protection of your personal data and that they are not disclosed in front of the
claimed public interest in its dissemination.

twelfth

In the struggle between the Fundamental Rights to Freedom of Information in
relation to the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, even
when an equal degree of protection is recognized for both constitutional rights,
ordinarily the first is usually endowed with prevalence by our courts, after
assess and weigh all the elements at stake.

However, preponderance does not mean prevalence when, after all the
concurrent circumstances in a specific case, the limits set are exceeded
normatively and jurisprudentially.

In this sense, the Article 29 Working Group in its Opinion 06/2014 on the
concept of legitimate interest of the data controller under the
Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the legal basis of the legitimate interest of the
Article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/CE, fully transferable to the current art. 6.1.f) of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/28

GDPR, includes the right to freedom of expression or information as one of the
cases in which the question of legitimate interest may arise, stating that "without
regardless of whether the interests of the data controller will ultimately prevail
term on the interests and rights of the interested parties when the
weighing test”.

XIII

That said, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information is not
absolute. We can observe very clear limits established by the courts in the
civil sphere, in relation to the Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
the Image itself.

Thus, we will cite, for all, STC 27/2020, of February 24 (amparo appeal 1369-
2017) that it has, in relation to the image of a person, and based on the fact
uncontroversial that it makes it identifiable, that “…the debated question is reduced to
consider whether the non-consensual reproduction of the image of an anonymous person is
that is, of someone who is not a public figure, but who suddenly and
involuntarily a role in the newsworthy event, in this case as a victim of
failed attempted murder by his brother and his subsequent suicide,
implied an illegitimate interference in their fundamental right to their own image (art.
18.1 CE).

[…]

…that criminal events are newsworthy events, even with
regardless of the character of private subject of the person affected by the news. Without
However, the limit is in the individualization, direct or indirect, of the victim, since
This data is not of public interest because it lacks relevance for the information
that is allowed to be transmitted (SSTC 20/1992, of February 20; 219/1992, of
December; 232/1993, of July 12; 52/2002, of February 25; 121/2002, of 20
May, and 127/2003, of June 30). Thus, it is currently recognized by Law 4/2015, of 27
April, of the crime victim statute, in force since October 28, 2015,
when he warns of the need "from the public authorities [to offer] a
response as broad as possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims,
not only repairing the damage in the framework of a criminal proceeding, but also
minimizing other traumatic effects on the moral that his condition can
generate, all this regardless of their procedural situation. Therefore, the present
Statute, in line with European regulations on the matter and with the demands that
raises our society, claims, based on the recognition of the dignity of
victims, the defense of their material and moral assets and, with it, those of the group of
the society". In cases such as those raised in this appeal, this Court must
give relevance to the prevalence of the right to the image of the victim of the crime
against information freedoms, since graphic information became idle or
superfluous because the photograph of the victim lacks real interest for the transmission of
the information, in this case the apparent accomplishment of a homicide and subsequent
suicide” (emphasis added).

We will add the STS, from its First Civil Chamber, 272/2011, of April 11 (rec.
1747/2008), in which, regarding the data necessary to provide a

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/28

information and limits to the public interest states that "b) Trivial information is not
protects (ATC 75/2006), but the fact of providing unnecessary data in a case of
rape (full name, last name initials, street portal where
the victim lived) that have no community relevance, do not respect the reservation, only
seek to satisfy curiosity, produce disturbances or annoyances, and reveal
aspects of personal and private life unnecessarily, allowing neighbors,
close people and relatives full identification of the victim and knowledge
in great detail about an act that seriously violated his dignity (STC
185/2002) or about a disease that has no public interest and affects
direct to the irreducible field of intimacy and that reveals itself to the effect of a pure
joke or joke (STC 232/1993);”.

Likewise, the STS, of its First Civil Chamber, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec.
3318/2014), in relation to the capture and dissemination in court of the image of a
victim of gender violence provided that "1.) The interest of the
disputed information or the right of the defendant television station to broadcast
images recorded during the act of the oral trial of the criminal case, since there is no record
no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the applicant's identification
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
plans of his face and the mention of 03/31/2022 his first name and place of residence
residence, was also included in the fundamental right of the chain of
demanded television to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was left
limited by the plaintiff's fundamental rights to personal privacy and
your own image.

3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media. 7th) The identification of the plaintiff through his

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/28

image and personal data indicated and its direct link to an episode of
gender violence and other serious crimes, when disclosure was foreseeable
Simultaneous or subsequent data referring to how the victim and her aggressor met
and the way in which the criminal acts occurred, supposes that the loss of the
anonymity would violate both the plaintiff's right to her own image, by the
broadcast of their physical features, such as their personal and family intimacy, to the extent that
that some reserved data, belonging to his private life (who went to the Internet
to start a relationship or the intimate content of some of their talks), lacking
offensive entity in a situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment
in which any person who watched those news programs and who resided in the
location of the victim could know who they were referring to, so that the damage
psychological damage inherent to his condition as a victim of crimes was added to the moral damage
consisting of the disclosure of information about his private life that he had not consented to
make public." (underlining is ours).

As we can see, a clear reference is made to the excessive treatment of
personal data (some of which are not of an intimate nature) to provide the
information, considering them unnecessary at all points in attention to the
concurrent circumstances. Sometimes the courts refer to intimate data,
but sometimes it is personal data that is not intimate, such as, for
For example, the image of a natural person obtained from a photograph published in a
social network or name and surname.

fourteenth

In the specific case examined, as we have indicated, the claimed party
published, on the website referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge
of a victim of a multiple rape, to illustrate the news of a very
media.

Thus, it is not a question, as in other cases examined by jurisprudence, of endowing
of prevalence to a fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more
weight in a specific case. If not, rather, to find a balance between
both to achieve the achievement of the purpose of the first without undermining the second.
The reconciliation of both rights is nothing new, since the legislator
European Union mandates such reconciliation in article 85 of the GDPR.

As we have seen previously, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not unlimited, since the jurisprudential interpretation when confronting it
with other rights and freedoms does not allow the same in any case and with all breadth,
but, nevertheless, the prevalence that the courts usually endow it can be seen
limited by other fundamental rights that must also be respected. Thus
observes its limitation when the personal data provided was unnecessary for the
essence of the information content.

We must consider the special circumstances present in the supposed
examined. It is about a woman (...) who has suffered a multiple rape. In the
published recording, she is heard recounting, with great emotional charge, the aggression
sexuality suffered in all crudeness, narrating (...).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/28

In addition, we cannot lose sight of the victim status of the woman whose voice, with
all the nuances exposed, has spread.

Let us remember, for merely illustrative purposes, that Law 4/2015, of April 27,
of the Statute of the victim of the crime foresees a special need of protection to the
victims of crimes against sexual freedom or indemnity, as well as
victims of violent crimes, both circumstances that concur in the alleged
examined.

In this case, the situation of the victim must be considered (who is not in the
same level of equality as the defendants) and what the diffusion of their voice with
all its nuances, as well as the special protection that the
legal system that, without constraining the supply of information, must be done
compatible with the principle of data minimization, applicable to the form, the
medium in which the information is supplied and disseminated due to the immediate affectation of the data
personnel and the identification of the victim.

Precisely because the obvious informative public interest in the news is not denied,
Given the general interest in criminal cases, in this specific case, it is not a question of
to diminish the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information due to the prevalence
of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, but of
make them fully compatible so that both are absolutely
guaranteed. That is, the freedom of information of the media is not questioned.
of communication but the weighting with the right to data protection based on
to the proportionality and need to publish the specific personal data of the voice. Such
situation could have been resolved with the use of technical procedures to
prevent voice recognition, such as, for example, distortion of the voice of
the victim or the transcript of the report of the multiple rape, security measures
both, applied depending on the case in an ordinary way by means of
communication.

At older we have to mean that the victim is an anonymous person and our
Constitutional Court, for all the STC 58/2018, of June 4, affirms that the
public authorities, public officials and public figures or those dedicated to
activities that carry public notoriety “voluntarily accept the risk of
that their subjective personality rights are affected by criticism, opinions
or adverse disclosures and, therefore, the right to information reaches, in relation to
with them, its maximum level of legitimizing effectiveness, insofar as their life and conduct
morality participate in the general interest with a greater intensity than that of those
private persons who, without a vocation for public projection, see themselves
circumstantially involved in matters of public importance, to which
Therefore, a higher level of privacy must be recognized, which prevents
granting general importance to facts or behaviors that would have it if they were referred to
to public figures".

The STJUE (Second Chamber) of February 14, 2019, in case C 345/17, Sergejs
Buivids, mentions various criteria to ponder between the right to respect
of privacy and the right to freedom of expression, among which are
“the contribution to a debate of general interest, the notoriety of the affected person,
the object of the report, the previous behavior of the interested party, the content, the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/28

form and the repercussions of the publication, the form and the circumstances in which it is
obtained information and its veracity (see, in this regard, the judgment of the ECtHR of
June 27, 2017, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi Oy and Satamedia Oy v. Finland,
CE:ECHR:2017:0627JUD000093113, section 165)”.

In such a way that for a matter to be considered of general interest,
public relevance, they will be not only for the person who intervenes, but also for the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must concur, resulting, at greater
abundance of what was meant in the previous section, that in the case examined
the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is of great interest that
is recognized by third parties, so it may entail a new penalty
to the already suffered The victim is an anonymous person and must remain so, in such a way that
so that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed.

In the present case, (i) we are not dealing with a figure of public relevance, in which
sense that such relevance is sufficient to understand that it supposes, ex lege, a
dispossession of your fundamental right to the protection of your personal data, and (ii)
although we are dealing with facts "of public relevance", in the sense that they are revealed
as "necessary" for the presentation of ideas or opinions of public interest, that
necessity does not reach the provision of data that identifies the victim.

For this reason, and as expressed by the Supreme Court in its (civil) judgment 697/2019, of 19
December, the formation of a free public opinion does not require, nor does it justify, the
affects the fundamental right to one's own image [in this case to the protection of
personal data] with that seriousness and in a way that does not save the necessary
connection with the identification of the person object of the information.

fifteenth

Every person responsible for the treatment has conferred obligations in terms of
data protection, in the terms prescribed in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD,
being able to highlight, in terms of what interests us, proactive responsibility,
Article 5.2 of the GDPR, risk assessment and implementation of measures
of adequate security. Obligations that are even more relevant when, as in
In the case we are examining, this one is especially sensitive.

Such obligations do not decline because we are before a data controller
that it is a means of communication.

If we add the diffusion of the victim's voice (with all its nuances), which makes it
identifiable and can be recognized by third parties, with the factual account that makes
in relation to the violation suffered, there is a very high and very likely risk that
may suffer damage to their rights and freedoms. This has happened in other cases
of dissemination of personal data of victims of rape crimes. And this, in addition to
that with the diffusion of the voice of the victim she is being sentenced again to
can be recognized by third parties, when it is not a proportional treatment or
necessary in relation to the information purposes pursued.

It is tremendously significant that, in the case examined, the part
The defendant has immediately withdrawn the recording of the hearing in which the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/28

voice of the victim at the request of the AEPD, without prejudice to which the information
it is still available and is still supplied in its full range. This puts
manifest that in order to provide this specific information it was not necessary, in the
terms of art. 5.1.c) of the GDPR to disseminate the voice of the victim.

16th

Based on the available evidence, it is considered that the party
claimed has processed data that was excessive as it was not necessary for the purpose
for which they were treated.

The known facts could constitute an infringement, attributable to the party
claimed, of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, with the scope expressed in the
Previous legal grounds, which, if confirmed, could mean the
commission of the offense typified in article 83.5, section a) of the GDPR, which under
the heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines"
provides that:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

Article 72. Offenses considered very serious.

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

seventeenth

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, precepts that state:

"Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/28

under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are effective in each individual case,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

"Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
"Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/28

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In this case, the following graduation criteria are considered concurrent:

 Aggravating:

- Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR:

Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement: It is considered that the nature of the
infraction is very serious since it entails a loss of disposition and control over
personal data to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and against
sexual integrity and that by disseminating her personal data she is condemned again
to be recognized by third parties, causing serious damages.

- Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR.

Intentional or negligent infringement: Although it is considered that there was no
intentionality on the part of the communication medium, it is concluded that it was negligent
by not ensuring a procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data
in such sensitive circumstances, especially when on many occasions
distorts the voice in the news so that the person is not recognized
talking.

- Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR.

Categories of personal data affected by the infringement: The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as the one reporting the news, very serious, violent
and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is seriously detrimental to the
affected, since what happened is linked to their sexual life.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/28

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed
by violating the provisions of article 5.1 c) of the GDPR, it allows setting a fine of 50,000
€ (fifty thousand euros).

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection sanctions
EDITORIAL PRENSA CANARIA, S.A., with NIF A35002278, for a violation of the
Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, with a fine of
€50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency confirm the
following provisional measures imposed on EDITORIAL PRENSA CANARIA, S.A.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP, you will be
informs that it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
It will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at €40,000 (forty thousand euros) and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of the specified amount
above, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 85.2, you must do it
effective by depositing it in the restricted account no. ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000 open in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the entity
bank CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause, for
voluntary payment, reduction of the amount of the sanction. You must also send the
Proof of admission to the Sub-Directorate General of Inspection to proceed to close
The file.

By virtue of this, you are notified of the foregoing, and the procedure is revealed.
so that within TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider in your defense and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/28

present the documents and information that it deems pertinent, in accordance with
Article 89.2 of the LPACAP.

B.B.B.
INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR

926-050522

EXHIBIT

***DATE.1 Claim of D.A.A.A.

***DATE.2 Claim of D.A.A.A.

*** DATE.3 Admission for processing

***DATE.3 Urgent withdrawal order to EDITORIAL PRENSA CANARIA, S.A.

***DATE.5 Communication from EDITORIAL PRENSA CANARIA, S.A.

01-24-2022 Report on previous actions

04-29-2022 Agreement to initiate a disciplinary file against EDITORIAL PRENSA
CANARIA, S.A.

05-04-2022 Information to D.A.A.A.

05-18-2022 Allegations of EDITORIAL PRENSA CANARIA, S.A. as well as request
of a copy of the file and extension of the term

05-19-2022 Submission of a copy of the file and extension of the term to EDITORIAL
CANARY PRESS, S.A.
>>

SECOND: On October 11, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 40,000 euros making use of the reduction provided for in
the motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/28

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00195/2022, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/28

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to EDITORIAL PRENSA CANARIA,
S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

968-171022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

