25.07.2022
ANSPDCP annual report for 2021

The 2021 activity report is publicly available on the website of the National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing in the "General information/Public interest information/Annual reports" section.
The annual report contains a synthetic presentation of the Authority's activity, being structured in accordance with the main competences, in the following chapters: Chapter I - General presentation, Chapter II - Regulatory activity, approval, consultation and public information, Chapter III - Monitoring and control activity , Chapter IV – Activities in the field of international relations and Chapter V - Economic management of the Authority.
At the same time, this Report contains statistical milestones highlighted within each chapter, including through comparative graphs with previous years, such as: the number of investigations carried out in total or differentiated (ex officio, respectively based on complaints), the number of complaints and reports received, the number fines applied, the number of corrective measures applied, the number of points of view issued, the number of opinions issued, the number of pending litigations, the number of press releases, the number of corporate/IMI rules.
The 2021 annual report contains case files/cases related to the investigative activity, as well as the most relevant points of view issued, which reflect the complexity of the activity carried out, by referring to the attributions of our institution.
Thus, during 2021, a number of 941 requests were addressed to the National Supervisory Authority to issue points of view on various aspects related to the way of interpretation and application of Regulation (EU) 679/2016, by operators and their proxies, from public and private domain, by other entities, as well as by individuals.
Also, our institution issued opinions on a number of 68 draft normative acts developed by institutions and public authorities that involved various aspects regarding the processing of personal data, pursuant to art. 57 para. (1) lit. c) from Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
Regarding the monitoring and control activity, in 2021 the Authority received a total number of 5006 complaints, notifications and notifications regarding security incidents, based on which 691 investigations were opened.
As a result of the investigations, 36 fines were imposed in the total amount of 371,131.95 lei. At the same time, 93 warnings were applied and 56 corrective measures and 1 warning were ordered.
The activity report for the year 2021 was sent to the competent institutions, in accordance with the provisions of art. 5 para. (2) from Law no. 102/2005 regarding the establishment, organization and functioning of the National Supervisory Authority for the Processing of Personal Data.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P