1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00054/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The D. G. OF THE CIVIL GUARD - MAIN POST OF
*** LOCATION.1 (hereinafter, the claimant) dated 08/07/2019 sent an official letter to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in which a letter is attached for possible
violation of data protection regulations. The claim is directed against
ELECTROTECNIA BASTIDA, S.L. with CIF B96466461 (hereinafter, the claimed).
The reasons on which the claim is based are that in a vacant lot of the polygon
industrial area of the town is in a state of abandonment envelopes containing
confidential medical information, containing personal data
corresponding to workers of the claimed.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced and the documents provided by
the claimant of which this Agency has become aware, the Subdirectorate
General Data Inspection proceeded to carry out actions for the
clarification of the facts in question.

On 10/15/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the complainant of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required him to send to the determined Agency within a period of one month
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

The respondent has not responded to the request made by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

THIRD: On 06/08/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: On 02/12/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
Infraction of article 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 08/07/2019 the G.C. of ***LOCALIDAD.1 sent an official letter to the AEPD,
in which I attach a letter for possible violation of the regulations on the protection of
data by the claimed, motivated by the abandonment of medical documentation
confidentiality of its workers, in a vacant lot in the industrial estate of the
location.

SECOND: Report provided by the G.C. in which it is pointed out that the patrol of the
post went to the industrial estate taking photographs of the place where
found the documents, collecting the same ones that were transferred to the
barracks; that the documents are 29 envelopes, two of them open, from the Clinic
***CLÍNICA.1 (Management of medicine and prevention, SL) appearing in each of them
the name and surnames of the workers of the respondent who request a "Examination
specific health”; examining one of the envelopes that was open and
inside there are two reports: "Specific health examination" and a second
two-page report of the clinic ***CLINICA.2 of ***LOCALIDAD.2 (Valencia); that
On 06/25/2019, the agent signing the report appeared at the address of the
claimed and identified the administrator of the entity, who was unable to explain
of the abandonment of the documentation of its workers in the wasteland.
It is also recorded in the Report of the list of the 29 people affected
for the facts together with the date of the specific health examination.

THIRD: It consists of a photographic report, providing a general photograph of the
abandoned documentation, 29 envelopes; as well as a detailed photograph of one of the
envelopes bearing the confidential letterhead.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the treatment operations have infringed the
provided in this Regulation;
(…)”

Article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must govern the treatment

of personal data and mentions among them that of “integrity and confidentiality”.

The cited article states that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”)”.
(…)

III

The denounced facts materialize in the abandonment in a vacant
of the industrial estate of the town of ***LOCALIDAD.1, documentation
containing confidential data of a personal nature, enabling their access to
third parties; data that correspond to workers of the claimed, violating the
data protection regulations.

Article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.
(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 73, for prescription purposes, qualifies

of “Infringements considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)
g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance
to what is required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.
(…)”

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as
“all those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

From the documentation provided to the file, there are clear indications of
that the claimed party has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when an incident of
security, when documents containing sensitive personal data are abandoned
of workers of the claimed, allowing access to them by third parties with
violation of the established measures.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned provision does not establish a list of
the security measures that are applicable according to the data that is
object of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the
treatment will apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk
that the treatment entails, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of
application, the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of
probability and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and
proportionate to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the measures
technical and organizational information must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and
encryption, the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
resiliency, the ability to restore availability and access to data after a
incident, verification process (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the
effectiveness of the measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as
encryption. These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In the present case, as evidenced by the facts and within the framework of the
investigation file E/09606/2019, the AEPD transferred the defendant on
10/15/2019, the claim submitted for analysis requesting the contribution of
information related to the claimed incidence, without it having been received in this
body any response.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the bankruptcy of
security revealed by the claimant, since it is responsible for taking
decisions aimed at effectively implementing technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
to ensure the confidentiality of the data, restoring its availability and preventing
access to them in the event of a physical or technical incident. However, from the
The documentation provided shows that the entity has not only breached this
obligation, but also the adoption of measures in this regard is unknown, despite
of having notified him of the claim filed.

In accordance with the foregoing, it is estimated that the respondent would be
allegedly responsible for the infringement of the RGPD: the violation of article 32,
infraction typified in its article 83.4.a).

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed,
observe the provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which
point out:

v

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.

In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its

Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

data.

- In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the
sanction of a fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in the
article 83.4.a) of the RGPD for which the claimant is responsible, in an assessment
initial, the following factors are estimated concurrent:

The nature and seriousness of the infringement given that it is data
especially sensitive workers of the claimed.

The merely local scope of the treatment carried out by the entity
claimed.

The high number of people whose data has been affected by the
offending behavior (29).

The respondent entity does not record that it has adopted measures to prevent the
produce similar incidents; has not responded to the request
information of the Agency which affects the lack of cooperation with the
control authority in order to remedy the infringement and mitigate the
possible side effects of it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

There is no evidence that the entity had acted maliciously, although
the performance reveals a serious lack of diligence.

The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
Personal data.

The claimed entity is a small business.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ELECTROTECNIA BASTIDA, S.L., with CIF B96466461, for
an infringement of article 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD,
a fine of €3,000 (three thousand euros), in accordance with article 73.g) of the
LOPDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ELECTROTECNIA BASTIDA, S.L.,
with CIF B96466461.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

