 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.393.1
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

November 16, 2018

Berlin data protection officer opens comprehensive audit of the operation of
Facebook fan pages
 
 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has been in charge since the beginning of November
Hearing procedures at offices of the Berlin state administration, at the political parties
and at a number of companies and organizations e.g. from the commercial, publishing
and financial industry in terms of Facebook fan pages.
 
On June 5, 2018, the European Court of Justice ruled that the operators
Operator of a Facebook fan page together with Facebook for processing
personal data of visitors to the fan page in accordance with data protection law
are responsible.
 
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments
made it clear in September 2018 that fan page operators
consequently the legality of the jointly responsible data processing
must be able to guarantee and prove. Released on September 11, 2018
Facebook signed a supplemental agreement, referring to shared responsibility
relates.
 
However, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has doubts that the
Information published by Facebook so far – also in connection with the
Supplementary Agreement – has provided sufficient to account for the
Legality of processing the data of visitors to the fan page
to be able to put down.
 
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
“The highest European court has clarified that the use of Facebook
established platform, the operators of fan pages not from their
obligations in the field of personal data protection. who of
benefits from these services while personal data processing
triggers must face up to its data protection responsibilities.”
 
 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Publish freedom of information on their website.

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 0
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   