 

 

 
 
511.843.5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

November 16, 2018

 
 
Background to the Facebook fan pages
 
On June 5, 2018, the European Court of Justice ruled
(Case C-210/16) that the operator of a
Facebook fan page together with Facebook for processing
personal data of visitors to the fan
page is responsible under data protection law. The ECJ has
divorce on the interpretation of Art. 2 Letter d of the EU
Data Protection Directive (GDPR) 95/46/EC supported. The considerations
of the judgment, however, can be fully attributed to the
May 2018 applicable legal situation, because the definition of the
Responsible body in Art. 2 letter d of the GDPR 95/46/EG, as a
Body that “alone or together with others about the purposes and
means of processing personal data,
is congruent with the definition of the person responsible in Art. 4 No.
7 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Against this background
the decision also applies after the GDPR has come into force.
 
In the case of joint responsibility, the GDPR provides additional
che requirements laid down in Art. 26 DS-GVO. There-
according to jointly responsible persons are obliged in an agreement
tion to transparently define who has what obligations under the
GDPR fulfilled. In addition, according to Art. 26 Para. 2 DS-GVO
the respective actual functions and relationships of the
Sam responsible towards the persons concerned in the
Agreement duly reflected and the essence of
Agreement must be made available to those concerned.
 
The Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
The federal and state governments (DSK) issued a statement on September 5, 2018
came to a conclusion on the subject (see attachment) and determined that
that the operation of a fan page, as currently offered by Facebook
ten is illegal without an agreement according to Art. 26 DS-GVO. the
DSK made it clear that fan page operators
(Regardless of whether they are public or non-public
Responsible acts) the legality of the jointly
guarantee the responding data processing and provide evidence of this
(Article 5 (2) GDPR). In addition, affected
Individuals their rights under the DS-GVO with and towards everyone
Claim the responsible party (Art. 26 Para. 3 DS-GVO). together
With the decision, the DSK therefore had a number of questions
published, which fan page operators answer
should be able to.
 
On September 11, 2018, Facebook published a so-called "page
Insights supplement regarding the person responsible" (available at:
https://www.facebook.com/legal/terms/page_controller_addendum; in the

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin
Visitor entrance:
Puttkamer Str. 16-18
 
Telephone: (030) 13889-0
Fax: (030) 215 50 50
mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
office hours
 
daily 10 a.m. - 3 p.m., Thurs. 10 a.m. - 6 p.m
(or by appointment)
 
reachability
 
U6: Kochstr.
Bus: M29, 248
 
Internet
 
https://datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

- 2 -

the following "Insights supplement") and "Information on pages
sights” (available at:
https://www.facebook.com/legal/terms/information_about_page_insight
s_data; hereinafter “Insights Information”). Against the background of
ECJ decision of June 5, 2018 and the above decision
the DSK goes the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Information
Onsfreiheit assumes that Facebook with the "page insights
Addendum regarding the person responsible” to his obligations
from Art. 26 DS-GVO without directly referring to Art.
26 GDPR.
 
Questionnaire for the hearings (see press release “Berliner
Data protection officer opens comprehensive examination of the
drive from Facebook fan pages", from November 16, 2018):
 

1. Have you completed the Insights Supplement with Facebook-

sen? If so, how was this done?

2. To which text / to which agreement does the Insights

addition an addition? Please provide us with this
Text available or insert the appropriate content
supplemented by the Insights supplement.
 

3. Is the Insights Addendum an agreement

tion i. s.d. Art. 26 para. 1 sentence 1 GDPR?
 

4. For which specific processing of personal data

According to this agreement, there is a common understanding
answer? Please present this in detail.
 

5. What is among the information provided in the Insights supplement and in

sights information referred to as "insights data"?
Finally, please explain.
 

6. The Insights Supplement refers to the "Processing of In-

sights data”. To which specific process
what are the purposes? Please
explain in detail.
 

7. How will the data subjects

(Facebook members and non-members) about the essential
informed of the agreement according to Art. 26 Para. 2 DS-GVO?

8. What information have you received or are you receiving?

from Facebook about the processing of personal data
of the visitors to your fan page? enabling
Is it the information available to you,
that you fulfill your obligations under the GDPR, in particular
re your obligation under Art. 5 Para. 2 DS-GVO, can
no?
 

9. Please explain how the personal data of the
searchers and visitors to your fan page are processed.
For what purposes does this processing take place?
 

 

 

 

- 3 -

10. On what legal basis or on what legal basis
are you processing the personal data of the
searchers and visitors to your fan page?

11. In what way and with what content are the

data subjects (Facebook members and non-
members) about the processing of their data when visiting
your fan page in accordance with Art. 12 and Art. 13?

12. How do you ensure that the rights of the data subject (Art. 12 et seq.

DS-GVO) can be fulfilled, in particular the rights to
Deletion according to Art. 17 DS-GVO, on restriction of processing
Processing according to Art. 18 DS-GVO, to objection according to Art. 21
DS-GVO and information according to Art. 15 DS-GVO?
 

13. The Insights supplement states in connection with the

Data subject rights: “If a data subject or a
Supervisory authority according to DS-GVO with regard to processing
processing of Insights data and that of Facebook Ireland im
Adopted as part of this Page Insights Supplement
Obligations contacts you (each, a “Request”)
you are obliged to inform us immediately, but at the latest within
within 7 calendar days all relevant information
to conduct. For this purpose you can use this form
pass. Facebook Ireland will respond to requests in accordance with the
incumbent on us under this Page Insights Supplement
answer duties. You agree to promptly all
make reasonable efforts to join us in the
to cooperate in responding to any such request-
ten. You are not authorized to act on behalf of Facebook Ireland
to act or to respond.” Please explain specifically how
Facebook will deal with the requests you submit
and what specific actions you have taken to
check whether the rights of data subjects on this
Ways according to the DS-GVO are fulfilled.
 

14. When your fan page is called up for the first time, even non-

Members created entries in the so-called local storage? too well-
purposes and on what legal basis is this taking place?
 

15. After calling up a subpage within your fan page
offer a session cookie and three cookies with a lifetime
stored between four months and two years? to
what purposes and on what legal basis
this?

 

 

 

 

 

