 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 May 2018 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Index 

 
Index ................................................................................................................................................ 1 
Introduction .................................................................................................................................... 2 
SECTION 1: Article 3 – Territorial scope .......................................................................................... 3 
SECTION 2: Article 5 – Principles relating to processing of personal data ..................................... 4 
SECTION 3: Article 6 – Lawfulness of processing ............................................................................ 5 
SECTION 4: Article 7 – Conditions for consent ............................................................................. 11 
SECTION 5: Article 9 – Processing of special categories of personal data.................................... 13 
SECTION 6: Article 10 – Processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and 

offences ...................................................................................................................... 16 
SECTION 7: .................................................................................................................................... 18 

Article 12 – Transparent information, communication and modalities for the 
exercise of the rights of the data subject .................................................................. 18 
Article 13 – Information to be provided where personal data are collected from 
the data subject ......................................................................................................... 18 
Article 14 – Information to be provided where personal data have not been 
obtained from the data subject ................................................................................. 18 
SECTION 8: Article 15 – Right of access by the data subject ........................................................ 21 
SECTION 9: Article 16 – Right to rectification ............................................................................... 23 
SECTION 10: Article 17 – Right to erasure (“right to be forgotten”) ............................................ 24 
SECTION 11: Article 18 – Right to restriction of processing ......................................................... 25 
SECTION 12: Article 20 – Right to data portability ....................................................................... 26 
SECTION 13: Article 21 – Right to object ...................................................................................... 30 
SECTION 14: Article 22 – Automated individual decision–making, including profiling ................ 32 
SECTION 15: Other provisions relating to the rights of data subjects under Articles 15 to 22 .... 33 
SECTION 16: Article 25 – Data protection by design and by default ............................................ 34 
SECTION 17: Article 28 – Processor (Outsourcing) ....................................................................... 35 
SECTION 18: Article 30 – Records of processing activities ........................................................... 37 
SECTION 19: Article 32 – Security of processing ........................................................................... 39 
SECTION 20: .................................................................................................................................. 40 
Article 33 – Notification of a personal data breach to the supervisory authority .. 40 
Article 34 – Communication of a personal data breach to the data subject .......... 40 
SECTION 21: Article 35 – Data protection impact assessment ..................................................... 42 
SECTION 22: Article 37 – Designation of the data protection officer ........................................... 43 
SECTION 23: .................................................................................................................................. 44 
Article 46 – Transfers subject to appropriate safeguards ....................................... 44 
Article 49 – Derogations for specific situations ....................................................... 44 
SECTION 24: Article 48 – Transfers or disclosures not authorised by Union law ......................... 47 
 

Annex I: Archival Material Retention Periods ....................................................................... 48 

Annex II : Article 29 Data Protection Working Party – Opinion 2/2017 on data                                                                                                     

processing at work  .................................................................................................. 68 
Annex III: Right to data portability ........................................................................................... 92 

 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

1 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Introduction 

 
Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  on  the  protection  of  natural  persons  with  regard  to  the 
processing  of  personal  data  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data  (General  Data 
Protection  Regulation  (GDPR))  will  become  directly  applicable  in  all  Member  States, 
including  Malta,  as  from  25  May  2018.  It  will  replace  the  EU’s  Data  Protection  Directive 
95/46/EC which is currently transposed under the Data Protection Act (Chapter 440 of the 
Laws  of  Malta),  and  provides  for  a  harmonisation  of  the  legal  data  protection  regime 
throughout the EU.  
  
The  GDPR  retains  the  core  rules  stipulated  by  previous  data  protection  legislation  and 
continues to regulate the processing of personal data with its goal being that of protecting 
individuals in this regard.  
 
Banks are amongst the businesses that are directly affected by the GDPR, since they process 
significant amounts of personal data.  

 

These  Guidelines  have  been  developed  after  a  consultation  process  with  the  Information 
and Data Protection Commissioner who ascertained that the provisions of these Guidelines 
comply  with  the  Regulation.  This  notwithstanding,  such  guidelines  and  the  interpretations 
contained therein are without prejudice to any decision which the Commissioner may take 
in relation to complaints and, or any other specific data protection issues.  
 
The purpose of these Guidelines is not to provide a detailed and comprehensive coverage of 
the whole Regulation.  Rather, these Guidelines are intended to focus only on those sections 
of  the  Regulation  which  may  not  be  entirely  clear,  or  which  could  lend  themselves  to 
differing  interpretations,  in  order  that  a  common  understanding  is  arrived  at  and  a 
consistent interpretation is applied across the banking sector. 
 
The Guidelines will be further developed over time, as practical issues and problems arise, 
and  the  banks’  coordinated  response  to  such  issues  is  agreed  and  documented  in  the 
Guidelines.  These  Guidelines  are  also  without  prejudice  to  any  further  Guidelines  which 
might be issued by the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party. 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

2 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 1: Article 3 – Territorial scope 
 
The  Regulation  primarily  applies  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the  context  of  the 
activities  of  an  establishment  of  a  data  controller  or  processor  established  in  the  Union, 
regardless of whether the processing itself takes place within the Union.  Although the term 
“establishment” implies the effective and real exercise of the processing activity through a 
stable  arrangement,  the  legal  form  of  such  arrangement  is  not  a  determining  factor  and 
could be through a branch or a subsidiary with legal personality (Recital 22).  
 
The  Regulation  also  applies  to  businesses  based  outside  the  Union  that  offer  goods  and 
services to, or monitor, individuals in the Union. Therefore, controllers and processors will 
be subject to the GDPR where the processing activities relate to: 
 

 

the offering of goods or services to individuals in the Union. It captures both free and 
paid for goods and services; and 

 

  monitoring the behaviour of individuals in the Union.  

 

In either case, the Regulation will apply  when processing personal data in the Union, thus 
the nationality or habitual residence of those individuals is irrelevant. 
 
These businesses will need to appoint a representative in the Union (Article 27), subject to 
certain  limited exemptions.  Such  a  representative  must  be  established  in  a  Member  State 
where the relevant individuals are based. There is a limited exemption to the obligation to 
appoint  a  representative:  where  the  processing  is  occasional,  unlikely  to  be  a  risk  to 
individuals  and  does  not  involve  large  scale  processing  of  special  categories  of  personal 
data. The representative should be explicitly designated by means of a written mandate of 
the  controller  or  processor  to  act  on  its  behalf  and  should  be  subject  to  enforcement 
proceedings in the event of non-compliance by the controller or processor.  
 
Processors established outside the Union may also be subject to the provisions of the GDPR 
despite the fact that in these circumstances such processor would only be acting upon the 
instructions  of  a  controller.  For  instance,  the  Regulation  shall  still  apply  if  the  processor 
established outside the Union: 
 

 

 

is  dealing  with  a  controller  or  processor  based  in  the  Union.  This  is  because  the 
processor  would  be  processing  personal  data  “in  the  context  of  the  activities  of”  a 
controller or processor in the Union. (Article 3 (1)). In other words, when processing 
the personal data of data subjects who are  in the Union, the provisions of the GDPR 
shall apply; or 
 supplies  services  to  a  controller  or  processor  who  in  turn  supplies  services  to 
provide goods or services to, or monitor, individuals in the Union. In particular, the 
processor’s  activities  arguably  “relate  to”  that  offering  of  goods  or  services,  or 
monitoring  (Article  3  (2)).  Therefore,  in  some  cases,  processors  based  outside  the 
Unionmight  be  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  GDPR  if  it  only  deals  with  entities 
based outside the Union. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

3 

 
 
 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 2: Article 5 – Principles relating to processing of personal data 

 

The guiding principles are listed under Article 5 (‘Principles relating to processing of personal 
data’).  These  are  worth  recalling  at  the  outset  as  any  reading  or  interpretation  of  other 
sections must be consistent with these principles. 
 
Article  5  of  the  GDPR  requires  a  controller  (the person  who  determines the purposes  and 
means of processing of personal data) to ensure that: 
 

a)  personal data are processed fairly, lawfully and in a transparent manner; 
b)  personal data are only collected for specific, explicitly stated and legitimate purposes 
and are not processed for any purpose that is incompatible with that for which the 
information is collected; 

c)  personal  data  that  are  processed  are  adequate,  relevant  and  limited  to  what  is 

necessary in relation to the purposes of the processing; 

d)  personal data that are processed are accurate and, where necessary, up to date and 
all  reasonable  measures  are taken to  complete, correct, block  or erase data to the 
extent that such data are incomplete or incorrect, having regard to the purposes for 
which they are processed; 

e)  personal data are kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no 
longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed; 

 
Personal  data  are  kept  in  a  form  which  permits  identification  of  data  subjects  for  no 
longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed  
 
Data on customers should not be retained for a longer period than is necessary. 
 
In this regard, banks should be guided by the retention periods which were agreed by the 
Malta  Bankers’  Association  with  the  Office  of  the  Information  and  Data  Protection 
Commissioner (see Annex I to these Guidelines). Furthermore,  with reference to retention 
periods,  it  should  be  emphasised  that  in  view  of  the  amplified  requirements  to  inform 
clients  about  the  data  processing  pursuant  to  Articles  13  and  14,  banks  are  required  to 
inform clients about the intended storage periods, or at least the criteria used to determine 
such  retention  periods  (e.g.  by  referring  to  the  specific  legal  obligations  laying  down  a 
mandatory retention period).  
 

f)  personal  data  are  processed  in  a  manner  that  ensures  appropriate  security  of  the 

personal data, using appropriate technical or organisational measures. 

 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

4 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 3: Article 6 – Lawfulness of processing 

 

Apart from the principles detailed in Article 5 of the GDPR, processing must also satisfy at 
least one of the legal criteria under Article 6. Where special categories of personal data are 
processed, at least one of the legal criteria under Article 9 must be satisfied (see Section 5). 
 
Article  6  (1)  makes  it  clear  that  the  processing  of  personal  data  will  only  be  lawful  if  it 
satisfies at least one of the following six processing conditions:   
 

a. 

If the data subject has unambiguously given his consent. 

 
This  implies  that  the  individual  has  given  his  consent  to  the  processing  for  one  or  more 
specific  purposes.  By  definition,  consent  must  be  freely  given,  specific  and  informed.    The 
controller  must  keep  records  in  order  to  be  able  to  demonstrate  that  consent  has  been 
given  by  the  data  subject.  Reference  must  also  be  made  to  Article  7  of  the  GDPR  (see 
Section 4) which makes provision for the conditions for consent. 
 
Where  consent  has  been  given  under  the  Data  Protection  Directive  (as  transposed  into 
national law by the Data Protection Act), it will continue to be valid under the Regulation to 
the extent that it meets the new and stringent requirements for consent provided for by the 
GDPR. 

 

Controllers must ensure that their procedures to obtain consent are valid in terms of the 
prescriptive requirements set out in the GDPR. Procedures must also be in place to record 
and act upon a withdrawal of consent. 
 
If  the  individual  has  not  given  his  consent  to  the  processing  (as  qualified  above),  the 
processing is only allowed if it falls under one of the following five headings. 
 

b.  If processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject 
is party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering 
into a contract. 

 
Therefore,  processing in  order to provide  a  product  or  service  requested  by  a  customer  is 
perfectly permissible, and no further consent is needed. 

 

Processing  is  necessary  for  the  performance  of  a  contract  to  which  the  data  subject  is 
party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a 
contract. 
 
In those instances where banks process personal data which are necessary for the provision 
of  a  service  requested  by  a  client  or  prospective  client,  in  line  with  agreed  terms  and 
conditions  aimed  at  regulating  the  relationship  between  the  client  and  the  bank,  such 
processing is considered legitimate under Article 6(1) (b).  
 
Examples 
 
(1)  Various  types  of  insurance  policies  (life,  fire,  theft,  etc…)  are  regularly  pledged  to  the 
banks as security for credit facilities extended to the pledgor himself, or to a third party 
for whom the pledgor is standing as surety.   

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

5 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

In order to complete and validate their security, the banks give notice of such pledges to the 
insurance  companies  concerned,  also  requesting  the  current  surrender  value  /  expected 
maturity  value  of  life  policies,  confirmation  that  the  premium  has  been  paid  to  date, 
notification  by  the  insurance  company  to  the  bank  in  the  event  of  future  premium 
remaining unpaid, and confirmation that there are no existing prior-ranking charges on the 
policies. 
 
Processing of the above data at the time that a policy is pledged, and periodically thereafter, 
is essential for the banks to be able to look at the pledged policies as effective security, and 
such processing should not require the pledgor’s specific consent as the pledgor himself is a 
party to the pledge agreement.  Moreover, such processing ‘is necessary for a purpose that 
concerns a legitimate interest of the controller’ (see Article 6 (1) (f)).    
 
The position of the insurance companies, when responding to such requests by the banks, is 
likewise covered by Article 6 (1) (f) (see below). 
 
(2)   In the course of their business, banks discount or accept as security Bills of Exchange 

which are payable to, or have been endorsed in favour of, their customers. 

 
Bills  of  Exchange  are  negotiable  instruments,  and  by  their  very  nature  contain  details  of 
various third parties, including the drawer, drawee, beneficiary and subsequent endorsees, 
all  of  whom  are  parties  to  the  Bill  of  Exchange.    As  such,  no  notification  to  any  of  these 
parties is deemed necessary when banks are processing Bills of Exchange handed to them by 
their customers for discounting or as security for credit facilities. 
 

c.  If  processing  is  necessary  for  compliance  with  a  legal  obligation  to  which  the 

controller is subject. 

 

This  applies  in  situations  involving  data  processing  which  is  carried  out  to  comply  with 
statutory obligations imposed by law on controllers, e.g. reporting to the tax authorities, or 
reporting of suspicious transactions under the Prevention of Money Laundering Regulations.  
Only legal obligations under Union or national law will satisfy this condition. 
 
Processing  is  necessary  for  compliance  with  a  legal  obligation  to  which  the  controller  is 
subject. 
 
(1)  This covers processing due to statutory duties imposed by law such as reporting or due 
diligence  obligations  arising  from  the  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  Regulations, 
reporting to tax authorities in terms of FATCA or other agreements or laws. 

 
(2)  Banks  must  necessarily  process  and  maintain  data  relating  to  attachment  /  freezing 
orders issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering legislation, persons who have 
been interdicted, garnishee orders and any other order issued by a Court of law or any 
other competent authority.  

 
(3)  Banks  are  required,  under  the  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  legislation,  to  process 

and retain copies of customers’ identification documents.   

 
Where the information is directly requested from the clients, banks shall inform clients that 
such data are being requested due to its statutory requirements.  
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

6 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

In other instances, where banks process personal information as part of their statutory or 
legal obligations, and such data are not directly obtained from the client, banks are exempt 
from  notifying  the  client  where  the  individual  already  has  the  information,  or  where 
processing or disclosure is expressly laid down by law to which the bank is subject and which 
provides appropriate measures to protect data subject’s rights.  
 

d.  If processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or 

of another natural person. 

 
The  Regulation  does  not  define  ‘vital  interests’.    This  is  typically  limited  to  processing 
needed for medical emergencies.  

 

e.  If  processing  is  necessary  for  the  performance  of  a  task  that  is  carried  out  in  the 

public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller  
 

 
This  article  may  also  be  utilised  when  processing  of  personal  data  is  necessary  for  the 
performance  of  an  activity  that  is  carried  out  in  the  public  interest.    The  notion  of  public 
interest is developed mainly through case law. 
 

f. 

If  processing  is  necessary  for  a  purpose  that  concerns  a  legitimate  interest  of  the 
controller or of a third party, except where such interest is overridden by the interest 
to  protect  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  data  subject,  in  particular 
where the data subject is a child.  
 

This  principle  sets  up  a  balance  between  two  interests.  Thus,  if  the  consequences  of  the 
processing  are  detrimental  to  a  particular  individual,  and  there  are  no  other  ‘necessary’ 
grounds  that  would  take  precedence,  then  one  would  expect  the  individual’s  interests  to 
override the controller’s interests in the continuation of the processing.   
 
Processing is necessary for a purpose that concerns a legitimate interest of the controller 
or of a third party, except where such interest is overridden by the interest to protect the 
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject, in particular where the data subject 
is a child. 
 
(1)  Lending  is  one  of  the  banks’  major  business  activities  and  ‘Loans  and  Advances  to 
Customers’  normally  account  for  a  large  proportion  (+50%)  of  their  total  assets.    Such 
business  carries  significant  potential  credit  risks  which  banks  must  manage  with  great 
caution  and  prudence  in  the  interests  of  their  shareholders,  customers,  staff  and  the 
financial services industry in general. 

 
For this reason, banks consider it vital and certainly in their legitimate interest to maintain 
relevant  information  to  alert  their  lending  officers  to  the  risks  of  making  new  or  further 
advances to certain individuals who, on the basis of past experience, clearly do not qualify 
for such new or additional lending. 
 
Typically, the nature of the information maintained would include details of: 
 
  Defaulting  borrowing  customers,  where  recovery  of  the  debt  is  doubtful  or  very 

problematic. 

  Customers whose current account or payment card account has been misconducted. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

7 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Individuals  (both  customers  and  non-customers)  whose  application  for  credit  facilities 
has been declined by any branch of the bank. 
Individuals  who  have  been  declared  bankrupt,  or  in  respect  of  whom  bankruptcy 
proceedings are in course. 

  Drawers of cheques returned unpaid to the bank by other banks (on which the cheques 

are drawn) with answer ‘Refer to Drawer’. 

 

  Drawees  (both  customers  and  non-customers)  of  Bills  of  Exchange  which  were 
discounted  /accepted  as  security  by  the  bank,  and  which  were  not  honoured  when 
payment fell due. 
Individuals (both customers and non-customers) who are known / suspected of having 
forged  or  stolen  cheques,  or  to  be  in  possession  of  forged  or  stolen  cheques.    Such 
information  would  need  to  be  supported  by  a  police  report  or  other  reliable  sources 
(e.g.  the  bank’s  security  officer  who  would  have  conducted  the  necessary 
investigations). 
Information  received  from  Credit  Reference  Agencies,  the  Central  Credit  Register 
maintained by the Central Bank of Malta and from other reference databases. 

 

 
For obvious reasons, banks may need to retain such information even after termination of 
their banking relationship with the customers concerned.  However, the banks shall review 
all  such  information  periodically  to  ensure  that  it  is  correct/  up-to-date,  and  judiciously 
consider  deletion  of  such  information  in  those  cases  where  retention  of  the  data  is  no 
longer deemed necessary. 
 
(2)  The  processing  of  personal  data  by  the  banks  for  the  purposes  of  pledged  insurance 
policies and any notice of pledge which is issued to insurance companies is covered not 
only by Article 6 (1) (b) but also by Article 6 (1) (f).  

 
This  interpretation  is  supported  by  the  wording  of  Article  6  (1)  (f)  which  permits  the 
processing  of  personal  data  when  such  processing  “...is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the 
legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party. . .” (i.e. the banks in the 
case of pledged policies).   
 
It is certainly in the banks’ legitimate interest to be informed that a pledgor has not paid his 
premium, since this would enable the bank to pay the premium itself (as it is legally entitled 
to do) and thus preventing the lapse of the policy which could be extremely detrimental to 
the  bank.    Likewise,  a  bank  has  a  legitimate  interest to ascertain  the  value  of the  security 
against which it is allowing credit facilities to a debtor. 
 
 
 
(3)  The ‘Know Your Customer’ principle is particularly relevant to bank business, and banks 
must  seek  to  have  maximum  knowledge  of  a  prospective  customer’s  affairs,  including 
details of his background, means, etc. This is also necessary for banks to comply with the 
due  diligence  procedures  which  are  called  for  under  the  anti-money  laundering 
legislation (see Article 6 (1) (c) above). 

 
While  the  processing  which  is  necessary  as  part  of  the  ‘Know  Your  Customer’  and  due 
diligence  process  may  be  carried  out  in  view  of  the  legal  obligations  to  which  banks  are 
subject and also for purposes concerning legitimate business interests, a distinction needs 
to be drawn between instances where processing is necessary in view of such obligations or 
for  purposes  involving  core  business  activities  of  banks,  and  other  situations  where  the 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

8 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

processing  is  intended  to  provide  value-added  services  aimed  at  specific  clients  based  on 
their unique customer profile. When collecting and processing personal data as part of their 
due  diligence,  Banks  should  take  into  account  the  principles  contained  in  Article  5  of  the 
GDPR, more specifically the purpose limitation principle.  
 
In  this  regard,  where  customers  are  subject  to  profiling  aimed  at  targeting  them  with 
specific customised offers, products or services, similar profiling would require the consent 
of such persons.  
 
Other  market  segmentation  or  profitability  analyses,  carried  out  for  the  purposes  of 
enabling the bank to render an overall better service to its customers, may be considered in 
the legitimate interest of banks.   
 
 

The Necessity Factor 

 

The use of the word ‘necessary’ in Article  6 (b)–(f) should not be overlooked.  This word 
implies that under these provisions, processing is permitted only if the purpose is attained 
by means of such processing. 

 

Why processing conditions really matter 
 
Under the GDPR, it is important to clearly understand and identify the legal ground for the 
processing of personal data. In view of the prescriptive nature of consent under the GDPR, 
relying on consent as a legal basis will only be possible in limited circumstances where all 
the conditions required for a valid consent (as outlined in Section 7), are fulfilled.  
 
 

Other  processing  operations  where  banks  cannot  rely  on  consent  as  legal  ground  for 
processing.  
 

CCTV 

 
Video  surveillance  constitutes  processing  of  personal  data.    Persons  within  the  monitored 
area  must  be  aware  that  they  are  being  monitored.    For  this  purpose  banks  should  affix 
appropriate signs, which are clearly visible, on the façade of their premises. The signs should 
clearly state the purpose of processing.   
 
Normally, CCTV recordings within a bank are used for security purposes. It is not excluded, 
however,  that  available  CCTV  recordings  could  be  used  by  a  bank  for  the  purpose  of  an 
internal  investigation  involving  a  member(s)  of  its  staff  provided,  however,  that  the  staff 
concerned  had  been  made  aware  that  they  could  have  been  recorded  on  the  bank’s 
monitoring system. 
 
CCTV  recordings  shall  not  be  retained  for  a  period  longer  than  is  necessary.  In  so  far  as 
customer-facing  footage  is  concerned,  such  period  shall  not  be  longer  than  30  days, 
provided that where specific footage is used in connection with an investigation, a copy of 
the  relevant  extract  from  the  recordings  may  be  retained  as  evidence  until  the  case  is 
concluded.  Back-office  operations  footage  does  not  as  a  rule  capture  the  faces  of  the 
employees, but only their hands and the cash handling process. In such cases, the footage of 
back-office operations can be kept for a period which is not longer than 90 days.  

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

9 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 
CCTV’s in the form of pin-hole cameras are used by banks on ATM’s.  In this case, since such 
monitoring  is  carried  out  mainly  for  the  prevention  of  crimes,  no  signs  indicating  the 
presence of the pin-hole camera need be affixed to the ATM. 
 
Telephone Recordings 
  
Recordings  of  telephone  conversations  constitute  processing  of  personal  data.  Callers  and 
staff  should  therefore  be  advised  beforehand  if  such  recording  is  being  carried  out.  This 
requirement  is  also  applicable  to  the  recording  of  outbound  calls.  In  similar  cases,  staff 
members shall, prior to proceeding with the telephone call, inform the recipient that the call 
will be recorded.  
 
The  retention  period  for  telephone  recordings  varies  depending  on  the  purpose  for 
processing such recordings. As a general rule, telephone recordings ought not be kept for a 
period  longer  than  thirty  (30)  days.  However,  those  telephone  recordings  which  have  a 
bearing on the legal or contractual obligations of the bank can be kept for the term  of the 
contract or for as long as the legal obligation subsists. 
 
In  the  case  of  all  telephone  recordings  retained  for  training  purposes,  the  identity  of  the 
person and as much as possible the voice of the person ought to be masked. 
 
Monitoring of Electronic Mail and Internet Usage 
 
In accordance with the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party’s Opinion 2/2017 on data 
processing at work (adopted on 8 June 2017), when processing data relating to the use of 
technologies by employees, banks as employers should always consider whether: 
 
  The processing activity is necessary, and if so, the legal grounds that apply; 
  The proposed processing of personal data is fair to the employees; 
  The processing activity is proportionate to the concerns raised; and 
  The processing activity is transparent. 
 
Where it is the bank’s policy to monitor staff e-mails and Internet usage, this policy should 
be clearly stated and communicated to all staff. It is recommended that in these instances 
banks adopt a read and sign approach.  
 
Further  detailed  guidance  on  the  monitoring  by  employers  of  their  employees’  use  of 
technology at the workplace or outside the workplace can be accessed by reference to the 
Article 29 Data Protection Working Party’s Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at work – see 
Annex II to these Guidelines.  
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

10 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 4: Article 7 – Conditions for consent 

 

(i) 

(ii) 
 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

Article 7 of the GDPR stipulates the following conditions for consent: 
 
Plain language 
 
A  request  for  consent  must  be  in  an  intelligible  and  easily  accessible  form  in  clear 
and plain language. 
 
Separate 

Where  the  request  for  consent  is  part  of  a  written  form,  it  must  be  clearly 
distinguishable from other matters.  
 
 Affirmative action   
 
The  consent  must  consist  of  a  clear  affirmative  action.  Inactivity  or  silence  is  not 
enough and the use of “pre-ticked boxes” is not permitted.   
 
Consent to all purposes  
 
If  the  relevant  processing  has  multiple  purposes,  consent  must  be  given  for  all  of 
them. For example, in the context of the provision of a service, it is not possible to 
rely  on  the  consent  obtained  in  this  regard  if  direct  marketing  is  envisaged.  A 
separate consent must be obtained for the latter.  
No detriment  
 
Consent will not be valid if the individual does not have a genuine free choice or if it 
is detrimental to him/her should he/she refuse or withdraw consent.  
 
No power imbalance  
 
Consent  might  not  be  valid  if  there  is  a  clear  imbalance  of  power  between  the 
individual and the controller. 
 

(vii)  Unbundled consent  

 
 “Bundle Consent” is not permitted. Where different processing activities are taking 
place, consent is not valid unless the individual can consent to them separately.  
 

(viii)  Not tied to contract  

 
Consent is not valid if it is a condition for the performance of a contract.  
 

(ix)  Withdrawable 

 
 The  individual  can  withdraw  consent  at  any  time  and    prior  to  giving consent,  the 
data  subject  shall  be  informed  thereof.  For  a  data  subject  to  withdraw  his  or  her 
consent, it should be as easy as it was at the stage when the consent was given.  
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

11 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Explicit 

When special categories of personal data or  when transferring personal dataoutside 
the  Union,  the  consent  must  be  explicit.  This  entails  a  degree  of  formality,  for 
example,  the  individual  being  requested  to  tick  a  box  containing  the  express  word 
“consent”.  
 

 
 
 

(x) 
 

 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

12 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 5: Article 9 – Processing of special categories of personal data 
 
Article 9 of the GDPR deals with the processing of ‘special categories of personal data’ and 
places much stronger controls when processing such data.  
 
‘Special categories of personal data’ are in terms of the GDPR (Article 9 (1)) ”personal data 
revealing  race or ethnic origin, political opinions, religions or philosophical beliefs, or trade 
union  membership”  as  well  as  “genetic  data,  biometric  data  for  the  purpose  of  uniquely 
identifying a natural  person, data concerning health or  data concerning  a natural person’s 
sex life or sexual orientation” 
 
Any  processing  of  special  categories  of  personal  data  must  satisfy  at  least  one  of  the 
following conditions:  

 

a.  Explicit consent  

 
The individual has given explicit consent.  
 

b.  Legal obligation related to employment  

 
The processing is necessary for a legal obligation in the field of employment and social 
security law or for a collective agreement. 
 

c.  Vital interests  
 

The processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the individual or of 
another  natural  person.  This  is  typically  limited  to  processing  needed  for  medical 
emergencies. 

 
d.  Not for profit bodies  

 
The processing is carried out in the course of the legitimate activities of a not-for-profit 
body  and  only  relates  to  members  or  related  persons  and  the  personal  data  is  not 
disclosed outside that body without consent. 
 

e.  Public information  

 
The  processing  relates  to  personal  data  which  is  manifestly  made  public  by  the  data 
subject. 
 

f.  Legal claims  

 
The processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims or 
whenever courts are acting in their judicial capacity. 
 

g.  Substantial public interest  

 
 The  processing  is  necessary  for  reasons  of  substantial  public  interest,  on  the  basis  of 
Union or Member State law. 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

13 

 
 
 

h.  Healthcare  

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 The  processing  is  necessary  for  healthcare  purposes  and  is  subject  to  suitable 
safeguards. 

 

i.  Public health  

 
 The  processing  is  necessary  for  public  health  purposes  and  is  based  on  Union  or 
Member State law.  
 
 or  
 

j.  Archive  

 
The  processing  is  necessary  for  archiving  purposes  in  the  public  interest,  scientific  or 
historical  research  purposes  or  statistical  purposes  and  is  based  on  Union  or  Member 
State law.  

 
Special categories of personal data  
 
Banks may process special categories of personal data in relation to employees. Such data is 
usually obtained from the employees themselves. When the processing of special categories 
of data is necessary for the bank to carry out its obligations and exercise specific rights in 
the  field  of  employment  and  social  security  and  social  protection  law  in  so  far  as  it  is 
authorised by law, the employees’ explicit consent is not required for the processing of such 
data.  Strict  levels  of  access  and  access  rights  apply  in  relation  to  special  categories  of 
personal  data,  hence  allowing  access  only  to  those  officials  who  must  essentially  process 
said data in the performance of their duties.  
 
Examples of special categories of personal data: 
 
(1) Data concerning cause of illness 
 
As a rule, whenever a bank employee reports that he or she is unable to attend work due to 
illness,  the  bank  cannot  request  such  employee  to  divulge  the  cause  of  his  or  her  illness. 
That said, banks may still send a medical practitioner and subject an employee to a medical 
check-up, provided that the cause of illness is only processed by such practitioner, and the 
bank will only receive confirmation as to whether the person was unfit for work. Should an 
employee repeatedly report sick, or in the event of long-term illness, the bank can request 
the medical practitioner to draw up a brief report on the employee, including where strictly 
necessary general information on the employee’s medical condition, in order to enable the 
assessment of his  working  capacity  by the employer  (vide  Article  9  (2)  (h)).  The  employee 
should be informed accordingly. 
 
(2) Pre-employment medical assessment 
 
It  is  permissible  for  banks  to  request  employees  selected  to  be  employed  by  the  bank, 
following  a  recruitment  process,  to  attend  a  medical  examination  in  order  for  a  medical 
professional to ascertain that they are fit for work. It is sufficient for the certificate issued by 
the  medical  professional  to  state  that  the  prospective  employee  is  fit  for  work,  with  no 
further  details  as  to  the  diagnosis  divulged  therein.  Should  the  certificate  not  give  the 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

14 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

prospective  employee  a  clean  bill  of  health,  banks  may  request  further  explanations  from 
the medical professional who would have assessed the candidate. 
 
Should a candidate for a post not be recruited further to such medical assessment, the bank 
should  only  retain  records  of  such  medical  assessment  or  diagnosis  for  a  period  of  four 
months  which  is  the  legal  period  within  which  the  candidate  could  contest  the  non-
engagement by the employer (vide Article 30 (1) of the Employment and Industrial Relations 
Act,  Chapter  452  of  the  Laws  of  Malta).  Should  the  bank  decide  to  engage  the  employee 
despite  the  negative  diagnosis,  the  medical  records  relating  to  such  an  employee  can  be 
retained  in  the  file  should  the  medical  condition  have  an  impact  on  the  working 
environment  and  in  order  to  safeguard  the  health  and  well-being  of  the  employee 
himself/herself. In view of the sensitive nature of the data, this should be subject to strict 
security measures and shall be kept separate from other HR records which are likely to be 
processed as part of routine HR practices (e.g. payroll, CV, employment contract, benefits). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

15 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 6:  
 
Article 10 – Processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and 
offences 
 
Article 10 of the GDPR restricts the processing of personal data concerning legal offences.   
Information  about  criminal  convictions,  offences  or  related  security  measures  can  be 
processed  only  pursuant  to  Union  or  national  law,  or  under  the  control  of  an  official 
authority.  There  are  no  other  justifications.  Even  consent  from  the  individual  will  not 
provide a justification under the Regulation to process this type of personal data. 
 
Processing concerning legal offences 
 
Article  10  of  the  GDPR  precludes  the  banks  from  processing  data  relating  to  offences, 
criminal convictions or security measures. 
 
(1) Bank customers 
 
For  the  reasons  elaborated  upon  in  Section  3,  it  is  critically  important  for  the  banks  to 
maintain  relevant  information to  alert  their  lending  officers  to the  risks  of  making  new  or 
further  advances  to  individuals  who  clearly  do  not  qualify  for  such  new  or  additional 
lending. Therefore, the banks may retain, on a particular customer file, press cuttings/ other 
information  relating  to  court  proceedings  /  convictions  against  that  customer  and  similar 
information  on  any  other  person  (e.g.  a  debtor  of  the  customer)  where  such  information 
may  affect  the  relationship  between  the  bank  and  the  customer.  This  on  the  basis  of 
maintaining the recognised ‘Know Your Customer’ principle. 
 
(2) Applicants for business 
 
In so far as applicants for business are concerned, criminal record checks about an applicant 
for business are carried out as part and parcel of the due diligence exercise which banks are 
obliged to conduct in terms of Prevention of Money Laundering laws or any other law. The 
decision as to whether a record of such checks is to be retained depends on whether or not 
the bank decides to take the applicant on board as a client or not.  
 
If  the  applicant  becomes  a  client,  it  is  imperative  that  the  latter  is  informed  of  the  data 
being retained about him or her. It is important that strict retention periods for such data 
are adhered to. In the case of information which is publicly available, the bank could link to 
the official source rather than create its own record.  
 
If an applicant for business is refused by the bank, the bank may wish to keep an annotation 
of the fact in the eventuality that the same applicant seeks to re-apply. It is important that 
any black lists created by the bank are not retained for longer than necessary to fulfil the 
conduct of due diligence requirements. In the case of information which is publicly available 
in relation to any such applicant for business, the bank could link to the official source rather 
than create its own record.  Banks can also retain a flagging to the effect that business was 
declined due to diligence findings without maintaining any additional records. 
 
 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

16 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

(3) Recruitment 
 
In terms of Section 7.4 of the FIAU’s Implementing Procedures on Anti-Money Laundering, 
banks shall ensure that they have in place appropriate procedures for due diligence when 
engaging  employees.  This  would  generally  include  obtaining  professional  references, 
confirming  employment  history  and  qualifications  and  requesting  a  recent  police  conduct 
certificate. Consequently, banks as employers are under obligation to process such data as 
required in terms of the Implementing Procedures. In order to prove that they have abided 
by  such  requirement,  banks  are  allowed  to  process  and  keep  copies  of  police  conduct 
certificates  for  selected  candidates,  given  that  such  processing  is  deemed  in  compliance 
with Article 6 (1) ( c ) of the GDPR as discussed in Section 3. That said, given its sensitivity, 
such document shall be retained separately from other HR records which are accessed on a 
regular basis by HR personnel. 
 
 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

17 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 7:   
 
Article 12 – Transparent information, communication and modalities for the 
exercise of the rights of the data subject  
 
Article  13  –  Information  to  be  provided  where  personal  data  are  collected 
from the data subject 
 
Article 14 – Information  to  be provided where personal data have not been 
obtained from the data subject 
 
 
The  Regulation  makes  provision  for  the  information  which  must  be  provided  in  privacy 
notices.  It also requires controllers to ensure their privacy notices are “concise, transparent, 
intelligible and easily accessible” (Article 12 (1) of the GDPR). 
 
The information which must be included in the privacy notice is the following: 
 

  The identity and contact details of the controller and details of your representative 

(where applicable). 

  The contact details of your data protection officer.  
  The  purpose  and  legal  basis  of  processing.  Where  legitimate  interests  are  relied 

upon, details of those interests.  

  The right to withdraw consent (if this is the basis for such processing). 
  The categories of personal data processed. This is only needed when personal data is 

obtained from a third party. 

  The recipients or categories of recipients of personal data.  
  The source of the personal data, including use of public sources. This is only needed 

when personal data is obtained from a third party. 

  Details of any intended transfer outside the Union. Details of any safeguards relied 

upon and the means to obtain copies of transfer agreements.  

  The period for which data will be stored or the criteria used to determine this period. 
  A list of the individual’s rights as per Article 13 (2) (b) and Article 14 (2) (c) namely, 
the  right  to  request  from  the  controller  access  to  and  rectification  or  erasure  of 
personal data or restriction of processing concerning the data subject or to object to 
processing as well as the right to data portability . 

  Details  of  any  automated  decision  making,  including  details  of  the  logic  used  and 

potential consequences for the individual.  

  Whether  provision  of  personal  data  is  a  statutory  or  contractual  requirement, 
whether  disclosure  is  mandatory  and  the  consequence  of  not  disclosing  personal 
data. This is only needed when collecting personal data directly from the individual.  

  The right to complain to a supervisory authority. 

 
A privacy notice must be supplied to data subjects at the time they provide you with their 
personal data. If you obtain that personal data from or disclose it to a third party, the notice 
must be provided:  
 

  within a reasonable time after obtaining the data, but at the latest within a month; 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

18 

 

 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 

 

 

if  the  personal  data  is  used  to  communicate  with  the  individual,  at  the  latest  when  that 
communication is made; and 
 
if the personal data is disclosed to a third party, at the latest when that data is disclosed. 
 
 
If  you  obtain  that  personal  data  from  a  third  party,  there  is  no  need  to  provide  a  privacy 
notice if:  
 
the data subject already has the information; 
 

  providing  the 

impossible  or 

information  would  be 

involve  disproportionate  effort, 
particularly where the processing is for archiving, scientific or historical research purposes 
or statistical purposes; 
 
the  obtaining  or  disclosure  is  pursuant  to  Union  or  Member  State  law  and  there  are 
appropriate measures to protect the data subject; or 
 
the information is subject to professional secrecy. 
 
Finally, if you process that personal data for a new purpose, you must give prior notification 
to the data subject. 
 
Article 12 (1) - Information to data subject 
 
Banks must have in place a general privacy policy covering all types of data processing. They 
should  also  have  internal  privacy  policies  dealing  with  the  processing  of  specific  types  of 
personal  data,  for  instance,  on  cctv  recordings,  telephone  recordings  and  also  the 
monitoring of email and internet usage of staff members. Apart from information within the 
meaning  of  Article  13,  such  policies  should  provide  detailed  information  the  modalities 
concerning the  intended  usage  of  such  data,  including the  situations  where  the  bank  may 
resort  to  such  systems  (e.g.  review  the  CCTV  recordings,  or  conduct  specific  monitoring 
concerning email or internet usage).   
 
 
 
Article 14 – Data Collected from other sources 
 
It is normal for banks in the course of their business, to require references from third parties 
on individuals who may be existing or prospective account holders, borrowers, guarantors, 
etc.  Such references are collected from third parties, including Credit Reference Agencies, 
other banks, other existing customers and professional persons.  Furthermore,  banks  may  
request    additional  documentation    from    third  parties  such  as  professional  references  in 
order    to    screen    prospective    employees    as  required  under  the  FIAU  Implementing  
Procedures,  or  to  fulfil  obligations emanating from other laws or for any other purpose. 
 
 
In all such cases, since the necessary information is being sourced by the bank from a third 
party,  the  bank  is  obliged  in  terms  of  Article  14  of  the  GDPR  to  inform  the  potential 
customer/employee of the fact that the bank is sourcing such information from a third party 
and this upon first contact with the individual concerned. Within the context of the specific 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

19 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

scenarios  described  in  the  first  paragraph  above,  the  individual  must  therefore  be  so 
informed  upon  applying  for  a  particular  facility  or  the  opening  of  an  account  or  upon 
applying for a specific post with the bank. 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

20 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 8: Article 15 – Right of access by the data subject 
 
Individuals have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not 
personal  data  concerning  him  or  her  are  being  processed,  and,  where  that  is  the  case,  a 
copy of the personal data and the following information: 
 

  The  purposes  of  the  processing:  The  individual  should  have  the  right  to  verify  the 

lawfulness of the processing the bank is carrying out; 

  The categories of personal data concerned; 
  The recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been or will 
be disclosed, in particular recipients in third countries or international organisations. 
Where  personal  data  are  transferred  to  a  third  country  or  to  an  international 
organisation, the data subject shall have the right to be informed of the appropriate 
safeguards relating to the transfer (see Section 23); 

  Where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be stored, or, 

if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period; 

  The existence of the right to request from the controller rectification or erasure of 
personal  data  or  restriction  of  processing  of  personal  data  concerning  the  data 
subject or to object to such processing; 

  The right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; 
  Where  the  personal  data  are  not  collected  from  the  data  subject,  any  available 

information as to their source;  

  The  existence  of  automated  decision-making,  including  profiling,  and  meaningful 
information  about  the  logic  involved,  as  well  as  the  significance  and  the  envisaged 
consequences of such processing for the data subject. 
 

Whereas the controller must respond to the subject access request for free, a fee may be 
charged  if  the  individual  asks  for  further  copies  of  the  personal  data.  The  bank  may  also 
refuse  to  respond  to  the  request  if  it  is  manifestly  unfounded  or  excessive  (or  charge  an 
administrative  fee).  Where  large  volumes  of  personal  data  are  processed,  the  individual 
should specify exactly what information or processing the request relates to.  

 

It  must  be  possible  to  make  requests  electronically.  Where  such  a  request  is  made,  the 
information  should  also  be  provided  electronically,  unless  otherwise  requested  by  the 
individual.  
 
The controller is entitled to withhold personal data if disclosure would “adversely affect the 
rights and freedoms of others” (Article 15 (4)).  
 
With  reference  to  the  time  for  compliance  in  order  to  fulfil  requests  in  relation  to  this 
right, the right to reject any such request, or the right to impose a fee, reference should be 
made to Section 15. 
 
Article 15 – Right of access 
 
1.  Upon  the  request  of  a  data  subject,  banks  are  obliged  to  provide  to  him/her  not  only 
“confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning him or her are being processed, 
and,  where  that  is  the  case,  access  to  the  personal  data  and”  certain  “information”,  but 
banks  must  also  “provide  a  copy  of  the  personal  data  undergoing  processing”.  Strict 
timelines as defined in Section 15 of these Guidelines must be adhered to. 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

21 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

2.  In  response to  such  requests,  banks  may  not be  aware  of  particular  information  that  is 
stored  in  files  not  pertaining  directly  to  the  person  making  the  enquiry  e.g.  deceased 
customers’  files  containing  details  of  the  heirs,  corporate  client  files  containing  details  of 
individual shareholders and directors, etc. .  In such cases banks are not to be expected to 
include such information in their response. 
 
3. Any personal data relating to third parties and contained in the file of a customer making 
a  request  should  not  be  included  in  a  reply  to  an  access  request  unless  the  bank  has 
obtained the consent of such third party.   
 
However  in  the  case  of  a  joint  account,  all  parties  to  the  account  may  have  access  to 
information relating to transactions passed over that account, notwithstanding that some or 
all of the transactions may have been originated by another joint account holder.   
 
4.  Article  15  (1)  (h)  of  the  GDPR  requires  banks  responding  to  such  requests  to  provide 
information  about  “the  existence  of  automated  decision-making,  including  profiling,  .  .  .  . 
and,  . . ..,  meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and 
the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject”. 
 
In this regard, no specific technical details or trade secrets should be divulged by the banks, 
though the logical sequence of such processing would need to be explained. 
 
5. Banks must accede to requests by data subjects to access CCTV recordings in which they 
feature.  This  is  so  provided  that  such  access  does  prejudice  an  ongoing  criminal 
investigation.  It is also important to note that the identity of any third parties who feature 
in such recordings must be masked or blurred.  
 
 

 

 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

22 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 9: Article 16 – Right to rectification  

 

Data subjects may request controllers to rectify personal data that has not been processed 
in accordance with the GDPR, in particular because of the incomplete or inaccurate nature 
of  the data.  The  controller  shall  immediately  rectify  or  complete the data  accordingly  and 
notify any third parties to whom data had been disclosed about the measures undertaken. 
 
With  reference  to  the  time  for  compliance  in  order  to  fulfil  requests  in  relation  to  this 
right, the right to reject any such request, or the right to impose a fee, reference should be 
made to Section 15. 

 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

23 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 10: Article 17 – Right to erasure (“right to be forgotten”) 

 

The  data  subject  has  the  right  to  obtain  from  the  controller  the  erasure  of  personal  data 
concerning him or her.  The bank must comply with the request where: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

the individual has objected to the processing (other than in relation to objections to 
direct  marketing)  and  there  are  no  overriding  legitimate  grounds  to  justify  that 
processing; 
 
the personal data is no longer needed for the purpose for which it was collected or 
processed; 
 
the individual withdraws consent and there are no other grounds for the processing; 
 
the personal data is unlawfully processed; 
 
there  is  a  legal  obligation  under  Union or Member  State  law to erase the personal 
data.  
 

In all such cases, the controller must without undue delay erase the personal data processed 
both manually and by electronic means. If he had made the personal data public, he must 
take reasonable steps to inform other controllers of the request for erasure.  

 

The controller does not need to comply with such a request if the processing is necessary: 
 

 

for exercising rights of freedom of expression or information; 

 

 

 

 

for compliance with a legal obligation under Union or Member State law; 

 

in the public interest or carried out by an official authority; 

 

 

 

for public interest in the area of public health; 
 
for archiving or research; or 
 
for legal claims. 
 

 
With  reference  to  the  time  for  compliance  in  order  to  fulfil  requests  in  relation  to  this 
right, the right to reject any such request, or the right to impose a fee, reference should be 
made to Section 15. 
 
  

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

24 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 11: Article 18 – Right to restriction of processing  
 
The  data  subject  has  the  right  to  obtain  from  the  controller  restriction  of  processing.  You 
must comply with the request where: 
 

 

 

 

 

the  individual  has  objected  to  the  processing  and  you  are  considering  if  there  are 
overriding legitimate grounds that justify continued processing; 
the processing is no longer necessary but retention of the data is needed by the data 
subject to deal with legal claims; 
the  processing  is  unlawful  but  the  individual  wants  the  data  to  be  restricted  not 
erased; or 
the  accuracy  of the  personal data  is being  contested  and the  controller  is  verifying 
that data. 
 

Where data is restricted, you may only process personal data: 
 

  with consent of the data subject; 
 
 
 

for legal claims; 
for protection of the rights and freedoms of others; or 
for reasons of important public interest. 
 

The data subject shall be informed by the controller before the restriction of processing 
is lifted. 

 

Controllers need to ensure that their systems are set up to identify restricted personal data 
and to limit access to that data.  
 
With  reference  to  the  time  for  compliance  in  order  to  fulfil  requests  in  relation  to  this 
right, the right to reject any such request, or the right to impose a fee, reference should be 
made to Section 15. 
 

 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

25 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 12: Article 20 – Right to data portability  

 

Individuals  already  have  a  right  to  access  their  personal  data  through  a  subject  access 
request (see Section 8). Data portability enhances this right, giving the individual the right to 
get  that  personal  data  in  a  structured,  commonly  used  and  machine  readable  format. 
Individuals  can  also  ask  for  the  data  to  be  transferred  directly  from  one  controller  to 
another, where technically feasible (Article 20 (2)). There is no right to charge fees for this 
service. 
 
However, this right: 
 

  only  applies  where  the  controller  is  processing  personal  data  in  reliance  on  the 

processing conditions of consent or performance of a contract. 
 

  only  applies  if  the  data  processing  is  carried  out  by  automated  means  and 

therefore does not cover paper files. 

 

 

  only applies to personal data concerning data subject.  

 
You  can  only  exercise  the  right  to  data  portability  with  regard  to  personal  data. 
Therefore,  any  data,  which  is  anonymous  or  does  not  concern  the  data  subject, 
cannot  be  requested.    However,  a  data  subject  may  request  portability  of 
pseudonymous data that can be clearly linked to the data subject (e.g. by him or her 
providing the respective identifier – Article 11 (2)).  

  only applies to personal data “provided to” the controller.  

 
There  are  many  examples  of  personal  data  which  will  be  knowingly  and  actively 
“provided  by”  the  data  subject  such  as  account  data  (e.g.  mailing  address,  user 
name, age) submitted via online forms. Nevertheless, the data controller must also 
include the personal data that are generated by and collected from the activities of 
users in response to a data portability request, that is, raw data. This latter category 
of data does not include data that are exclusively generated by the data controller, 
such as a user profile created by analysis of the raw data collected.  

 
A distinction can be made between different categories of data, depending on their origin, 
to  determine  if  they  are  covered  by  the  right  to  data  portability.  The  following  categories 
can be qualified as “provided by the data subject”:  
 
- Data actively and knowingly provided by the data subject are included in the scope of the 
right to data portability (for example, mailing address, user name, age, etc.); 
  
- Observed data are “provided” by the data subject by virtue of the use of the service or 
the  device.  They  may  for  example  include  a  person’s  search  history.  It  may  also  include 
other raw data.  
 
 
In contrast, inferred data and derived data are created by the data controller on the basis of 
the data “provided by the data subject”. These personal data do not fall within the scope of 
the right to data portability. For example, a credit score is a typical example of inferred data. 
Even though such data may be part of a profile kept by a data controller and are inferred or 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

26 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

derived from the analysis of data provided by the data subject, this data will typically not be 
considered as “provided by the data subject” and thus will not be within scope of the data 
portability right.  
 
Nevertheless,  the  data  subject  can  still  exercise  his  or  her  “right  to  obtain  from  the 
controller confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning him or her are being 
processed, and, where that is the case, access to the personal data” as well as information 
about “the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 
22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic  involved, 
as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data 
subject”. (Article 15 refers).  
 
The term “provided by the data subject” must be interpreted broadly, and only to exclude 
“inferred  data”  and  “derived  data”,  which  include  personal  data  that  are  generated  by  a 
service  provider  (for  example,  algorithmic  results).  A  data  controller  can  exclude  those 
inferred  data  but  should  include  all  other  personal  data  provided  by  the  data  subject 
through technical means provided by the controller. This includes all data observed about 
the data subject during the activities for the purpose of which the data are collected, such 
as a transaction history or access log. Data collected through the tracking and recording of 
the  data  subject  (such  as  technology  used  to  track  browsing  behaviour)  should  also  be 
considered  as  “provided  by”  him  or  her,  even  if  the  data  are  not  actively  or  consciously 
transmitted.  
 
Thus,  the  terms  “provided  by”  includes  personal  data  that  relate  to  the  data  subject 
activity  or  result  from  the  observation  of  an  individual’s  behaviour  but  not  subsequent 
analysis of that behaviour. By contrast, any personal data which have been generated by 
the  data  controller  as  part  of  the  data  processing,  e.g.  by  a  personalisation  or 
recommendation process, by user categorisation or profiling are data which are derived or 
inferred from the personal data provided by the data subject, and are not covered by the 
right to data portability.   
 

  The right to data portability must not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of 

others. 

 
This  condition  intends  to  avoid  retrieval  and  transmission  of  data  containing  the  personal 
data of other (non-consenting) data subjects to a new data controller in cases where these 
data are likely to be processed in a way that would adversely affect the rights and freedoms 
of the other data subjects (Article 20(4) of the GDPR). Such an adverse effect would occur, 
for instance, if the transmission of data from one data controller to another, under the right 
to data portability, would prevent third parties from exercising their rights as data subjects 
under the GDPR (such as the rights to information, access, etc.).  
 
The  data  subject  initiating  the  transmission  of  his  or  her  data  to  another  data  controller 
either gives consent to the new data controller for processing or enters into a contract with 
them. Where personal data of third parties are included in the data set, another ground for 
lawfulness of processing must be identified. For example, a legitimate interest under Article 
6(1)(f) may be pursued by the data controller to whom the data is transmitted, in particular 
when  the  purpose  of  the  data  controller  is  to  provide  a  service  to  the  data  subject  that 
allows the latter to process personal data for a purely personal or household activity.  
 
For example, when a data subject exercises his/her right to data portability on his/her bank 
account,  such  an  account  can  contain  personal  data  relating  to  the  purchases  and 
Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

27 

 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

transactions of the account holder but also information relating to transactions, which have 
been “provided by” other individuals who have transferred money to the account holder. In 
this  context,  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  third  parties  are  unlikely  to  be  adversely 
affected in the webmail transmission or the bank account history transmission, if their data 
are used for the same purpose in each processing, i.e. as a contact address only used by the 
data  subject,  or  as  a  history  of  one  of  the  data  subject’s  bank  account.  Conversely,  their 
rights  and  freedoms  will  not  be  respected  if  the  new  data  controller  uses  the  contact 
directory for marketing purposes.  
 
Therefore, to prevent adverse effects on the third parties involved, the processing of such a 
directory  by  another  controller  is allowed only to the  extent  that the  data  are  kept  under 
the  sole  control  of  the  requesting  user  and  is  only  managed  for  purely  personal  or 
household needs. A receiving ‘new’ data controller (to whom the data can be transmitted at 
the request of the user) may not use the transmitted third party data for his own purposes 
e.g.  to  propose  marketing  products  and  services  to  those  other  data  subjects.  Otherwise, 
such processing is likely to be unlawful and unfair, especially if the third parties concerned 
are not informed and cannot exercise their rights as data subjects.  
 
To further help reduce the risks for other data subjects whose personal data may be ported, 
all data controllers (both the ‘sending’ and the ‘receiving’ parties) should implement tools to 
enable  data  subjects  to  select  the  relevant  data  and  exclude  (where  relevant)  other  data 
subjects’  data.  Additionally,  they  should  implement  consent  mechanisms  for  other  data 
subjects involved, to ease data transmission for those cases where such parties are willing 
to consent, e.g. because they as well want to move their data to some other data controller. 
Such a situation might arise with social networks.  
 
Data controllers must clearly explain the difference between the types of data that a data 
subject  can  receive  using  the  portability  right  or  the  access  right.  It  is  also  recommended 
that  data  controllers  always  include  information  about  the  right to  data  portability before 
any  account  closure.  This  allows  users  to  take  stock  of  their  personal  data,  and  to  easily 
transmit  the  data  to  their  own  device  or  to  another  provider  before  a  contract  is 
terminated.  As  a  best  practice  for  “receiving”  data,  controllers  ought  to  provide  data 
subjects  with  complete  information  about  the  nature  of  personal  data  which  are  relevant 
for  the  performance  of  their  services.  This  allows  users  to  limit  the  risks  for  third  parties, 
and  also  any  other  unnecessary  duplication  of  personal  data  even  where  no  other  data 
subjects are involved.  
 
With  reference  to  the  time  for  compliance  in  order  to  fulfil  requests  in  relation  to  this 
right, the right to reject any such request, or the right to impose a fee, reference should be 
made to Section 15. 
 
For guidance on the following questions, refer to attached Annex III to these guidelines: 
 

  How  can  the  data  controller  identify  the  data  subject  before  answering  his 

request?  

  What is the expected data format?  

  How do you deal with a large or complex personal data collection?  

 

  

 

  How can portable data be secured?  

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

28 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

  How do you help users in securing the storage of their personal data in their own 

systems?  

 
 
 

 

 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

29 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 13: Article 21 – Right to object 
 
When  the  processing  is  legitimised  on  the  basis  of  the  controller’s  legitimate  interests  or 
based on the necessity of performing a task in the public interest, the data subject has the 
right to object at any time to the processing of his/her personal data, including any profiling. 
The  controller  shall  no  longer  process  the  personal  data  unless  the  controller  can 
demonstrate  compelling  legitimate  grounds  for  such  processing  which  override  the 
interests,  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  data  subject,  or  in  order  for  the  establishment  to 
exercise or defend legal claims. 
 
 
Right to object to direct marketing 
 
The Regulation provides that individuals have the right to object to direct marketing (Article 
21 (2) and (3)). When an individual exercises this right, the bank must not only stop sending 
direct marketing material to the individual, but also stop any processing of that individual’s 
personal data for marketing purposes. For example, in the case of an objection from a data 
subject, the bank should stop profiling that individual for the purposes of direct marketing.  
 
The  e-Privacy  Directive  2002/58EC,  transposed  under  the  local  statute  by  virtue  of 
Subsidiary Legislation 440.01, contains specific obligations for direct marketing by electronic 
means, and in principle, requires the prior consent of the individual. The e-Privacy Directive 
is still applicable.  
 
With  reference  to  the  time  for  compliance  in  order  to  fulfil  requests  in  relation  to  this 
right, the right to reject any such request, or the right to impose a fee, reference should be 
made to Section 15. 
 
 
Article 21 (2) and (3) – Direct marketing 
 
Communication for direct marketing purposes by means of an automatic calling machine, a 
facsimile machine or electronic mail are regulated by Subsidiary Legislation 440.01, and are 
hereunder  referred  to  as  ‘communication  by  electronic  means’.  SMS  adverts  and  other 
forms  of  electronic  messaging  including  instant  messages  (e.g.  via  social  media  or  other 
similar platforms) are also considered as electronic mail for the purposes of such regulation. 
All  other  types  of  communications  for  direct  marketing  purposes  are  referred  to  as 
‘conventional mail’. 
 
Communication for  direct  marketing  purposes  of  third  party  products  or  services  (that  is, 
products  or  services  offered  by  a  separate  legal  entity  other  than  the  bank  itself  which  is 
conducting the advertising) via any medium whatsoever, (that is, whether via conventional 
mail,  by  electronic  means  or  printed  on  any  type  of  stationery  issued  by  banks)  always 
requires the explicit consent of the customer.  
 
1) 
 
The  processing  of  legitimately  collected  personal  data  for  direct  marketing  purposes  is 
allowed as long as the data subject does not give notice to the controller that he opposes it. 
 

Conventional Mail 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

30 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Communication by Electronic Means 

The controller is duty bound to appropriately inform the data subject of his right to oppose, 
at no cost, the processing for direct marketing purposes.  
 
The provisions of Article 13 (2) (b) of the GDPR require that information about the right to 
oppose is appropriately given by the bank to its customers.  In practice, this is normally done 
at the beginning of a relationship.   
 
If no objection has been/ is received, banks may continue to process these customers’ data 
for direct marketing purposes by conventional mail.   
 
2) 
 
Regulation  9  (1)  of  Subsidiary  Legislation  440.01  prohibits  the  use  of  an  automatic  calling 
machine, or a facsimile machine, or electronic mail to make an unsolicited communication 
to  a  subscriber  (whether  a  natural  person  or  a  legal  person)  for  the  purpose  of  direct 
marketing,  unless  that  subscriber  has  given  his  prior  consent  in  writing  to  the  receipt  of 
such a communication.   
 
However,  Regulation  9  (2)  of  Subsidiary  Legislation  440.01  allows  some  leeway  in  this 
regard, in that where a customer’s contact details for electronic mail have been obtained by 
a  bank  ‘…in  relation  to  the  sale  of  a  product  or  service’,  that  bank  may  use  such  contact 
details ‘…for direct marketing of its own similar products or services.’  But this leeway comes 
with  a  Proviso:  ‘That  customers  shall  be  given  the  opportunity  to  object  …  to  such  use  of 
electronic  contact  details  when  they  are  collected  and  on  the  occasion  of  each  message 
where the customer has not initially refused such use’. 
 
 
3) 
 
Stationery  issued  by  banks,  such  as  bank  account  statements,  ATM  receipts,  transaction 
vouchers etc. may contain general additional information about the services offered by the 
bank  or  that  of  a  third  party.  This  information  is  not  considered  equivalent  to  direct 
marketing,  provided  that  such  communication  is  general  in  nature  and  not  specifically 
tailored or targeted to a customer or group of customers based on their profile. By way of 
example,  leaflets,  circulars,  inserts,  accompanying  Bank’s  stationery,  but  which  are  sent 
indiscriminately and which are not specifically addressed to an individual, would in principle, 
fall  outside  the  scope  of  direct  marketing.  The  same  applies  to  information  or  advertising 
messages  which  are  printed  on  the  bank’s  stationery  material,  provided  that  there  is  no 
evidence to suggest that these messages are specifically targeted to the recipient.   

Marketing material with stationery issued by banks 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

31 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 14:  
 
Article 22 – Automated individual decision–making, including profiling  
 
Individuals  have  the  right  not  to  be  subject  to  decisions  based  solely  on  automated 
processing  that  produce  legal  effects  or  significantly  affect  the  individual  (Article  22). 
However, this right does not apply where the decision is: 
 

  based  on  explicit  consent  from  the  individual,  subject  to  suitable  safeguards, 

including a right for a human review of the decision; 

 

 

  necessary for a contract with the individual, subject to suitable safeguards, including 

a right for a human review of the decision; or 

  authorised by EU or national law. 

 

Additional  restrictions  apply  to  automated  decision  making  or  profiling  using  special 
categories of personal data or when carried out on children. 
 
With  reference  to  the  time  for  compliance  in  order  to  fulfil  requests  in  relation  to  this 
right, the right to reject any such request, or the right to impose a fee, reference should be 
made to Section 15. 
 
 
Article 22 – Decisions based on automated processing 
 
This  Article  applies  in  particular  to  credit  scoring.    Where  the  outcome  of  such  scoring 
results in a request for credit facilities being declined, the applicant is entitled to:  
 
1. 

Request that the decision be reconsidered other than in  a manner based solely on 
automated processing. 
Obtain  information  from  the  bank  about  what  has  controlled  the  automated 
processing that resulted in the negative decision.   
 

2. 

Such obligations would not apply in those cases where the decision is necessary for entering 
into, or the performance of, a contract between the controller and data subject, or if it is 
established by a law laying down suitable safeguards and measures to protect the subject.  
 
In any case, banks would have an obligation under Article 13 or 14, to inform data subjects 
about  the  existence  of  automated  decision-making,  by  providing  meaningful  information 
about  the  logic  involved  and  the  consequences  envisaged  for  the  data  subject.  The  bank, 
however, is not obliged to reveal specific information about the algorithm involved or the 
computations leading to a credit score. No specific technical details or trade secrets need to 
be divulged. 
 
 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

32 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 15:  
 
Other provisions relating to the rights of data subjects under Articles 15 to 22 
 
15.1: Time for compliance by the data controller in order to fulfil requests by data subjects: 
 
Article  12  (3)  provides  that  the  data  controller  must  comply  with  the  exercise  of  all  the 
captioned  rights  “without  undue  delay”  and  in any  case  “within  one  month  of  receipt  of 
the  request”  or  within  a  maximum  of  three  months  for  complex  cases,  provided  that  the 
data subject has been informed about the reasons for such delay within one month of the 
original request.  
 
Data controllers who do not take action on any request of the data subject must indicate to 
the  data  subject  “the  reasons  for  not  taking  action  and  on  the  possibility  of  lodging  a 
complaint  with  a  supervisory  authority  and  seeking  a  judicial  remedy”,  no  later  than  one 
month after receiving the request.  
 
Data controllers must respect the obligation to respond within the given terms, even if it 
concerns  a  refusal.  In  other  words,  the  data  controller  cannot  remain  silent  when  it  is 
asked to answer a request.  
 
 15.2: In which cases can a request be rejected or a fee be charged?  
 
Article 12 (5) prohibits the data controller from charging a fee for “any communication and 
any actions taken” in fulfilment of the captioned rights of the data subject, unless the data 
controller  can  demonstrate  that  the  requests  are  manifestly  unfounded  or  excessive,  “in 
particular because of their repetitive character”. In the latter case, the controller can refuse 
to  act  on  the  request  but  bears  the  burden  of  proving  the  manifestly  unfounded  or 
excessive character of the request. 
 
The  overall  cost  of  the  processes  to  answer  requests,  such  as  data  portability  requests, 
should not be taken into account to determine the excessiveness of a request.  The overall 
system implementation costs should neither be charged to the data subjects, nor be used to 
justify a refusal to answer requests.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

33 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 16: Article 25 – Data protection by design and by default  
 
The  Regulation  makes  specific  provisions  on  the  use  of  technical  and  organisational 
measures  tailored  to  enhance  the  level  of  data  protection  compliance.  When  deploying 
systems,  applications,  products or  services that  rely  on the processing  of  personal  data to 
fulfil  their  tasks,  banks  should  take  into  account  the  right  to  data  protection  and  should 
encourage  their  IT  department  or  IT  service  providers,  including  developers,  to  design 
products  or  services  that  contain  technical  measures  which  are  data  protection  friendly, 
embedded in the design.  

 

Such measures could consist inter alia of: 
 

  Facilitating data controllers in creating and improving security measures; 
  Data minimisation and pseudonymisation; 
  Transparency both in relation to processing and the functions within an organisation; 
  Default  settings  which  limit  the  processing  of  personal  data  to  what  is  strictly 

necessary; 

  Features  enabling  data  subjects  to  have  more  control  on  their  personal  data 

including its access and further usage; 

  Measures protecting data subjects’ rights; 
  Strong access controls including audit trails and flagging systems;  
  Data segregation mechanisms; 
  Automated  deletion  or  anonymisation  of  personal  data  upon  expiry  of  the  storage 

period. 

 
Similar  measures  shall  be  taken  into  consideration  when  issuing  tenders  for  such  services 
and in any case, well before the product design.  

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

34 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 17: Article 28 – Processor (Outsourcing) 

 

The  GDPR  impacts  on  all  aspects  of  the  processing  relationship,  from  how  to  choose  a 
processor, to what to include in the processing contract and how data is dealt with at the 
end  of  that  arrangement.  It  also  impacts  heavily  on  the  risks  associated  with  processing 
personal data for both controllers and processors, which in turn affects the contractual risk 
allocation between those parties.  
 
Choosing a processor  
 
Under  the  GDPR  controllers  can  only  use  processors  “providing  sufficient  guarantees  to 
implement appropriate technical and organisational measures so that the processing meets 
the requirements of GDPR and ensures the protection of the rights of data subjects.”  
 
This is much broader than the current requirements and means that controllers must carry 
out a broader due diligence exercise when selecting a processor. Controllers may therefore 
consider  whether  it  is  necessary,  or  good  practice,  to  carry  out  a  data  protection  impact 
assessment (DPIA) before entering into a major new processing arrangement. 
 
Negotiating a processor contract 
 
The  GDPR  requires  that  whenever  processing  is  carried  out  on  behalf  of  a  controller  by  a 
third party, such parties must enter into a written agreement (including in electronic form). 
The said agreement must clearly abide by the below requirements: 
 

Article 
28 (3) 

28(3) (a) 

28 (3) (b) 

28 (3) (c) 

28 (3) (d) 

28 (3) (e) 

28 (3) (f) 

28 (3) (g) 

Requirement 

Processing by a processor must be governed by a contract that is binding on the 
processor  with  regard  to  the  controller  and  that  sets  out  the  subject-matter 
and duration of the processing, the nature and purpose of the processing, the 
type of personal data, categories of individuals whose data is being processed 
and the obligations and rights of the controller. The contract must stipulate, in 
particular, that the processor will: 
process only on documented instructions, including with regard to transfers of 
personal  data  to  a  third  country  or  to  an  international  organisation  (unless, 
subject to certain restrictions, legally required to transfer to a third country or 
international organisation); 
ensure  those  processing  personal  data  are  under  a  confidentiality  obligation 
(contractual or statutory); 
take  all  measures  required  under  the  security  provisions  (Article  32)  which 
includes pseudonymising and encrypting personal data as appropriate; 
only  use  a  sub-processor  with  the  controller’s  consent  (specific  or  general, 
although where general consent is obtained processors must notify changes to 
controllers, giving them an opportunity to object); 
 
flow down the same contractual obligations to sub-processors; 
assist the controller in responding to requests from individuals (data subjects) 
exercising their rights; 
assist  the  controller  in  complying  with  the  obligations  relating  to  security, 
breach notification, DPIAs and consulting with supervisory authorities (Articles 
32-36); 
delete or return (at the controller’s choice) all personal data at the end of the 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

35 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

agreement (unless storage is required by EU/member state law); 

28 (3) (h)  make  available  to  the  controller  all  information  necessary  to  demonstrate 
compliance; allow/contribute to audits (including inspections); and inform the 
controller if its instructions infringe data protection law. 

 
 
It  is  important to note that  while  processors  have  some  direct obligations,  controllers  still 
have  more  extensive  liability  than  processors  under  the  GDPR.  They  remain  liable  for  all 
damage caused by processing which infringes the GDPR, whereas processors are only liable 
under  the  GDPR  when  they  breach  processor  specific  provisions  or  act  outside  the 
controller’s instructions. Controllers are often reliant on processors to enable them to fulfil 
their  legal  obligations.  Despite  the  detailed  nature  of  Article  28(3),  there  are  instances  
where banks, as controllers, may want to go beyond the GDPR’s contractual requirements . 
For example, in relation to breach notification, controllers have an obligation to notify their 
supervisory authority of a data breach without undue delay and, where feasible, within 72 
hours from the moment that they become aware of such breach. However, processors only 
have  a  duty  to  notify  their  controllers  ‘without  undue  delay’.  In  this  regard,  controllers 
should consider including specific terms in their contractual agreement with the processor, 
requiring them to notify the breach promptly and within an established timeframe, such as 
24hrs.  
In  terms  of  Article  28  (7)  and  (8),  both  the  European  Commission  and  the  supervisory 
authority may lay down standard contractual clauses for the matters alluded to above. 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

36 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 
SECTION 18: Article 30 – Records of processing activities 
 
Banks  are  no  longer  obliged  to  notify  data  processing  activities  to  the  Data  Protection 
Commissioner.  However,  in  view  of  the  processing  activities  concerning  regular  and 
systematic monitoring of data subjects which are deemed to involve risks on the rights and 
freedoms of individuals, and also taking into account the processing of special categories of 
personal  data,  criminal  convictions  and  offences,  banks  are  subject  to  the  record-keeping 
obligations emanating from Article 30.    
 
Controllers: 
 
If you act as a controller, you must keep a record of the following information: 
 

  your  name  and  contact  details  and,  where  applicable,  any  joint  controllers, 

representatives and data protection officers; 

 

 

 

 

 

the purposes of the processing; 
 

  a  description  of  the  categories  of  data  subjects  and  of  the  categories  of  personal 

data; 
 
the  categories  of  recipients,  including  recipients  in  third  countries  or  international 
organisations; 

 

  details of transfers of personal data to third countries (where applicable); 

 

retention periods for different categories of personal data (where possible); and 

  a general description of the security measures employed (where possible). 

 
Processor 
 
If you act as a data processor, you must keep the following records: 
 

  your  name  and  contact  details  and,  where  applicable,  representatives  and  data 

protection officers; 

 

the  name  and  contact  details  of  each  controller  you  act  for  including,  where 
applicable, representatives and data protection officers; 

 

the categories of processing carried out on behalf of each controller; 

  details of transfers of personal data to third countries (where applicable); 

 

  a general description of the security measures employed (where possible). 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

37 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Data protection impact assessment 
 
The Regulation makes a privacy impact assessment mandatory for any new project that is 
likely to create “high risks” for individuals. The process for carrying out this assessment is set 
out below: activity 
 

 

Is the processing likely to be “high risk”?  

 
High risk processing includes: 
 

  systematic and extensive profiling that produces legal effects or significantly affects 

individuals; 

 

  processing special categories of personal data on a large scale; and 

 

  systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on a large scale (e.g. CCTV). 

 
The supervisory authority may identify other processing as being “high risk”. 
 
If yes, you must carry out an assessment. Your data protection impact assessment must be 
documented and must contain the following information: 
 

  a  description  of  the  processing,  including  its  purposes  and  any  legitimate  interests 

pursued by the controller; 

 

  an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing; 

 

  an assessment of the risks to individuals; and 

 
the measures taken to address those risks. 

 

 
You  must  seek  advice  from  your  data  protection  officer  and  may  have  to  consult  with 
affected individuals or their representatives 
 

 

Is  the processing  still  “high  risk”? Does the  assessment  indicate  your processing  is 
high risk in spite of measures taken to mitigate that risk? 

 
If yes, you must consult your supervisory authority. The supervisory authority will consider 
if your processing is compatible with the Regulation. 
 
The supervisory authority should respond within eight weeks, but can extend this period by 
a further six weeks if extra time is needed due to the complexity of the processing. These 
time periods are suspended during periods in which the supervisory authority is waiting for 
further information from the banks. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

38 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 19: Article 32 – Security of processing 
 
The Regulation requires banks to keep personal data secure. They are to take appropriate 
technical  and  organisational  measures  to  protect  their  systems.  This  broad  obligation  is 
supplemented  by  additional  obligations  to  take  the  following  steps,  where  appropriate 
(Article 32):  
 

 

the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data; 

 

 

 

the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience 
of its information technology systems; 
 
the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely manner 
in the event of a physical or technical incident; and 
 

  a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical 

and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the processing. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

39 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 
SECTION 20: 
 
Article  33  –  Notification  of  a  personal  data  breach  to  the  supervisory 
authority 
 
Article 34 – Communication of a personal data breach to the data subject 
 
In  terms  of  Articles  33  and  34  of  the  Regulation,  controllers  are  obliged  to  notify  the 
supervisory authority and, in some cases, individuals, of personal data breaches unless the 
personal  data  breach  is  unlikely  to  result  in  a  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural 
persons. 
 
The Article 29 Working Party issued guidelines on Personal Data Breach Notification, which 
were adopted in October 2017 and revised on 6th February 2018.  
 
A  personal  data  breach  is  a  breach  of  security  leading  to  the  accidental  or  unlawful 
destruction,  loss,  alteration,  unauthorised  disclosure  of,  or  access  to,  personal  data.  It  is 
potentially very broad. It is not limited to loss of data and extends to unauthorised access or 
alteration. However, it only captures actual breaches and not suspected breaches. 
 
Where a personal data breach occurs as a result of cross-border data processing, or where it 
will substantially affect data subjects in more than one EU jurisdiction, this will lead to the 
use of the one-stop-shop mechanism, as contemplated under Article 60 of the GDPR. This is 
relevant in the case of banks having multiple establishments across the EU. 
 
Is the breach a “risk”? 
 
You must consider if the personal data breach is likely to be a risk to individuals. There is a 
“risk” to individuals if processing could lead to physical, material or non-material damage. 
This includes profiling or processing that could lead to discrimination, identity theft, damage 
to  reputation  or  reversal  of  pseudonymisation.  It  includes  any  processing  of  special 
categories  of  personal  data  or  personal  data  of  children  or  other  vulnerable  persons  or 
processing that involves large amounts of personal data. 
 
If NO, notification is not required. However, you must document the personal data breach. 
 
If YES, you must notify the supervisory authority without undue delay and, where feasible, 
within  72  hours  from  when  you  become  aware  of  the  breach.  That  notification  should 
contain  specified  details  of  the  breach.  If  you  cannot  provide  all  of  those  details 
immediately,  you  can  provide  them  in  stages.  In  order  to  facilitate  such  notification,  the 
Information  and  Data  Protection  Commissioner  will  make  available  a  specific  form  on  the 
website www.idpc.org.mt.   
 
Is the breach “high risk”? 
 
You must consider if the breach is a high risk for individuals. The breach will not be high risk 
if the data is encrypted or other protective measures are in place. 
 
If NO, no further notification is required. The process is at an end. 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

40 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

If YES, you must inform the affected individuals. You must provide affected individuals with 
details of the personal data breach without undue delay (though there is no fixed deadline). 
If informing the affected individuals directly would involve disproportionate effort, you may 
be able to use an alternative means of public communication, e.g. newspaper adverts. 
 
You  must  keep  a  record  of  all  security  breaches,  regardless  of  whether  they  need  to  be 
notified to the supervisory authority. 
 
In view of the above, banks need to: of t 
 

  Consider setting up a central breach management unit to collate, review and notify 

breaches, where appropriate. 

 

  Review  and  update  their  security  measures  in  light  of  the  increased  security 

obligations in the Regulation. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

41 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 
SECTION 21: Article 35 – Data protection impact assessment  
 
Article 35 – Data Protection Impact Assessment  

 

The  GDPR  imposes  a  legal  obligation  on  banks  to  conduct  a  data  protection  impact 
assessment for any processing that is likely to create “high risks” for customers (see Section 
18).  Bank  activities  which  can  be  considered  to  involve  high  risk  processing,  include 
conducting due diligence and especially enhanced due diligence in relation to any potential 
or  existing  customer  as  well  as  profiling  of  clients.  Profiling  activities  which  may  lead  to 
decisions  including  those  by  automated  means,  which  have  significant  effects  on  data 
subjects,  such  as  for  example  credit  scoring, are considered  to  create  high  risk  and  would 
require an impact assessment. 
 
 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

42 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 22: Article 37 – Designation of the data protection officer 
 
In  terms  of  Article  37  (1)  (b)  of  the  Regulation,  banks  are  obliged  to  appoint  a  data 
protection officer. 
 
The role of the data protection officer 
 
The  data  protection  officer  is  responsible  for  monitoring  compliance  with  the  Regulation, 
providing  information  and  advice,  and  liaising  with  the  supervisory  authority.    The  data 
protection officer: 
 

  must report to the highest level of management within your business; 

 

 

 

  must  be  able  to  operate  independently  and  not  be  dismissed  or  penalised  for 

performing his/her tasks; but 

  can have other roles so long as they do not give rise to a conflict of interests (i.e. this 

does not have to be a full-time role). 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

43 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 23: 
 
Article 46 – Transfers subject to appropriate safeguards 
 
Article 49 – Derogations for specific situations 

 

A  transfer  of  personal  data  to  a  third  country  or  an  international  organisation  may  take 
place where the European Commission has decided that the third country or one or more 
specified  sectors  within  that  third  country,  or  the  international  organisation  in  question, 
ensures  an  adequate  level  of  protection.  Such  a  transfer  shall  not  require  any  specific 
authorisation.  
 
Otherwise,  the  GDPR  prohibits  the  transfer  of  personal  data  outside  the  Union,  unless 
certain conditions are met by the controller or processor. The safeguards which must be in 
place are any of the following: 
 

  A legally binding and enforceable instrument between public authorities or bodies; 
  Binding corporate rules approved by the competent supervisory authority; 
  Standard data protection clauses adopted by either the European Commission or by 

a supervisory authority and approved by the Commission; 

  An approved code of conduct together with binding and enforceable commitments 
of  the  controller  or  processor  in  the  third  country  to  apply  the  appropriate 
safeguards as regards data subjects’ rights; 

  An  approved  certification  mechanism  together  with  binding  and  enforceable 
commitments  of  the  controller  or  processor  in  the  third  country  to  apply  the 
appropriate safeguards as regards data subjects’ rights; 
 Contractual  clauses  between  the  controller  or  processor  and  the  controller, 
processor or the recipient of the personal data in the third country authorised by the 
competent supervisory authority; 

 

  Provisions  to  be 

inserted 

into  administrative  arrangements  between  public 
authorities or bodies which include enforceable and effective data subject rights and 
authorised by the competent authority. 
 
 

Therefore, in line with the above: 
 
i. 
It will be possible to transfer personal data to a person outside the Union where the 
importer and exporter enter into the so-called Model Contracts. It is possible to enter into 
multiparty  Model  Contracts,  commonly  known  as  intra-group  agreements.  The  existing 
controller-controller  and  controller-processor  Model  Contracts  will  be  grandfathered. 
Where  standard  clauses  approved  by  the  Commission  are  used,  authorisation  from  a 
supervisory authority will no longer be required.  
 
ii. 
Codes of Conduct or obtained suitable Certification. 
 
iii. 

Transfers  to  third  countries  are  possible  if  the  importer  has  signed  up  to  suitable 

Binding corporate rules (BCRs) are a set of binding obligations under which a group 
of undertakings commit to process personal data in accordance with the Regulation. 
BCRs have been put on a statutory footing and will be available to both controllers 
and processors. 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

44 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Banks  could  therefore  consider  implementing  a  “structural”  transfer  solution  (such  as 
binding  corporate  rules  or  an  intra-group  agreement)  as  these  provide  a  general 
justification for your transfers. 
 
In the case of transfer authorisations issued by the Commissioner on the basis of adequate 
safeguards  (e.g.  model  clauses)  prior  to  the  GDPR,  such  transfers  shall  remain  valid  until 
amended, replaced or repealed, as may be necessary by the Commissioner.  
 
The  GDPR  makes  provisions  for  a  number  of  specific  situations  where  a  transfer  can  take 
place  even  in  the  absence  of  the  safeguards  discussed  above  (Article  49  (1)).  The  below 
however, shall be narrowly interpreted and used in exceptional circumstances.  
 

 
 

there is the explicit consent of the data subject; 
the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract with the individual or in 
the 

              individual’s interest; 

  necessary  for  important  reasons  of  public  interest.  That  public  interest  must  be 

recognised under Union or Member State law; 

  necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims; 
  necessary for the vital interests of an individual where the individual is unable to give 

consent; or 

  the transfer is made from a public register. 

 
The  GDPR  also  introduces  a  new  exemption  for  minor  transfers  which  is  only  available  in 
limited situations. It was intended to legitimise one-off or occasional transfers of personal 
data,  for  example  where  employees  take  their  laptop  with  them  on  holiday  or  email  a 
person  who  happens  to  be  outside  the  Union.  The  requirements  to  invoke  the  minor 
transfer exemption are the following:  
 

  No other justification could be used 
  The transfer is not repetitive 
  Only limited data subjects are affected 
  Supervisory authority and data subjects are informed of the transfer 
  The risks have been assessed and safeguards applied 
  There is a compelling interest not overridden by the individuals’ interests 

 

Articles 44 to 50 – Transfer of data to a third country / Exemptions from the prohibition 

of the transfer of data to a third country 

 
In so far as cross-border credit transfers via SWIFT are concerned, it is to be clarified that 
such transfers are effected upon the application of the ordering customer who, by signing 
the transfer order, is also implicitly giving his consent to the transfer of the personal data 
contained  in  the  transfer  order  to  the  jurisdiction  where  recipient  of  such  transfer  is 
located.  However,  banks  are  to  inform  their  customers  that  pursuant  to  an  Agreement 
between  the  European  Union  and  the  United  States  of  America  on  the  processing  and 
transfer  of  Financial  Messaging  Data  for  purposes  of  the  Terrorist  Finance  Tracking 
Program  (TFTP),  their  personal  data  could  be  disclosed  to  the  U.  S.  authorities.  MBA 
members have agreed to use the following wording in order to notify bank customers: 
 
“Personal  data  in  relation  to  transactions  effected  via  SWIFT  (Society  for  Worldwide 
Interbank  Financial  Telecommunication)  may  be  required  to  be  disclosed  to  the  United 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

45 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

States  authorities  in  order  to  comply  with  legal  requirements  applicable  in  the  United 
States  for  the  prevention  of  crime  and  in  accordance  with  the  EU-US  Terrorist  Finance 
Tracking Program (TFTP) agreement”. 
 
Other bank activities which often require the transfer of data to third countries and hence 
need  to  comply  with  the  legal  requirements  set  out  in  this  Section,  include  offshoring 
activities  which  may  be  intra-group  initiatives  or  may  involve  the  use  of  a  third  party 
service provider such as, for example, the use of cloud services.  
 
In the absence of a decision by the EU Commission recognising the third country to which a 
transfer  is  envisaged  as  adequate  in  terms  of  the  data  protection  regime,  banks  would 
need  to  ensure  that  the  transfers  are  subject  to  adequate  safeguards  and  guarantees 
which  are  essentially  equivalent  to  those  afforded  by  EU  law.  In  this  regard,  adequacy 
instruments  which  are  recognised  by  the  EU  Commission  for  such  purposes  (e.g.  EU 
Standard Contractual Clauses or Binding Corporate Rules), shall be considered depending 
on their suitability for the type and nature of transfer. 

 
 
 

 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

46 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

SECTION 24: Article 48 – Transfers or disclosures not authorised by Union law   
 
In terms of Article 48: 
 
“Any  judgment  of  a  court  or  tribunal  and  any  decision  of  an  administrative  authority  of  a 
third  country  requiring  a  controller  or  processor  to  transfer  or  disclose  personal  data  may 
only  be  recognised  or  enforceable  in  any  manner  if  based  on  an  international  agreement, 
such as a mutual legal assistance treaty, in force between the requesting third country and 
the Union or a Member State, without prejudice to other grounds for transfer...” 
 
As  such,  banks  should  respond  to  such  requests  only  if  they  are  routed  through  the 
competent national authority. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

47 

 
 
 

 

                     
 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Annex I 

 

Archival Material Retention Periods  

 
 
Preamble:  This document reflects, inter alia, the requirements of: 
 

  Regulations  4(11)  and  4(13)  of  the  Cooperation  with  Other  Jurisdictions  on  Tax 

Matters Regulations (S.L.123.127). 

  Article 163 of the Companies Act, Cap. 386. 
  Article 19 of the Income Tax Management Act, Cap. 372. 
  Regulation  13  of  the  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  and  Funding  of  Terrorism 

Regulations (S.L.373.01) 

  Conduct of Business Rulebook Phase II 

 
A copy of each of these enactments is attached to this document for easier reference. 
 
1.  Scope: 
 

The  scope  of this document  is  to  set  out  industry  standards  to  be  adopted  by member 
banks  regarding  the  retention  periods  to  be  applied  by  them  in  relation  to  all 
documentation / material which is sent for archiving. 
 
To  this  end,  the  document  outlines  the  respective  retention  periods  applicable  to  the 
various categories of documents which  are sent for archiving, the “trigger date” for the 
start of such retention periods, and the form (original / scanned / electronic) in which the 
various documents should be retained for archiving purposes. 

 
2.  Definitions: 

 
2.1.   Account  data  is  defined  as  electronic  data  which  relates  to  all  aspects  of  an 
account,  excluding  transaction  data.    It  is  often  referred  to  as  static  data  since, 
unlike  transaction data, it  does  not  change that often.    Examples  of  account  data 
include a customer’s Final Withholding Tax instructions, opening of account details, 
mailing  addresses,  and  residence  status.    Account  data  would  typically  consist  of 
alphanumeric characters. 

 
2.2.  Account information is similar to account data, but it can either take the form of a 
paper record, or alternatively, it can be a full scan of the document concerned.  The 
difference between account data and account information is that the latter would 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

48 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

typically not be limited to alphanumeric inputs, but would include also signatures 
as  well  as  pre-printed  clauses.    An  opening  of  account  form,  be  it  original  or 
scanned,  would  typically  qualify  as  being  account  information.    By  contrast,  the 
details  of  that  form,  as  captured  through  a  keyboard  or  similar  device,  would  be 
called account data.  

 
2.3. Transaction data is defined as electronic data which relates to the various debit or 
credit transactions that would pass through the account over the years.  Examples 
of transaction data include the amount, details of payment, etc.  Transaction data 
would  typically  consist  of  alphanumeric  characters,  and  may  cover  all  type  of 
accounts, be they customer accounts or general ledger accounts. 

 
2.4.  Transaction  information  is  similar  to  transaction  data,  but  transaction  information 
would  typically  reside  on  paper  or  is  scanned.    Compared  with  transaction  data, 
transaction information would typically include the customer’s signature as well as 
pre-printed  clauses.    A  cheque  or  a  voucher,  be  it  original  or  scanned,  would 
typically  qualify  as  being  transaction  information.    By  contrast,  the  alphanumeric 
details  of  that  cheque,  as  captured  through  an  electronic  device  such  as  a 
keyboard, would then be called transaction data. 

 
3.  General points: 

 
3.1.  Each member bank is to adhere to the time period stipulated in this agreement. 
 
3.2.  Each  member  bank  has  the  option  to  archive  documents  in  paper  and/or  in 
scanned  format,  provided  that  the  scan  covers  all  the  required  information, 
including  signatures  and  pre-printed  clauses.    There  are  four  exceptions  to  this 
clause, namely: 

 

3.2.1.  ...cheques  and  other  documents  containing  customers’  signatures.  Such 
documents must be held in their original paper format for a period of one 
year from date of presentation / creation of the document. 

 
3.2.2. ...where the bank obtains documents certified by third parties (i.e. not being 
officers or employees of the subject person) in fulfilment of their obligations 
under  the  Implementing  Procedures  issued  by  the  Financial  Intelligence 
Analysis  Unit.  In  such  cases,  banks  should  retain  on  file  the  physical 
document certified by the third party and not a copy thereof (Section 5.4 of 
the Implementing Procedures). 

 
3.2.3.  ...obsolete  collateral  (security)  documents.  Such  documents  should  be 
retained in their original format, except where the bank is obliged to return 
the  original  document  (e.g.  guarantees  issued  in  favour  of  the  bank  by 
another bank). 

 
3.2.4. ...obsolete Powers of Attorney. Such documents should be retained in their 

original format. 

 
3.3.  The  start  date  for  the  retention  period  shall  vary  from  one  case  to  another,  as 

explained in section five of this document. 

 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

49 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

4. The various categories of retention periods: 

 
4.1.   All documentation which the bank is required to keep in terms of Article 163 of the 
Companies  Act  and  /  or  Article  19  of  the  Income  Tax  Management  Act,  must  be 
retained  for  a  period  of  ten  years,  starting  from  the  end  of  the  relative  financial 
year.  This typically includes all the documentation which relates to the day-to-day 
administration  of  the  bank,  such  as  payroll,  purchases,  utility  bills,  travelling 
expenses,  capital  expenditure,  etc.    This  provision  also  includes  a  requirement  to 
hold, for ten years, a full set of audited accounts, supported by all relevant working 
papers  and  computer  generated  reports  detailing  interest  paid  and  received, 
exchange  revaluation  workings,  etc.    Such  information  may  be  retained  in  paper 
and / or in scanned or electronic formats.   

 
4.2.  All transaction data (see definition) is to be retained for a period of ten years from 

the date of the transaction. 

 
4.3.   All account data (see definition) is to be retained for a period of ten years from the 

date of closure of the respective account. 

 
4.4. 

In  so  far  as  the  retention  of  records  which  pertain  to  the  following  categories, 
Member Banks shall distinguish between the different categories as follows: 

          
4.4.1  Telephone recordings 

 
The retention period for telephone recordings varies depending on the purpose 
for processing such recordings. 
 

(i)  Telephone recordings which are the only proof of a debit authority or of a contract 
including those telephone conversations relating to transactions concluded when dealing 
on own account, and the provision of client order services that relate to the reception, 
transmission  and  execution  of  client  orders,  will  be  retained  for  a  period  of  ten  years 
from date of recording. 
 
(ii)  In all other cases, telephone recordings ought not to be kept for a period longer than 
thirty days. 
 
(iii)  Banks can exercise their own discretion in so far as telephone recordings which are 
used  for  training  purposes  are  concerned,  provided  that  the  recordings  are  edited  to 
ensure  that  no  personal  data  is  revealed  and  the  identity  of  the  caller  and  as  much  as 
possible the voice of the same caller are rendered non-identifiable. 

 
 
4.4.2 

 Video recordings 
 
Video recordings should not be retained for a period longer than necessary. 
 

(i) 
In  so  far  as  customer-facing  footage  is  concerned,  such  period  shall  not  be  longer 
than  30  days,  provided  that  where  specific  footage  is  used  in  connection  with  an 
investigation,  a  copy  of  the  relevant  extract  from  the  recordings  may  be  retained  as 
evidence until the case is concluded. 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

50 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

(ii)  Back-office  operations  footage  does  not  as  a  rule  capture  the  faces  of  the 
employees,  but  only  their  hands  and  the  cash  handling  process.  In  such  cases,  the 
footage  of  back-office  operations  can  be  kept  for  a  period  which  is  not  longer  than  90 
days.  

 
 

4.4.3  Staff records 

 

financial 

(e.g.  employment  contract,  payroll  and  other 

Staff records shall also be subject to pre-defined retention periods, based on the purpose 
of processing and subject to operational and legal requirements applicable to such data. 
In  this  regard,  banks  shall  distinguish  between  personal  data  which  relates  to  records 
being  renewed  periodically  (e.g.  attendance,  vacation  leave,  sick  leave  records)  and 
which therefore may be substituted by or updated with new records on an annual basis, 
and other information which will be necessary for the entire duration of the employment 
relationship 
records, 
qualifications, training, performance records and appraisals).  
 
In the case of attendance, sick leave and vacation leave records, banks should determine 
internal practices as to the period within which any concerns or disputes may be raised 
internally on such matters, unless there are additional time frames stipulated by law. In 
these  instances,  and  unless  specific  disputes  arise,  a  maximum  retention  period  of  one 
year is deemed sufficient.  
 
With regards to other staff records which are deemed necessary throughout the entirety 
of  the  employment  relationship,  retention  periods  shall  be  established  from  the  date 
when the employment contract is terminated. Financial records are subject to obligations 
emanating  from  the  Income  Tax  Act,  and  therefore  shall  be  retained  for  ten  years 
following  termination  of  employment.  In  the  case  of  other  employment  records,  banks 
shall  take  into  consideration possible  legal  action  or  claims  for  damages  that  may  arise 
after  termination  of  employment  (e.g.  unfair  dismissal,  bullying,  sexual  harassment, 
occupational  health  and  safety,  injury  at  work).  Taking  into  account  the  possible  legal 
prescriptive  periods,  a  maximum  retention  period  of  five  years  after  termination  is 
deemed sufficient. 
 
The abovementioned retention periods are without prejudice and may be superseded by 
general guidelines or code of ethics issued in the field of HR and employment, as may be 
approved from time to time by the Commissioner.  
 

 

4.4.5  Internal  documentation  such  as  circulars,  obsolete  handbook  procedures  and 
documentation and communication records as exchanged with third parties other than 
with customers (such as with suppliers) 

The retention period for these categories, provided that there is no personal data, is left 
at the discretion of the bank.  
 

 
 

4.5. Deceased customers’ files are to be retained for a period of ten years from when the 

account balance was fully distributed to the heirs.  

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

51 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 
5.  The “trigger date” for the start of the retention period: 

 
5.1.   The  “trigger  date”  for  transaction  data,  account  data,  deceased  customers’  files, 
and for other requirements as stipulated by the Companies Act and / or by article 
19 of the Income Tax Management Act, have all been explained under section four 
above. 

 
5.2.   Transaction information (see definition) is typically held in paper format or as a full 
scan.  Such records are to be held for a period of six years from date of transaction.  
Banks  usually  refer  to  this  as  the  “daily  waste”.    After  six  years,  the  bank  may 
therefore  destroy  such  paper  records  or  scanned  images.  In  so  doing,  the  bank 
would then be relying on the corresponding transaction data (see definition) for a 
further  four  years,  since  transaction  data  must  be  retained  for  ten  years  (see 
paragraph 4.2 above). 

 
5.3.   Account  information  (see  definition),  is  typically  held  in  paper  format  or  as  a  full 
scan.    Such  information  is  to  be  retained  for  a  period  of  six  years  from  the  date 
when the account is closed.  After six years, the bank may therefore destroy such 
paper records or scanned images. In so doing,  the bank would then be relying on 
the  corresponding  account  data  (see  definition)  for  a  further  four  years,  since 
account data must be retained for ten years (see paragraph 4.3 above). 

 
 5.4. Obsolete collateral (security) items must be retained for a period of six years from 

the date when the item was discharged.    

    
 5.5.  Advances  files  must  be  retained  for  a  period  of  six  years,  which  shall  start  to  run 
from  the  date  when  the  respective  facility  has  been  closed  (unless 
legal 
proceedings in respect of such repaid facilities are  instituted during this period, in 
which  case  the  relative  files  should  be  retained  beyond  six  years  until  the 
conclusion of the legal proceedings). 

  Member banks, however, have no obligation to retain “old” advances files for more 
than  thirty  years  after  they  were  archived,  even  though  credit  facilities  to  the 
customer concerned have been ongoing.   

  This thirty year limit shall not apply to home loans, where the file must be retained 
for a period of six years from date of closure. Thus a file for a forty year home loan 
must be retained in its entirety for the full duration of the loan, plus a further six 
years. 

 

“Classified Debt” files are to be treated in the same way as other advances files. If 
and  when  the  debt  is  fully  repaid,  or  a  compromise  is  reached  with  the  debtor 
whereby a lesser amount is accepted by the bank in full and final settlement of the 
debt, the file is to be retained for a period of six years from the date when the debt 
has  been  fully  repaid,  or  the  agreed  settlement  amount  has  been  received. 
Otherwise, where the debt remains outstanding (irrespective of whether or not the 
debt has been written down / off in the bank’s books), the file is to be retained for 
at least thirty years after it was archived. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

52 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

5.6.  Fact  finds  /  Know  Your  Customer  (KYC)  records  or  similar  investment-related 
reviews, portfolio management instructions, statements of compliance, etc. are to 
be  retained  for  six  years.    The  six  years  shall  start  to  run  after  the  end  of  the 
investment relationship. 

 
 

  Other  documentation  relating  to  the  sale  of  investment  to  customers  is  to  be 
retained for a period of six years from the date when the sale was concluded. In the 
case of documentation relating to life insurance products, such documentation is to 
be retained for the lifetime of the insured customer from the date when the sale 
was concluded and a period of six years thereafter. 

 
 
 5.7.  The  documentation  which  relates  to  all  contracts,  other  than  those  mentioned 
elsewhere in this section, is to be retained for a period of six years which shall start 
to  run  from  the  date  when  such  a  contract  is  terminated  or  paid  off  or  expired. 
Examples under this category include safe deposit lockers, guarantees issued by the 
bank, and letters of credit.   

 
APPENDICES 
 
A.  Abridged version of the Archival Material Retention Period Document 
 
B.  Regulations 4(11) and 4(13) of the Cooperation with Other Jurisdictions on Tax Matters 

Regulations (S.L. 123.127). 

 

C.  Article 163 of the Companies Act, Cap. 386. 
 
D.  Article 19 of the Income Tax Management Act, Cap. 372. 
 
E.  Regulation  13  of  the  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  and  Funding  of  Terrorism 

Regulations (S.L. 373.01) 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

53 

 
 
 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Appendix I: Summary of Retention Periods 

 

Paragraph 

 

Archival Material 

4.1 

4.2 

4.3 

Documentation  to  be  kept  in  terms  of 
Article 163 of the Companies Act/ Article 
19 of the Income Tax Management Act. 
Transaction Data (See 2.3) 
 
Account Data (See 2.1) 

4.4.1 

Telephone Recordings 

4.4.2 

Video Recordings 

4.4.4 

Staff Records: 
- Periodically 

reviewed 

records 

(e.g. 

attendance, vacation leave, sick leave) 
 

- Records  kept  for  the  entire  duration  of 

the employment relationship: 
- Payroll and other financial records 
 
- Other employment records 
Internal Documentation 

4.4.5 

4.5 

Deceased Customers’ Files 

5.2 

5.3 

5.4 

5.5 

Transaction Information (See 2.4) 
 
Account Information (See 2.2) 

Obsolete Collateral (Security) Item 

Advances  Files 
Debt” files) 

(Including  “Classified 

 

Retention Periods 

 

10  years,  starting  from  the  end  of  the 
relative financial year. 

the 

from 

the  date  of 

10  years 
transaction. 
10 years from the date of closure of the 
account. 
-  10 years from the date of recording if 
this  is  the  only  proof  of  a  debit 
authority or of a contract. 

-  Otherwise, maximum 30 days, but 
- 

If  recordings  are  used  for  training 
is  at 
purposes,  retention  period 
bank’s 
provided 
recordings  are  suitably  edited  (see 
4.4.1 (iii)). 

discretion, 

-  Maximum  30  days  for  customer-
is 
in  connection  with  an 

facing  footage  (unless  footage 
required 
ongoing investigation). 

-  Maximum  90  days  for  back-office 

operations footage. 

 
- 1  year  is  deemed  sufficient,  unless 

specific disputes arise. 

 
- 10  years 

following  termination  of 

employment. 

 
- Maximum 

5 

years 

following 

termination of employment. 

At  bank’s  discretion,  provided  no 
personal  data  which  is  not  public  is 
contained therein. 
10 years from when the account balance 
was fully distributed to the heirs. 
 
6 years from date of transaction. 

6 years from the date when the account 
is closed.  
6 years from the date when the item was 
discharged. 
6  years  from  the  date  when  the  facility 
has 
legal 
proceedings are in train). 

(unless 

closed 

been 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

54 

 
 
 

5.6 

5.7 

5.8 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Note:  “Old”  advances  files,  other  than 
files relating to home loans, need not be 
retained for more than 30 years, even if 
facilities to the customer concerned have 
been ongoing. 
 

- 6  years  after 

the  end  of 

the 

investment relationship. 

 
 
- 6  years  from  the  date  when  the  sale 

Investment Services: 
-  Fact  finds,  KYC  records  or  similar 
investment-  related  reviews,  portfolio 
management  instructions,  statements 
of compliance, etc. 

-  Other  documentation  related  to  the 

sale of investment products 

was concluded. 

Documentation related to the sale of life 
insurance products 

Documentation  related  to  all  other 
contracts 
lockers, 
guarantees  issued  by  the  banks,  letters 
of credit, etc.) 

(e.g.  safe  deposit 

To  be  retained  for  the  duration  of  the 
policy  plus  a  period  of  six  years 
thereafter.   
6 years from the date when the contract 
is terminated, paid off or expired. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

55 

 
 
 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Appendix II 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

56 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

57 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 

58 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Appendix III 

 

 

59 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

 

60 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

61 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Appendix IV 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

62 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

 

63 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Appendix V 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

 

64 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

65 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 

66 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

67 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Annex II 

ARTICLE 29 DATA PROTECTION WORKING PARTY 

17/EN 

WP 249 

Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at work 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Adopted on 8 June 2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Working Party was set up under Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC. It is an independent European advisory body on data protection 
and privacy. Its tasks are described in Article 30 of Directive 95/46/EC and Article 15 of Directive 2002/58/EC. 
 
The secretariat is provided by Directorate C (Fundamental rights and rule of law) of the European Commission, Directorate General 
Justice and Consumers, B-1049 Brussels, Belgium, Office No MO59 05/35 
 
Website: http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/index_en.htm 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

68 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Contents 
 
 
1  Executive summary .......................................................................................................................  3 

2.  Introduction ...................................................................................................................................  3 

3.  The legal framework .....................................................................................................................  4 

 

 

3.1  Directive 95/46/EC—Data Protection Directive (“DPD”) ......................................................  5 

3.2  Regulation 2016/679—General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) .................................  8 

4.  Risks ...............................................................................................................................................  9 

5. 

Proportionality assessment......................................................................................................... 10 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.1 Processing operations during the recruitment process ........................................................... 11 

5.2  Processing operations resulting from in-employment screening ........................................... 12 

5.3  Processing operations resulting from monitoring ICT usage at the workplace ..................... 12 

5.4  Processing operations resulting from monitoring ICT usage outside the workplace ............ 15 

5.5 

Processing operations relating to time and attendance 

.......................................................... 18 

5.6  Processing operations using video monitoring systems ........................................................ 19 

5.7  Processing operations involving vehicles used by employees .............................................. 19 

5.8  Processing operations involving disclosure of employee data to third parties ...................... 21 

5.9  Processing operations involving international transfers of HR and other employee data ..... 22 

6. 

Conclusions and Recommendations .......................................................................................... 22 

6.1  Fundamental rights ................................................................................................................ 22 

6.2  Consent; legitimate interest ................................................................................................... 23 

6.3  Transparency ......................................................................................................................... 23 

6.4  Proportionality and data minimisation .................................................................................. 23 

6.5  Cloud services, online applications and international transfers ............................................. 24 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

69 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

1 

Executive summary 

 
This  Opinion  complements  the  previous  Article  29  Working  Party  (“WP29”)  publications 
Opinion 8/2001 on the processing of personal data in the employment context (WP48)1, and 
the  2002  Working  Document  on  the  surveillance  of  electronic  communications  in  the 
workplace  (WP55)2.  Since  the  publication  of  these  documents,  a  number  of  new 
technologies  have  been  adopted  that  enable  more  systematic  processing  of  employees’ 
personal data at work, creating significant challenges to privacy and data protection. 
 
This  Opinion  makes  a  new  assessment  of  the  balance  between  legitimate  interests  of 
employers  and  the  reasonable  privacy  expectations  of  employees  by  outlining  the  risks 
posed  by  new  technologies  and  undertaking  a  proportionality  assessment  of  a  number  of 
scenarios in which they could be deployed. 
 
Whilst primarily concerned with the Data Protection Directive, the Opinion looks toward the 
additional  obligations  placed  on  employers  by  the  General  Data  Protection  Regulation.  It 
also  restates  the  position  and  conclusions  of  Opinion  8/2001  and  the  WP55  Working 
Document, namely that when processing employees’ personal data: 
 

  employers should always bear in mind the fundamental data protection principles, 

 

irrespective of the technology used; 
the contents of electronic communications made from business premises enjoy the 
same fundamental rights protections as analogue communications; 

  consent is highly unlikely to be a legal basis for data processing at work, unless 

employees can refuse without adverse consequence; 

  performance  of  a  contract  and  legitimate  interests  can  sometimes  be  invoked, 
provided  the  processing  is  strictly  necessary  for a  legitimate  purpose  and  complies 
with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity; 

  employees should receive effective information about the monitoring that takes 

place; and 

  any international transfer of employee data should take place only where an 

adequate level of protection is ensured. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. 

Introduction 

 
The  rapid  adoption  of  new  information  technologies  in  the  workplace,  in  terms  of 
infrastructure,  applications  and  smart  devices,  allows  for  new  types  of  systematic  and 
potentially invasive data processing at work. For example: 
 
 

technologies enabling data processing at work can now be implemented at a fraction 
of the costs of several years ago whilst the capacity for the processing of personal data 
by these technologies has increased exponentially; 

 
  

                                                 
1 WP29, Opinion 08/2001 on the processing of personal data in the employment context, WP 48, 13 September 
2001, url: 
 
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-
29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2001/wp48_en.pdf 
2 WP29, Working document on the surveillance of electronic communications in the workplace, WP 55, 29 May 
2002, url: 
 
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-
29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2002/wp55_en.pdf 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

70 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 

new  forms  of  processing,  such  as  those  concerning  personal  data  on  the  use  of 
online  services  and/or  location  data  from  a  smart  device,  are  much  less  visible  to 
employees  than  other  more  traditional  types  such  as  overt  CCTV  cameras.  This  raises 
questions  about  the  extent  to  which  employees  are  aware  of  these  technologies,  since 
employers  might  unlawfully  implement  these  processing  without  prior  notice  to  the 
employees; and 

 

the  boundaries  between  home  and  work  have  become  increasingly  blurred.  For 
example,  when employees  work  remotely  (e.g. from  home),  or  whilst  they  are  travelling 
for business, monitoring of activities outside of the physical working environment can take 
place and can potentially include monitoring of the individual in a private context. 

 
Therefore, whilst the use of such technologies can be helpful in detecting or preventing the 
loss of intellectual and material company property, improving the productivity of employees 
and  protecting  the  personal  data  for  which  the  data  controller  is  responsible,  they  also 
create  significant privacy  and data  protection  challenges.  As  a  result,  a  new assessment  is 
required concerning the balance between the legitimate interest of the employer to protect 
its business and the reasonable expectation of privacy of the data subjects: the employees. 
 
Whilst this Opinion will focus on new information technologies by assessing nine different 
scenarios in which they can feature, it will also briefly reflect on more traditional methods of 
data processing at work where the risks are amplified as a result of technological change. 
 
Where the word “employee” is used in this Opinion, WP29 does not intend to restrict the 
scope  of  this  term  merely  to  persons  with  an  employment  contract  recognized  as  such 
under  applicable  labour  laws.  Over  the  past  decades,  new  business  models  served  by 
different types of labour relationships, and in particular employment on a freelance basis, 
have  become  more  commonplace.  This  Opinion  is  intended  to  cover  all  situations  where 
there is an employment relationship, regardless of whether this relationship is based on an 
employment contract. 
 
It  is  important  to  state  that  employees  are  seldom  in  a  position  to  freely  give,  refuse  or 
revoke  consent,  given  the  dependency  that  results  from  the  employer/employee 
relationship.  Unless  in  exceptional  situations, employers  will have to  rely  on  another  legal 
ground  than  consent—  such  as  the  necessity  to  process  the  data  for  their  legitimate 
interest. However, a legitimate interest in itself is not sufficient to override the rights and 
freedoms of employees. 
 
Regardless  of  the  legal  basis  for  such  processing,  a  proportionality  test  should  be 
undertaken prior to its commencement to consider whether the processing is necessary to 
achieve a legitimate purpose, as well as the measures that have to be taken to ensure that 
infringements  of  the  rights  to  private  life  and  secrecy  of  communications  are  limited  to  a 
minimum. This can form part of a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA). 
 

3. 

The legal framework 

 
Whilst the analysis below is primarily conducted in relation to the current legal framework 
under Directive 95/46/EC (the Data Protection Directive or “DPD”)3 , this Opinion will also 
   
                                                 
3 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of 
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data,  OJ L 281, 
23/11/1995, p.31-50, url: http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex:31995L0046. 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

71 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

look  toward  the  obligations  under  Regulation  2016/679  (the  General  Data  Protection 
Regulation  or  “GDPR”)4,  which  has  already  entered  into  force  and  which  will  become 
applicable on 25 May 2018. 
 
With  regard  to  the  proposed  ePrivacy  Regulation5,  the  Working  Party  calls  on  European 
legislators to create a specific exception for interference with devices issued to employees6. 
The Proposed Regulation does not contain a suitable exception to the general interference 
prohibition,  and  employers  cannot  usually  provide  valid  consent  for  the  processing  of 
personal data of their employees. 
 

3.1 

Directive 95/46/EC—Data Protection Directive (“DPD”) 

 
In  Opinion  08/2001,  WP29  previously  outlined  that  employers  take  into  account  the 
fundamental  data  protection  principles  of  the  DPD  when  processing  personal  data  in  the 
employment  context.  The  development  of  new  technologies  and  new  methods  of 
processing  in  this  context  have  not  altered  this situation—in fact,  it  can  be  said that  such 
developments  have  made  it  more  important  for  employers  to  do  so.  In  this  context, 
employers should: 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  ensure that data is processed for specified and legitimate purposes that are 

 

proportionate and necessary; 
take into account the principle of purpose limitation, while making sure that the 
data are adequate, relevant and not excessive for the legitimate purpose; 

  apply the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity regardless of the applicable 

legal ground; 

  be transparent with employees about the use and purposes of monitoring 

technologies; 

  enable the exercise of data subject rights, including the rights of access and, as 

appropriate, the rectification, erasure or blocking of personal data; 

  keep the data accurate, and not retain them any longer than necessary; and 
 

take all necessary measures to protect the data against unauthorised access and 
ensure that staff are sufficiently aware of data protection obligations. 

 
Without  repeating  the  earlier  advice  given,  WP29  wishes  to  highlight  three  principles, 
namely: legal grounds, transparency, and automated decisions. 
 

3.1.1 

LEGAL GROUNDS (ARTICLE 7) 

 
When processing personal data in the employment context, at least one of the criteria set out in 
Art.  7  has  to  be  satisfied.  If  the  types  of  personal  data  processed  involve  the  special 
categories(as elaborated in Art. 8), the processing is prohibited unless an exception applies7,8. 

                                                 
4 Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1-88, url: http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32016R0679. 
5 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the respect for private 
life  and  the  protection  of  personal  data  in  electronic  communications  and  repealing  Directive  2002/58/EC, 
2017/0003 (COD), url: http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/dae/document.cfm?doc_id=41241. 
6 See WP29, Opinion 01/2017 on the Proposed Regulation for the ePrivacy Regulation, WP 247, 04 April 2017, 
page 29; url: http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/document.cfm?doc_id=44103 
7 As stated in part 8 of Opinion 08/2001; for example, Art. 8(2)(b) provides an exception for the purposes of carrying out 
the obligations and specific rights of the controller in the field of employment law in so far as it is authorised by national 
law providing for adequate safeguards. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

72 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Even if the employer can rely on one of those exceptions, a legal ground from Art. 7 is still 
required for the processing to be legitimate. 
 
In summary, employers must therefore take note of the following: 
 

 

 

 

 

for the majority of such data processing at work, the legal basis cannot and should 
not be the consent of the employees (Art 7(a)) due to the nature of the relationship 
between employer and employee; 

  processing  may  be necessary  for  the  performance  of  a  contract  (Art 7(b))  in  cases 
where the employer has to process personal data of the employee to meet any such 
obligations; 
it  is  quite  common  that  employment  law  may  impose  legal  obligations  (Art.  7(c)) 
that necessitate the processing of personal data; in such cases the employee must 
be clearly and fully informed of such processing (unless an exception applies); 

 

  should an employer seek to rely on legitimate interest (Art. 7(f)) the purpose of the 
processing  must  be  legitimate;  the  chosen  method  or  specific  technology  must  be 
necessary,  proportionate  and  implemented  in  the  least  intrusive  manner  possible 
along  with  the  ability  to  enable  the  employer  to  demonstrate  that  appropriate 
measures have been put in place  to ensure a balance with the fundamental rights 
and freedoms of employees9; 
the  processing  operations  must  also  comply  with  the  transparency  requirements 
(Art.  10  and  11),  and  employees  should  be  clearly  and  fully  informed  of  the 
processing of their personal data10, including the existence of any monitoring; and 
  appropriate technical and organisational measures should be adopted to ensure 

 

security of the processing (Art. 17). 

 
The most relevant criteria under Art. 7 are detailed below. 
 

  Consent (Article 7(a)) 

 
Consent,  according  to  the  DPD,  is  defined  as  any  freely-given,  specific  and  informed 
indication of a data subject’s wishes by which the he or she signifies his or her agreement to 
personal  data  relating  to  them  being  processed.  For  consent  to  be  valid,  it  must  also  be 
revocable. 
 
WP29  has  previously  outlined  in  Opinion  8/2001  that  where  an  employer  has  to  process 
personal  data  of  his/her  employees  it  is  misleading  to  start  with  the  supposition  that  the 
processing can be legitimised through the employees’ consent. In cases where an employer 
says they require consent and there is a real or potential relevant prejudice that arises from 
the  employee  not  consenting  (which  can  be  highly  probable  in  the  employment  context, 
especially  when  it  concerns  the  employer  tracking  the  behaviour  of  the  employee  over 
time), then the consent is not valid since it is not and cannot be freely given. Thus, for the  
    
                                                                                                                                                        
8It should be noted that in some countries, there are special measures in place that employers must abide by to protect 
employees’ private lives. Portugal is one example of countries where such special measures exist and similar measures may 
apply in some other Member States too. The conclusions in section 5.6 as well as the examples presented in sections 5.1 
and 5.7.1 of this Opinion are therefore not valid in Portugal for these reasons. 
9 WP29, Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of the data controller under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, 
WP  217,  adopted  9  April  2014,  url:  http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2014/wp217_en.pdf. 
8  10 Pursuant to Art. 11(2) of the DPD, the controller is exempted from the obligation to provide information to the data 
subject in cases where the recording or collection of data is expressly laid down by law. 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

73 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

majority  of  the  cases  of  employees’  data  processing,  the  legal  basis  of  that  processing 
cannot  and  should  not  be  the  consent  of  the  employees,  so  a  different  legal  basis  is 
required. 
 
Moreover, even in cases where consent could be said to constitute a valid legal basis of such 
a  processing  (i.e.  if  it  can  be  undoubtedly  concluded  that  the  consent  is  freely  given),  it 
needs to be a specific and informed indication of the employee’s wishes. Default settings on 
devices  and/or  the  installation  of  software  that  facilitate  the  electronic  personal  data 
processing  cannot  qualify  as  consent  given  from  employees,  since  consent  requires  an 
active  expression  of  will.  A  lack  of  action  (i.e,  not  changing  the  default  settings)  may 
generally not be considered as a specific consent to allow such processing11. 
 

  Performance of a contract (Article 7(b)) 

 
Employment  relationships  are  often  based  on  a  contract  of  employment  between  the 
employer and the employee. When meeting obligations under this contract, such as paying 
the employee, the employer is required to process some personal data. 
 

  Legal obligations (Article 7(c)) 

 
It is quite common that employment law imposes legal obligations on the employer, which 
necessitate  the  processing  of  personal  data  (e.g.  for  the  purpose  of  tax  calculation  and 
salary administration). Clearly, in such cases, such a law constitutes the legal basis for the 
data processing.. 
 

  Legitimate interest (Article 7(f)) 

 
If an employer wishes to rely upon the legal ground of Art. 7(f) of the DPD, the purpose of 
the  processing  must  be  legitimate,  and  the  chosen  method  or  specific  technology  with 
which the processing is  to be undertaken must be necessary for the legitimate interest of 
the  employer.  The  processing  must  also  be  proportionate  to  the  business  needs,  i.e.  the 
purpose, it is meant to address. Data processing at work should be carried out in the least 
intrusive manner possible and be targeted to the specific area of risk. Additionally, if relying 
on  Art.  7(f),  the  employee  retains  the  right  to  object  to  the  processing  on  compelling 
legitimate grounds under Art. 14. 
 
In  order  to  rely  on  Art.  7(f)  as  the  legal  ground  for  processing  it  is  essential  that  specific 
mitigating measures are present to ensure a proper balance between the legitimate interest 
of  the  employer  and  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  employees.12  Such 
measures, depending on the form of monitoring, should include limitations on monitoring 
so as to guarantee that the employee’s privacy is not violated. Such limitations could be: 
  

                                                 
11 See also WP29, Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent, WP187, 13 July 2011, url: 
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2011/wp187_en.pdf, page 24. 
12 For an example of the balance that needs to be struck, see the case of Köpke v Germany, [2010] ECHR 1725, 
(URL: http://www.bailii.org/eu/cases/ECHR/2010/1725.html), in which an employee was dismissed as a result 
of a covert video surveillance operation undertaken by the employer and a private detective agency. Whilst in 
this instance the Court concluded that the domestic authorities had struck a fair balance between the 
employer’s legitimate interest (in the protection of its property rights), the employee’s right to respect for 
private life, and the public interest in the administration of justice, it also observed that the various interests 
concerned could be given a different weight in future as a result of technological development 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

74 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

  geographical  (e.g.  monitoring  only  in  specific  places;  monitoring  sensitive  areas 
such as religious places and for example sanitary zones and break rooms should 
be prohibited), 

  data-oriented (e.g. personal electronic files and communication should not be 

monitored), and 
time-related (e.g. sampling instead of continuous monitoring). 

 

3.1.2 

TRANSPARENCY (ARTICLES 10 AND 11) 

 
The  transparency  requirements  of  Articles  10  and  11  apply  to  data  processing  at  work; 
employees  must  be  informed  of  the  existence  of  any  monitoring,  the  purposes  for  which 
personal  data  are  to  be  processed  and  any  other  information  necessary  to  guarantee  fair 
processing. 
 
With new technologies, the need for transparency becomes more evident since they enable 
the collection and further processing of possibly huge amounts of personal data in a covert 
way. 
 

3.1.3 

AUTOMATED DECISIONS (ARTICLE 15) 

 
Art. 15 of the DPD also grants data subjects the right not to be subject to a decision based 
solely  on  automated  processing,  where  that  decision  produces  legal  effects  or  similarly 
significantly  affects  them  and  which  is  based  solely  on  automated  processing  of  data 
intended  to  evaluate  certain  personal  aspects,  such  as  performance  at  work,  unless  the 
decision is necessary for entering into or performance of a contract, authorised by Union or 
Member State law, or is based on the explicit consent of the data subject. 
 

3.2 

Regulation 2016/679—General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) 

 
The  GDPR  includes  and  enhances  the  requirements  in  the  DPD.  It  also  introduces  new 
obligations for all data controllers, including employers. 
 

3.2.1 

DATA PROTECTION BY DESIGN 

 
Art. 25 of the GDPR requires data controllers to implement data protection by design and by 
default. As an example: where an employer issues devices to employees, the most privacy-
friendly  solutions  should  be  selected 
involved.  Data 
minimisation must also be taken into account. 
 

if  tracking  technologies  are 

3.2.2 

DATA PROTECTION IMPACT ASSESSMENTS 

 
Art.  35  of  the  GDPR  outlines  the  requirements  for  a  data  controller  to  carry  out  a  Data 
Protection  Impact  Assessment  (DPIA)  where  a  type  of  processing,  in  particular  using  new 
technologies,  and  taking  into  account  the  nature,  scope,  context  and  purposes  of  the 
processing  itself,  is  likely  to  result  in  a  high  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural 
persons.  An  example  is  a  case  of  systematic  and  extensive  evaluation  of  personal  aspects 
related to natural persons based on automated processing including profiling, and on which 
decisions  are  taken  that  produce  legal  effects  concerning  the  natural  person  or  similarly 
significantly affect the natural person. 
 
 
 
 
  
Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

75 

 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Where  the  DPIA  indicates  that the  identified  risks  cannot  be  sufficiently  addressed  by the 
controller—i.e.,  that  the  residual  risks  remain  high—then  the  controller  must  consult  the 
supervisory authority prior to the commencement of the processing (Art. 36(1)) as clarified 
in the WP29 guidelines on DPIAs13. 
 

3.2.2 

“PROCESSING IN THE CONTEXT OF EMPLOYMENT” 

 
Art.  88  of  the  GDPR  states  that  Member  States  may,  by  law  or  collective  agreements, 
provide  for  more  specific  rules  to  ensure  the  protection  of  the  rights  and  freedoms  in 
respect  of  the  processing  of  employees’  personal  data  in  the  employment  context.  In 
particular, these rules may be provided for the purposes of: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

recruitment; 

 
  performance of the employment contract (including discharge of obligations laid 

down by law or collective agreements); 

  management, planning and organisation of work; 
  equality and diversity in the workplace; 
  health and safety at work; 
  protection of an employer’s or customer’s property; 
  exercise and enjoyment (on an individual basis) of rights and benefits related to 

employment; and 
termination of the employment relationship. 

 

 
In accordance with Art. 88(2), any such rules should include suitable and specific measures 
to safeguard the data subject’s human dignity, legitimate interests and fundamental rights, 
with particular regard to: 
 

 
 

the transparency of processing; 
the transfer of personal data within a group of undertakings or group of enterprises 
engaged in a joint economic activity; and 

 

 

  monitoring systems at the workplace. 

 
In  this  Opinion,  the  Working  Party  has  provided  guidelines  for  the  legitimate  use  of  new 
technology  in  a  number  of  specific  situations,  detailing  suitable  and  specific  measures  to 
safeguard the human dignity, legitimate interest and fundamental rights of employees. 
 

4. 

Risks 

 
Modern  technologies  enable  employees  to  be  tracked  over  time,  across  workplaces  and 
their  homes,  through  many  different  devices  such  as  smartphones,  desktops,  tablets, 
vehicles and wearables. If there are no limits to the processing, and if it is not transparent, 
there  is  a  high  risk  that  the  legitimate  interest  of  employers  in  the  improvement  of 
efficiency  and  the  protection  of  company  assets  turns  into  unjustifiable  and  intrusive 
monitoring. 
 
Technologies  that  monitor  communications  can  also  have  a  chilling  effect  on  the 
fundamental  rights  of  employees  to  organise,  set  up  workers’  meetings,  and  to 
communicate  confidentially  (including  the  right  to  seek 
information).  Monitoring 
                                                 
13 WP29, Guidelines on data protection impact assessment (DPIA) and determining whether processing is likely 
to result in “high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, WP 248, 04 April 2017, url: 
http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/document.cfm?doc_id=44137, page 18. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

76 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

communications  and  behaviour  will  put  pressure  on  employees  to  conform  in  order  to 
prevent the detection of what might be perceived as anomalies, in a comparable way to the 
way in which the intensive use of CCTV has influenced citizens’ behaviour in public spaces. 
Moreover, owing to the capabilities of such technologies, employees may not be aware of 
what  personal  data  are  being  processed  and  for  which  purposes,  whilst  it  is  also  possible 
that they are not even aware of the existence of the monitoring technology itself. 
 
Monitoring IT usage also differs from other, more visible observation and monitoring tools 
like  CCTV  in  that  it  can  take  place  in  a  covert  way.  In  the  absence  of  an  easily 
understandable and readily accessible workplace monitoring policy, employees may not be 
aware  of  the  existence  and  consequences  of  the  monitoring  that  is  taking  place,  and  are 
therefore unable to exercise their rights. A further risk comes from the “over-collection” of 
data in such systems, e.g. those collecting WiFi location data. 
 
The  increase  in  the  amount  of  data  generated  in  the  workplace  environment,  in 
combination  with  new  techniques  for  data  analysis  and  cross-matching,  may  also  create 
risks of incompatible further processing. Examples of illegitimate further processing include 
using  systems  that  are  legitimately  installed  to  protect  properties  to  then  monitor  the 
availability, performance and customer-friendliness of employees. Others include using data 
collected  via  a  CCTV  system  to  regularly  monitor  the  behaviour  and  performance  of 
employees, or using data of a geolocation system (such as for example WiFi- or Bluetooth 
tracking) to constantly check an employee’s movements and behaviour. 
 
As a result, such tracking may infringe upon the privacy rights of employees, regardless of 
whether the monitoring takes place systematically or occasionally. The risk is not limited to 
the  analysis  of  the  content  of  communications.  Thus,  the  analysis  of  metadata  about  a 
person might allow for an equally privacy-invasive detailed monitoring of an individual’s life 
and behavioural patterns. 
 
The extensive use of monitoring technologies may also limit employees’ willingness to (and 
channels  by  which  they  could)  inform  employers  about  irregularities  or  illegal  actions  of 
superiors  and/or  other  employees  threatening  to  damage  the  business  (especially  client 
data) or workplace. Anonymity is often necessary for a concerned employee to take action 
and report such situations. Monitoring that infringes upon the privacy rights of employees 
may hamper necessary communications to the appropriate officers. In such an instance, the 
established means for internal whistle-blowers may become ineffective1414. 
 
 

5. 

Scenarios 

 
This  section  addresses  a  number  of  data  processing  at  work  scenarios  in  which  new 
technologies and/or developments of existing technologies have, or may have, the potential 
to  result  in  high  risks  to  the  privacy  of  employees.  In  all  such  cases  employers  should 
consider whether: 
 
 

                                                 
14 See for example WP29, Opinion 1/2006 on the application of EU data protection rules to internal 
whistleblowing schemes in the fields of accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing matters, fight against 
bribery, banking and financial crime, WP 117, 1 February 2006, url: http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-
protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2006/wp117_en.pdf. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

77 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 
 
 
 

the processing activity is necessary, and if so, the legal grounds that apply; 
the proposed processing of personal data is fair to the employees; 
the processing activity is proportionate to the concerns raised; and 
the processing activity is transparent. 

5.1 

Processing operations during the recruitment process 

 
Use of social media by individuals is widespread and it is relatively common for user profiles 
to be publicly viewable depending on the settings chosen by the account holder. As a result, 
employers may believe that inspecting the social profiles of prospective candidates can be 
justified  during  their  recruitment  processes.  This  may  also  be  the  case  for  other  publicly-
available information about the potential employee. 
 
However,  employers  should  not  assume  that  merely  because  an  individual’s  social  media 
profile  is  publicly  available  they  are  then  allowed  to  process  those  data  for  their  own 
purposes. A legal ground is required for this processing, such as legitimate interest. In this 
context  the  employer  should—prior  to  the  inspection  of  a  social  media  profile—take  into 
account whether the social media profile of the applicant is related to business or private 
purposes,  as  this  can  be  an  important  indication  for  the  legal  admissibility  of  the  data 
inspection.  In  addition,  employers  are  only  allowed  to  collect  and  process  personal  data 
relating  to  job  applicants  to  the  extent  that  the  collection  of  those  data  is  necessary  and 
relevant to the performance of the job which is being applied for. 
 
Data  collected  during  the  recruitment  process  should  generally  be  deleted  as  soon  as  it 
becomes  clear  that  an  offer  of  employment  will  not  be  made  or  is  not  accepted  by  the 
individual  concerned15.  The  individual  must  also  be  correctly  informed  of  any  such 
processing before they engage with the recruitment process. 
 
There  is  no  legal  ground  for  an  employer  to  require  potential  employees  to  “friend”  the 
potential employer, or in other ways provide access to the contents of their profiles. 
 
 
Example 
 
During the recruitment of new staff, an employer checks the profiles of the candidates on 
various  social  networks  and  includes  information  from  these  networks  (and  any  other 
information available on the internet) in the screening process. 
 
Only if it is necessary for the job to review information about a candidate on social media, 
for  example  in  order  to  be  able  to  assess  specific  risks  regarding  candidates  for  a  specific 
function,  and  the  candidates  are  correctly  informed  (for  example,  in  the  text  of  the  job 
advert) the employer may have a legal basis under Article 7(f) to review publicly-available 
information about candidates. 
 
 
 

                                                 
15 See also Council of Europe, Recommendation CM/Rec(2015)5 of the Committee of Ministers to Member 
States on the processing of personal data in the context of employment, paragraph 13.2 (1 April 2015, url: 
https://search.coe.int/cm/Pages/result_details.aspx?ObjectID=09000016805c3f7a). In cases where the 
employer wishes to retain the data with a view to a further job opportunity, the data subject should be 
informed accordingly and be given the possibility to object to such further processing, in which case it should 
be deleted (Id.). 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

78 

 
 
 

 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

5.2 

Processing operations resulting from in-employment screening 

 
Through the existence of  profiles  on  social  media,  and the  development  of  new  analytical 
technologies,  employers  have  (or  can  obtain)  the  technical  capability  of  permanently 
screening  employees  by  collecting  information  regarding  their  friends,  opinions,  beliefs, 
interests, habits, whereabouts, attitudes and behaviours therefore capturing data, including 
sensitive data, relating to the employee's private and family life. 
 
In-employment  screening  of  employees’  social  media  profiles  should  not  take  place  on  a 
generalised basis. 
 
Moreover, employers should refrain from requiring an employee or a job applicant access 
to information that he or she shares with others through social networking. 
 
 
Example 
 
An employer monitors the LinkedIn profiles of former employees that are involved during 
the  duration  of  non-compete  clauses.  The  purpose  of  this  monitoring  is  to  monitor 
compliance with such clauses. The monitoring is limited to these former employees. 
 
As  long  as  the  employer  can  prove  that  such  monitoring  is  necessary  to  protect  his 
legitimate  interests,  that  there  are  no  other,  less  invasive  means  available,  and  that  the 
former  employees  have  been  adequately  informed  about  the  extent  of  the  regular 
observation of their public communications, the employer may be able to rely on the legal 
basis of Article 7(f) of the DPD. 
 
Additionally,  employees  should  not  be  required  to  utilise  a  social  media  profile  that  is 
provided  by  their  employer.  Even  when  this  is  specifically  foreseen  in  light  of  their  tasks 
(e.g. spokesperson for an organisation), they must retain the option of a “non-work” non-
public  profile  that  they  can  use  instead  of  the  “official”  employer-related  profile,  and  this 
should be specified in the terms and conditions of the employment contract. 
 

5.3 

Processing operations resulting from monitoring ICT usage at the workplace 

 
Traditionally,  the  monitoring  of  electronic  communications  in  the  workplace  (eg,  phone, 
internet browsing, email, instant messaging, VOIP, etc.) was considered the main threat to 
employees’  privacy.  In  its  2001  Working  Document  on  the  surveillance  of  electronic 
communications  in  the  workplace,  WP29  made a  number  of  conclusions  in relation  to  the 
monitoring  of  email  and  internet  usage.  While  those  conclusions  remain  valid,  there  is  a 
need to take into account technological developments that have enabled newer, potentially 
more  intrusive  and  pervasive  ways  of  monitoring.  Such  developments  include,  amongst 
others: 
 

  Data Loss Prevention (DLP) tools, which monitor outgoing communications for the 

 

purpose of detecting potential data breaches; 

  Next-Generation  Firewalls  (NGFWs)  and  Unified  Threat  Management  (UTM) 
systems,  which  can  provide  a  variety  of  monitoring  technologies  including  deep 
packet inspection, TLS interception, website filtering, content filtering, on-appliance 
reporting, user identity information and (as described above) data loss prevention. 
Such technologies may also be deployed individually, depending on the employer; 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

79 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

  security  applications  and  measures  that  involve  logging  employee  access  to  the 

employer’s systems; 

  eDiscovery technology, which refers to any process in which electronic data is 

 

 

searched with the aim of its use as evidence; 
tracking of application and device usage via unseen software, either on the desktop 
or in the cloud; 
the use in the workplace of office applications provided as a cloud service, which in 
theory allow for very detailed logging of the activities of employees; 

  monitoring  of  personal  devices  (e.g.,  PCs,  mobile  phones,  tablets),  that  employees 
supply  for  their  work  in  accordance  with  a  specific  use  policy,  such  as  Bring-Your-
Own-Device  (BYOD),  as  well  as  Mobile  Device  Management  (MDM)  technology 
which enables the distribution of applications, data and configuration settings, and 
patches for mobile devices; and 
the use of wearable devices (e.g., health and fitness devices). 

 

 
It is possible that an employer will implement an “all-in-one” monitoring solution, such as a 
suite of security packages which enable them to monitor all ICT usage in the workplace as 
opposed  to  just  email  and/or  website  monitoring  as  was  once  the  case.  The  conclusions 
adopted in WP55 would apply for any system that enables such monitoring to take place.16 
 
 
Example 
 
An  employer  intends  to  deploy  a  TLS  inspection  appliance  to  decrypt  and  inspect  secure 
traffic, with the purpose of detecting anything malicious. The appliance is also able to record 
and analyse the entirety of an employee’s online activity on the organisation’s network. 
 
Use  of  encrypted  communications  protocols  is  increasingly  being  implemented  to  protect 
online  data  flows  involving  personal  data  against  interception.  However,  this  can  also 
present  issues,  as  the  encryption  makes  it  impossible  to  monitor  incoming  and  outgoing 
data. TLS inspection equipment decrypts the data stream, analyses the content for security 
purposes and then re-encrypts the stream afterwards. 
 
In this example, the employer relies upon legitimate interests—the necessity to protect the 
network,  and  the  personal  data  of  employees  and  customers  held  within  that  network, 
against unauthorised  access  or  data  leakage.  However,  monitoring  every  online  activity of 
the employees is a disproportionate response and an interference with the right to secrecy 
of  communications.  The  employer  should  first  investigate  other,  less  invasive,  means  to 
protect the confidentiality of customer data and the security of the network. 
 
To the extent that some interception of TLS traffic can be qualified as strictly necessary, the 
appliance should be configured in a way to prevent permanent logging of employee activity, 
for example by blocking suspicious incoming or outgoing traffic and redirecting the user to 
an information portal where he or she may ask for review of such an automated decision. If 
some general logging would nonetheless be deemed strictly necessary, the appliance may 
 
 
 
                                                 
16 See also Copland v United Kingdom, (2007) 45 EHRR 37, 25 BHRC 216, 2 ALR Int'l 785, [2007] ECHR 253 (url: 
http://www.bailii.org/eu/cases/ECHR/2007/253.html), in which the Court stated that emails sent from 
business premises and information derived from the monitoring of internet use could be a part of an 
employee’s private life and correspondence, and that the collection and storage of that information without 
the knowledge of the employee would amount to an interference with the employee’s rights, although the 
Court did not rule that such monitoring would never be necessary in a democratic society. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

80 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 
also  be  configured  not to  store  log  data  unless the  appliance  signals the  occurrence  of  an 
incident, with a minimization of the information collected. 
 
As a good practice, the employer could offer alternative unmonitored access for employees. 
This  could  be  done  by  offering  free  WiFi,  or  stand-alone  devices  or  terminals  (with 
appropriate safeguards to ensure confidentiality of the communications) where employees 
can exercise their legitimate right to use work facilities for some private usage17. Moreover, 
employers should consider certain types of traffic whose interception endangers the proper 
balance  between  their  legitimate  interests  and  employee’s  privacy—such  as  the  use  of 
private webmail, visits to online banking and health websites—with the aim to appropriately 
configure  the  appliance  so  as  not  to  proceed  with  interception  of  communications  in 
circumstances  that  are  not  compliant  with  proportionality.  Information  on  the  type  of 
communications that the appliance is monitoring should be specified to the employees. 
 
A  policy  concerning  the  purposes  for  when,  and  by  whom,  suspicious  log  data  can  be 
accessed  should  be  developed  and  made  easily  and  permanently  accessible  for  all 
employees,  in  order  to  also  guide  them  about  acceptable  and  unacceptable  use  of  the 
network  and  facilities.  This  allows  employees  to  adapt  their  behaviour  to  prevent  being 
monitored  when  they  legitimately  use  IT  work  facilities  for  private  use.  As  good  practice, 
such  a  policy  should  be  evaluated,  at  least  annually,  to  assess  whether  the  chosen 
monitoring solution delivers the intended results, and whether there are other, less invasive 
tools or means available to achieve the same purposes. 
 
Irrespective of the technology concerned or the capabilities it possesses, the legal  basis of 
Article  7(f)  is  only  available  if  the  processing  meets  certain  conditions.  Firstly,  employers 
utilising these products and applications must consider the proportionality of the measures 
they  are  implementing,  and  whether  any  additional  actions  can  be  taken  to  mitigate  or 
reduce  the  scale  and  impact  of  the  data  processing.  As  an  example  of  good  practice,  this 
consideration  could  be  undertaken  via  a  DPIA  prior  to  the  introduction  of  any  monitoring 
technology. Secondly, employers must implement and communicate acceptable use policies 
alongside privacy  policies,  outlining the permissible  use of the organisation’s  network  and 
equipment, and strictly detailing the processing taking place. 
 
In some countries the creation of such a policy would legally require approval of a Workers’ 
Council or similar representation of employees. In practice, such policies are often drafted 
by IT  maintenance  staff.  Since their  main focus will  mostly  be  on  security, and not  on  the 
legitimate  expectation  of  privacy  of  employees,  WP29  recommends  that  in  all  cases  a 
representative sample of employees is involved in assessing the necessity of the monitoring, 
as well as the logic and accessibility of the policy. 
 
 
  

                                                 
17 See Halford v. United Kingdom, [1997] ECHR 32, (url: http://www.bailii.org/eu/cases/ECHR/1997/32.html), 
in which the Court stated that “telephone calls made from business premises as well as from the home may be 
covered by the notions of ‘private life’ and ‘correspondence’ within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph 1 [of 
the 
(url: 
http://www.bailii.org/eu/cases/ECHR/2016/61.html),  concerning the use of a  professional instant  messenger 
account  for  personal  correspondence,  in  which  the  Court  stated  that  monitoring  of  the  account  by  the 
employer was limited and proportionate; the dissenting opinion of Judge Pinto de Alberquerque which argued 
for a careful balance to be struck 

Convention]”; 

Barbulescu 

Romania, 

[2016] 

ECHR 

and 

61, 

v. 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

81 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 
Example 
 
An  employer  deploys  a  Data  Loss  Prevention  tool  to  monitor  the  outgoing  e-mails 
automatically, for the purpose of preventing unauthorised transmission of proprietary data 
(e.g. customer’s personal data), independently from whether such an action is unintentional 
or not. Once an e-mail is being considered as the potential source of a data breach, further 
investigation is performed. 
 
Again,  the  employer  relies  upon  the  necessity  for  his  legitimate  interest  to  protect  the 
personal  data  of  customers  as  well  as  his  assets  against  unauthorised  access  or  data 
leakage. However, such a DLP tool may involve unnecessary processing of personal data —
for example, a “false positive” alert might result in unauthorized access of legitimate e-mails 
that have been sent by employees (which may be, for instance, personal e-mails). 
 
Therefore, the necessity of the DLP tool and its deployment should be fully justified so as to 
strike the proper balance between his legitimate interests and the fundamental right to the 
protection of employees’ personal data. In order for the legitimate interests of the employer 
to be relied upon, certain measures should be taken to mitigate the risks. For example, the 
rules that the system follows to characterize an e-mail as potential data breach should be 
fully transparent to the users, and in cases that the tool recognises an e-mail that is to be 
sent as a possible data breach, a warning message should inform the sender of the e-mail 
prior  to  the  e-mail  transmission,  so  as  to  give  the  sender  the  option  to  cancel  this 
transmission. 
 
In  some  cases,  the  monitoring  of  employees  is  possible  not  so  much  because  of  the 
deployment  of  specific  technologies,  but  simply  because  employees  are  expected  to  use 
online applications made available by the employer which process personal data. The use of 
cloud-based  office  applications  (e.g.  document  editors,  calendars,  social  networking)  is  an 
example of this. It should be ensured that employees can designate certain private spaces to 
which the employer may not gain access unless under exceptional circumstances. This, for 
example, is relevant for calendars, which are often also used for private appointments. If the 
employee  sets  an  appointment to  “Private” or notes this  in  appointment  itself,  employers 
(and other employees) should not be allowed to review the contents of the appointment. 
 
The  requirement  of  subsidiarity in  this  context  sometimes  means  that no  monitoring  may 
take place at all. For example, this is the case where the prohibited use of communications 
services  can  be  prevented  by  blocking  certain  websites.  If  it  is  possible  to  block  websites, 
instead of continuously monitoring all communications, blocking should be chosen in order 
to comply with this requirement of subsidiarity. 
 
More  generally,  prevention  should  be  given  much  more  weight  than  detection—the 
interests of the employer are better served by preventing internet misuse through technical 
means than by expending resources in detecting misuse. 
 

5.4 

Processing operations resulting from monitoring ICT usage outside the 
workplace 

ICT  usage  outside  the  workplace  has  become  more  common  with  the  growth  of 
homeworking,  remote  working  and  “bring  your  own  device”  policies.  The  capabilities  of 
such  technologies  can  pose  a  risk  to  the  private  life  of  employees,  as  in  many  cases  the 
monitoring systems existing in the  workplace are effectively extended into the employees’ 
domestic sphere when they use such equipment. . 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

82 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

5.4.1  MONITORING OF HOME AND REMOTE WORKING 

 
It  has  become  more  common  for  employers  to  offer  employees  the  option  to  work 
remotely, e.g., from home and/or whilst in transit. Indeed, this is a central factor behind the 
reduced  distinction  between  the  workplace  and  the  home.  In  general  this  involves  the 
employer issuing ICT equipment or software to the employees which, once installed in their 
home/on  their  own  devices,  enables  them  to  have  the  same  level  of  access  to  the 
employer’s  network,  systems  and  resources  that  they  would  have  if  they  were  in  the 
workplace, depending on the implementation. 
 
Whilst remote working can be a positive development, it also presents an area of additional 
risk  for  an  employer.  For  example,  employees  that  have  remote  access  to  the  employer’s 
infrastructure are not bound by the physical security measures that may be in place at the 
employer’s premises. To put it plainly: without the implementation of appropriate technical 
measures the risk of unauthorised access increases and may result in the loss or destruction 
of information, including personal data of employees or customers, which the employer may 
hold. 
 
In  order  to  mitigate  this  area  of  risk  employers  may  think  there  is  a  justification  for 
deploying software packages (either on-premise or in the cloud) that have the capabilities 
of,  for  example,  logging  keystrokes  and  mouse  movements,  screen  capturing  (either 
randomly  or  at  set  intervals),  logging  of  applications  used  (and  how  long  they  were  used 
for), and,  upon  compatible  devices,  enabling  webcams  and  collecting  the  footage thereof. 
Such technologies are widely available including from third parties such as cloud providers. 
 
However,  the  processing  involved  in  such  technologies  are  disproportionate  and  the 
employer is very unlikely to have a legal ground under legitimate interest, e.g. for recording 
an employee’s keystrokes and mouse movements. 
 
The key is addressing the risk posed by home and remote working in a proportionate, non-
excessive  manner,  in  whatever  way  the  option  is  offered  and  by  whatever  technology  is 
proposed, particularly if the boundaries between business and private use are fluid. 
 

5.4.2 

BRING YOUR OWN DEVICE (BYOD) 

 
Due  to  the  rise  in  popularity,  features  and  capability  of  consumer  electronic  devices, 
employers may face demands from employees to use their own devices in the workplace to 
carry out their jobs. This is known as “bring your own device” or BYOD. 
 
Implementing  BYOD effectively can  lead to  a  number of  benefits for  employees,  including 
improved  employee  job  satisfaction,  overall  morale  increase,  increased  job  efficiency  and 
increased  flexibility.  However,  by  definition,  some  use  of  an  employee's  device  will  be 
personal in nature, and this is more likely to be the case at certain times of the day (e.g., 
evenings  and  weekends).  It  is  therefore  a  distinct  possibility  that  employees’  use  of  their 
own  devices  will  lead  to  employers  processing  non-corporate  information  about  those 
employees, and possibly any family members who also use the devices in question. 
 
In  the  employment  context,  BYOD  privacy  risks  are  commonly  associated  with  monitoring 
technologies  that  collect  identifiers  such  as  MAC  addresses,  or  in  instances  where  an 
employer  accesses  an  employee’s  device  under  the  justification  of  performing  a  security 
scan, i.e. for malware. In respect of the latter, a number of commercial solutions exist that 
allow for the scanning of private devices, however their usage could potentially 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

83 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

access all data on that device and therefore they must be carefully managed. For example, 
those sections of a device which are presumed to be only used for private purposes (e.g. the 
folder storing photos taken with the device) may in principle not be accessed. 
 
Monitoring the location and traffic of such devices may be considered to serve a legitimate 
interest  to  protect  the  personal  data  that  the  employer  is  responsible  for  as  the  data 
controller;  however  this  may  be  unlawful  where  an  employee's  personal  device  is 
concerned,  if  such  monitoring  also  captures  data  relating  to  the  employee's  private  and 
family life. In order to prevent monitoring of private information appropriate measures must 
be in place to distinguish between private and business use of the device. 
 
Employers  should  also  implement  methods  by  which  their  own  data  on  the  device  is 
securely  transferred  between  that  device  and  their  network.  It  may  be  the  case  that  the 
device  is  therefore  configured  to  route  all  traffic  through  a  VPN  back  into  the  corporate 
network, so as to offer a certain level of security; however, if such a measure is used, the 
employer should also consider that software installed for the purposes of monitoring pose a 
privacy risk during periods of personal usage by the employee. Devices that offer additional 
protections such as “sandboxing” data (keeping data contained within a specific app) could 
be used. 
 
Conversely,  the  employer  must  also  consider  the  prohibition  of  the  use  of  specific  work 
devices  for  private  use  if  there  is  no  way  to  prevent  private  use  being  monitored—for 
example if the device offers remote access to personal data for which the employer is the 
data controller. 
 

5.4.3  MOBILE DEVICE MANAGEMENT (MDM) 

 
Mobile device management enables employers to locate devices remotely, deploy specific 
configurations and/or applications, and delete data on demand. An employer may operate 
this functionality himself, or use a third party to do so. MDM services also enable employers 
to record or track the device in real-time even if it is not reported stolen. 
 
A  DPIA  should  be  performed  prior  to  the  deployment  of  any  such  technology  where  it  is 
new, or new to the data controller. If the outcome of the DPIA is that the MDM technology 
is necessary in specific circumstances, an assessment should still be made as to whether the 
resulting  data  processing  complies  with  the  principles  of  proportionality  and  subsidiarity. 
Employers must ensure that the data collected as part of this remote location capability is 
processed  for  a  specified  purpose  and  does  not,  and  could  not,  form  part  of  a  wider 
programme  enabling  ongoing  monitoring  of  employees.  Even  for  specified  purposes,  the 
tracking  features  should  be  mitigated.  Tracking  systems  can  be  designed  to  register  the 
location  data  without  presenting  it  to  the  employer—in  such  circumstances,  the  location 
data should become available only in circumstances where the device would be reported or 
lost. 
 
Employees  whose  devices  are  enrolled  in MDM  services  must  also be fully informed  as  to 
what tracking is taking place, and what consequences this has for them. 
 

5.4.4  WEARABLE DEVICES 

 
Employers are increasingly tempted to provide wearable devices to their employees in order 
to  track  and  monitor  their  health  and  activity  within  and  sometimes  even  outside  of  the 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

84 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

workplace.  However,  this  data  processing  involves  the  processing  of  health  data,  and  is 
therefore prohibited based on Article 8 of the DPD. 
 
Given the unequal relationship between employers and employees—i.e., the employee has 
a financial dependence on the employer—and the sensitive nature of the health data, it is 
highly unlikely that legally valid explicit consent can be given for the tracking or monitoring 
of such data as employees are essentially not 'free' to give such consent in the first place. 
Even if the employer uses a third party to collect the health data, which would only provide 
aggregated information about general health developments to the employer, the processing 
would still be unlawful. 
 
Also,  as  described  in  Opinion  5/2014  on  Anonymisation  Techniques18,  it  is  technically  very 
difficult to ensure complete anonymisation of the data. Even in an environment with over a 
thousand employees, given the availability of other data about the employees the employer 
would still be able to single out individual employees with particular health indications such 
as high blood pressure or obesity. 
 
 
Example: 
 
An  organisation  offers  fitness  monitoring  devices  to  its  employees  as  a  general  gift.  The 
devices  count  the  number  of  steps  employees  take,  and  register  their  heartbeats  and 
sleeping patterns over time. 
 
The resulting health data should only be accessible to the employee and not the employer. 
Any  data  transferred  between  the  employee  (as  data  subject)  and  the  device/service 
provider (as data controller) is a matter for those parties. 
 
As the health data could also be processed by the commercial party that has manufactured 
the  devices  or  offers  a  service  to  employers,  when  choosing  the  device  or  service  the 
employer should evaluate the privacy policy of the manufacturer and/or service provider, to 
ensure that it does not result in unlawful processing of health data on employees. 
 

5.5 

Processing operations relating to time and attendance 

 
Systems  that  enable  employers  to  control  who  can  enter  their  premises,  and/or  certain 
areas  within  their  premises,  can  also  allow  the  tracking  of  employees’  activities.  Although 
such  systems  have  existed  for  a  number  of  years,  new  technologies  intended  to  track 
employees’  time  and  attendance  are  being  more  widely  deployed,  including  those  that 
process of biometric data as well as others such as mobile device tracking. 
 
Whilst  such  systems  can  form  an  important  component  of  an  employer’s  audit  trail,  they 
also  pose  the  risk  of  providing  an  invasive  level  of  knowledge  and  control  regarding  the 
activities of the employee whilst in the workplace. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
18  WP29,  Opinion  5/2014  on  anonymization 
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2014/wp216_en.pdf 
 

techniques,  WP  216,  10  April  2014,  url: 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

85 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

 
Example: 
 
An employer maintains a server room in which business-sensitive data, personal data  
relating  to  employees  and personal  data  relating  to  customers is  stored  in  digital form.  In 
order to comply with legal obligations to secure the data against unauthorised access, the 
employer  has  installed  an  access  control  system  that  records  the  entrance  and  exit  of 
employees  who  have  appropriate  permission  to  enter  the  room.  Should  any  item  of 
equipment  go  missing,  or  if  any  data  is  subject  to  unauthorised  access,  loss  or  theft,  the 
records maintained by the employer allow them to determine who had access to the room 
at that time. 
 
Given that the processing is necessary and does not outweigh the right to private life of the 
employees, it can be in the legitimate interest under Art. 7(f), if the employees have been 
adequately informed about the processing operation. However, the continuous monitoring 
of the frequency and exact entrance and exit times of the employees cannot be justified if 
these data are also used for another purpose, such as employee performance evaluation. 
 

5.6 

Processing operations using video monitoring systems 

 
Video monitoring and surveillance continues to present similar issues for employee privacy 
as  before: the  capability  to  continuously  capture  the behaviour  of  the  worker.19  The  most 
relevant changes relating to the application of this technology in the employment context 
are the capability to access the collected data remotely (e.g. via a smartphone) easily; the 
reduction  in  the  cameras’  sizes  (along  with  an  increase  in  their  capabilities,  e.g.  high-
definition); and the processing that can be performed by new video analytics. 
 
With the capabilities given by video analytics, it is possible for an employer to monitor the 
worker’s  facial  expressions  by  automated  means,  to  identify  deviations  from  predefined 
movement patterns (e.g. factory context), and more. This would be disproportionate to the 
rights and freedoms of employees, and therefore, generally unlawful. The processing is also 
likely  to  involve  profiling,  and  possibly,  automated  decision-making.  Therefore,  employers 
should  refrain  from  the  use  of  facial  recognition  technologies.  There  may  be  some  fringe 
exceptions to this rule, but such scenarios cannot be used to invoke a general legitimation 
of the use of such technology20. 
 

5.7 

Processing operations involving vehicles used by employees 

 
Technologies that enable employers to monitor their vehicles have become widely adopted, 
particularly  among  organisations  whose  activities  involve  transport  or  have  significant 
vehicle fleets. 
 
Any employer using vehicle telematics will be collecting data about both the vehicle and the 
individual  employee  using  that  vehicle.  This  data  can  include  not  just  the  location  of  the 
vehicle (and, hence, the employee) collected by basic GPS tracking systems, but, depending 
on  the  technology,  a  wealth  of  other  information  including  driving  behaviour.  Certain 

                                                 
19 See the above referenced case of Köpke v Germany; additionally, it should also be noted that in some 
jurisdictions the installation of systems such as CCTV for the purpose of proving unlawful conduct has been 
ruled permissible; see the case of Bershka in the Constitutional Court of Spain. 
20 Moreover, under the GDPR, processing of biometric data for identification purposes must be based on an 
exception provided by Art. 9(2). 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

86 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

technologies can also enable continuous monitoring both of the vehicle and the driver (eg, 
event data recorders). 
 
An  employer  might  be  obliged  to  install  tracking  technology  in  vehicles  to  demonstrate 
compliance  with other  legal  obligations,  e.g.  to ensure  the  safety of employees  who  drive 
those vehicles. The employer may also have a legitimate interest in being able to locate the 
vehicles  at  any  time.  Even  if  employers  would  have  a  legitimate  interest  to  achieve  these 
purposes, it should first be assessed whether the processing for these purposes is necessary, 
and whether the actual implementation complies with the principles of proportionality and 
subsidiarity.  Where  private  use  of  a  professional  vehicle  is  allowed,  the  most  important 
measure an employer can take to ensure compliance with these principles is the offering of 
an  opt-out:  the  employee  in  principle  should  have  the  option  to  temporarily  turn  off 
location  tracking  when  special  circumstances  justify  this  turning  off,  such  as  a  visit  to  a 
doctor.  This  way,  the  employee  can  on  its  own  initiative  protect  certain  location  data  as 
private.  The  employer  must  ensure  that  the  collected  data  are  not  used  for  illegitimate 
further processing, such as the tracking and evaluation of employees. 
 
The  employer  must  also  clearly  inform  the  employees  that  a  tracking  device  has  been 
installed  in  a  company  vehicle  that  they  are  driving,  and  that  their  movements  are  being 
recorded whilst they are using that vehicle (and that, depending on the technology involved, 
their  driving  behaviour  may  also  be  recorded).  Preferably  such  information  should  be 
displayed prominently in every car, within eyesight of the driver. 
 
It  is  possible  that  employees  may  use  company  vehicles  outside  working  hours,  e.g.  for 
personal use, depending on the specific policies governing the use of those vehicles. Given 
the  sensitivity  of  location  data,  it  is  unlikely  that  there  is  a  legal  basis  for  monitoring  the 
locations  of  employees’  vehicles  outside  agreed  working  hours.  However,  should  such  a 
necessity  exist,  an  implementation  that  would  be  proportionate  to  the  risks  should  be 
considered. For example, this could mean that, in order to prevent car theft, the location of 
the car is not registered outside working hours, unless the vehicle leaves a widely defined 
circle (region or even country). In addition, the location would only be shown in a “break-
the-glass” way—the employer would only activate the “visibility” of the location, accessing 
the data already stored by the system, when the vehicle leaves a predefined region. 
 
As stated in the WP29 Opinion 13/2011 on Geolocation services on smart mobile devices21: 
 
 
“Vehicle tracking devices are not staff tracking devices. Their function is to track or monitor 
the location of the vehicles in which they are installed. Employers should not regard them as 
devices to track or monitor the behaviour or the whereabouts of drivers or other staff, for 
example by sending alerts in relation to speed of vehicle.” 
 
Further, as stated in the WP29  Opinion 5/2005  on the  use of location  data with a view to 
providing value-added services22: 
 

                                                 
21 WP29, Opinion 13/2011 on Geolocation services on smart mobile devices, WP 185, 16 May 2011, url: 
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2011/wp185_en.pdf 
22 WP29, Opinion 5/2005 on the use of location data with a view to providing value-added services, WP 115, 25 
November 2005, url: http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2005/wp115_en.pdf 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

87 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

“Processing  location  data  can  be  justified  where  it  is  done  as  part  of  monitoring  the 
transport  of  people  or  goods  or  improving  the  distribution  of  resources  for  services  in 
scattered locations (e.g. planning operations in real time), or where a security objective is 
being pursued in relation to the employee himself or to the goods or vehicles in his charge. 
Conversely, the Working Party considers data processing to be excessive where employees 
are free to organise their travel arrangements as they wish or where it is done for the sole 
purpose of monitoring an employee's work where this can be monitored by other means.” 
 
 

5.7.1 

EVENT DATA RECORDERS 

 
Event  data  recorders  provide  an  employer  with  the  technical  capability  of  processing  a 
significant amount of personal data about the employees that drive company vehicles. Such 
devices  are  increasingly  being  placed  into  vehicles  with  the  goal  to  record  video,  possibly 
including sound, in  case of an accident. These systems are able to record at certain times, 
e.g.  in  response  to  sudden  braking,  abrupt  directional  change  or  accidents,  where  the 
moments immediately preceding the incident are stored, but they can also be set to monitor 
continuously.  This  information  can  be  used  subsequently  to  observe  and  review  an 
individual’s  driving  behaviour  with  the  aim  of  improving  it.  Moreover,  many  of  these 
systems  include  GPS  to  track  the  location  of  the  vehicle  in  real-time  and  other  details 
corresponding  to  the  driving  (such  as  the  vehicle  speed)  can  be  also  stored  for  further 
processing. 
 
These  devices  have  become  particularly  prevalent  among  organisations  whose  activities 
involve transport or have significant vehicle fleets. However, the deployment of event data 
recorders  can  only  be  lawful  if  there  is  a  necessity  to  process  the  ensuing  personal  data 
about  the  employee  for  a  legitimate  purpose,  and  the  processing  complies  with  the 
principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. 
 
 
Example 
A  transport  company equips  all  of  its  vehicles  with  a  video  camera  inside  the  cabin  which 
records  sound  and  video.  The  purpose  of  processing  these  data  is  to  improve  the  driving 
skills of the employees. The cameras are configured to retain recordings whenever incidents 
such  as  sudden  braking  or  abrupt  directional  change  take  place.  The  company  assumes  it 
has  a  legal  ground  for  the  processing  in  its  legitimate  interest  under  Article  7(f)  of  the 
Directive, to protect the safety of its employees and other drivers’ safety. 
 
However,  the  legitimate  interest  of  the  company  to  monitor  the  drivers  does  not  prevail 
over  the  rights  of  those  drivers  to  the  protection  of  their  personal  data.  The  continuous 
monitoring  of  employees  with  such  cameras  constitutes  a  serious  interference  with  their 
right of privacy. There are other methods (e.g., the installation of equipment that prevents 
the  use  of  mobile  phones)  as  well  as  other  safety  systems  like  an  advanced  emergency 
braking system or a lane departure warning system that can be used for the prevention of 
vehicle  accidents  which  may  be  more  appropriate.  Furthermore,  such  a  video  has  a  high 
probability  of  resulting  in  the  processing  of  personal  data  of  third  parties  (such  as 
pedestrians)  and,  for  such  a  processing,  the  legitimate  interest  of  the  company  is  not 
sufficient to justify the processing. 
 
 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

88 

 
 
 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

5.8 

Processing operations involving disclosure of employee data to third parties 

 
It  has  become  increasingly  common  for  companies  to  transmit  their  employees’  data  to 
their  customers  for  the  purpose  of  ensuring  reliable  service  provision.  These  data  may  be 
quite excessive depending on the scope of services provided (e.g. an employee’s photo may 
be included). However, employees are not in a position, given the imbalance of power, to 
give free consent to the processing of their personal data by their employer, and if the data 
processing is not proportional, the employer does not have a legal ground. 
 
Example: 
 
A delivery company sends its customers an e-mail with a link to the name and the location 
of the deliverer (employee). The company also intended to provide a passport photo of the 
deliverer.  The  company  assumed  it  would  have  a  legal  ground  for  the  processing  in  its 
legitimate  interest  (Article  7(f)  of  the  Directive),  allowing  the  customer  to  check  if  the 
deliverer is indeed the right person. 
 
However,  it  is  not  necessary  to  provide  the  name  and  the  photo  of  the  deliverer  to  the 
customers.  Since  there  is  no  other  legitimate  ground  for  this  processing,  the  delivery 
company is not allowed to provide these personal data to customers. 
 

5.9 

Processing operations involving international transfers of HR and other 
employee data 

 
Employers  are  increasingly  using  cloud-based  applications  and  services,  such  as  those 
designed for the handling of HR-data as well as online office applications. The use of most of 
these  applications  will  result  in  the  international  transfer  of  data  from  and  concerning 
employees.  As previously outlined  in  Opinion  08/2001,  Art.  25 of the  Directive  states that 
transfers of personal data to a third country outside the EU can take place only where that 
country  ensures  an  adequate  level  of  protection.  Whatever  the  basis,  the  transfer  should 
satisfy the provisions of the Directive. 
 
It should thus be ensured that these provisions concerning the international transfer of data 
are  complied  with.  WP29  re-states  its  previous  position  that  it  is  preferable  to  rely  on 
adequate protection rather than the derogations listed in Art. 26 of the DPD; where consent 
is  relied  on  it  must  be  specific,  unambiguous  and  freely-given.  However,  it  should  also  be 
ensured that the data shared outside the EU/EEA, and subsequent access by other entities 
within the group, remains limited to the minimum necessary for the intended purposes. 
 
 

6. 

Conclusions and Recommendations 

 

6.1 

Fundamental rights 

 
The  contents  of  communications  above,  as  well  as  the  traffic  data  relating  to  those 
communications,  enjoy 
fundamental  rights  protections  as  “analogue” 
communications. 
 
Electronic communications made from business premises may be covered by the notions of 
“private  life”  and  “correspondence”  within  the  meaning  of  Article  8  paragraph  1  of  the 
European Convention. Based on the current Data Protection Directive employers may only 

the  same 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

89 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

collect the data for legitimate purposes, with the processing taking place under appropriate 
conditions  (e.g.,  proportionate  and  necessary,  for  a  real  and  present  interest,  in  a  lawful, 
articulated and transparent manner), with a legal basis for the processing of personal data 
collected from or generated through electronic communications. 
 
The fact that an employer has the ownership of the electronic means does not rule out the 
right  of  employees  to  secrecy  of  their  communications,  related  location  data  and 
correspondence.  The  tracking  of  the  location  of  employees  through  their  self-owned  or 
company issued devices should be limited to where it is strictly necessary for a legitimate 
 
  
purpose. Certainly, in the case of Bring Your Own Device it is important that employees are 
given  the  opportunity  to  shield  their  private  communications  from  any  work-related 
monitoring. 
 

6.2 

Consent; legitimate interest 

 
Employees are almost never in a position to freely give, refuse or revoke consent, given the 
dependency that results from the employer/employee relationship. Given the imbalance of 
power,  employees  can  only  give  free  consent  in  exceptional  circumstances,  when  no 
consequences at all are connected to acceptance or rejection of an offer. 
 
The legitimate interest of employers can sometimes be invoked as a legal ground, but only if 
the  processing  is  strictly  necessary  for  a  legitimate  purpose  and  the  processing  complies 
with  the  principles  of  proportionality  and  subsidiarity.  A  proportionality  test  should  be 
conducted prior to the deployment of any monitoring tool to consider whether all data are 
necessary, whether this processing outweighs the general privacy rights that employees also 
have in the workplace and what measures must be taken to ensure that infringements on 
the  right  to  private  life  and  the  right  to  secrecy  of  communications  are  limited  to  the 
minimum necessary. 
 

6.3 

Transparency 

 
Effective communication should be provided to employees concerning any monitoring that 
takes place, the purposes for this monitoring and the circumstances, as well as possibilities 
for employees to prevent their data being captured by monitoring technologies. Policies and 
rules  concerning  legitimate  monitoring  must  be  clear  and  readily  accessible.  The  Working 
Party  recommends  involving  a  representative  sample  of  employees  in  the  creation  and 
evaluation of such rules and policies as most monitoring has the potential to infringe on the 
private lives of employees. 
 

6.4 

Proportionality and data minimisation 

 
Data  processing  at  work  must  be  a  proportionate  response  to  the  risks  faced  by  an 
employer. For example, internet misuse can be detected without the necessity of analysing 
website content. If misuse can be prevented (e.g., by using web filters) the employer has no 
general right to monitor. 
 
Further,  a  blanket  ban  on  communication  for  personal  reasons  is  impractical  and 
enforcement  may  require  a  level  of  monitoring  that  may  be  disproportionate.  Prevention 
should be given much more weight than detection--the interests of the employer are better 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

90 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

served by preventing internet misuse through technical means than by expending resources 
in detecting misuse. 
 
The information registered from the ongoing monitoring, as well as the information that is 
shown to the employer, should be minimized as much as possible. Employees should have 
the  possibility  to  temporarily  shut  off  location  tracking,  if  justified  by  the  circumstances. 
Solutions  that  for  example  track  vehicles  can  be  designed  to  register  the  position  data 
without presenting it to the employer. 
 
Employers must take the principle of data minimisation into account when deciding on the 
deployment  of  new  technologies.  The  information  should  be  stored  for  the  minimum 
amount  of  time  needed  with  a  retention  period  specified.  Whenever  information  is  no 
longer needed it should be deleted. 
 

6.5 

Cloud services, online applications and international transfers 

 
Where  employees  are  expected  to  use  online  applications  which  process  personal  data 
(such  as  online  office  applications),  employers  should  consider  enabling  employees  to 
designate  certain  private  spaces  to  which  the  employer  may  not  gain  access  under  any 
circumstances, such as a private mail or document folder. 
 
The use of most applications in the cloud will result in the international transfer of employee 
data. It should be ensured that personal data transferred to a third country outside the EU 
takes place only where an adequate level of protection is ensured and that the data shared 
outside  the  EU/EEA  and  subsequent  access  by  other  entities  within  the  group  remains 
limited to the minimum necessary for the intended purposes. 
 

* * * 

Done in Brussels, on 8 June 2017 

For the Working Party, 
The Chairwoman 
Isabelle FALQUE-PIERROTIN 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

91 

 
 
 

 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

Annex III 

Right to data portability 

 
1.  How can the data controller identify the data subject before answering his request?  
 
There are no prescriptive requirements to be found in the GDPR on how to authenticate the 
data subject. Nevertheless, Article 12(2) of the GDPR states that the data controller shall not 
refuse to act on request of a data subject for exercising his or her rights (including the right 
to data portability) unless it is processing personal data for a purpose that does not require 
the identification of a data subject and it can demonstrate that it is not able to identify the 
data  subject.  However,  as  per  Article  11(2),  in  such  circumstances  the  data  subject  can 
provide  more  information  to  enable  his  or  her  identification.  Additionally,  Article  12(6) 
provides  that  where  a  data  controller  has  reasonable  doubts  about  the  identity  of  a  data 
subject,  it  can  request further  information to  confirm the  data  subject’s  identity.  Where  a 
data subject does provide additional information enabling his or her identification, the data 
controller  shall  not  refuse  to  act  on  the  request.  Where  information  and  data  collected 
online  is  linked  to  pseudonyms  or  unique  identifiers,  data  controllers  can  implement 
appropriate  procedures  enabling  an  individual  to  make  a  data  portability  request  and 
receive  the  data  relating  to  him  or  her.  In  any  case,  data  controllers  must  implement  an 
authentication  procedure  in  order  to  strongly  ascertain  the  identity  of  the  data  subject 
requesting  his or  her  personal data  or  more  generally  exercising the  rights  granted  by the 
GDPR.  
 
In many cases, such authentication procedures are already in place. For example, usernames 
and  passwords,  including  unique  generated  codes  on  mobile  devices,  are  often  used  to 
allow  individuals  to  access  their  data  in  their  email  accounts,  social  networking  accounts, 
and  accounts  used  for  various  other  services,  some  of  which  individuals  choose  to  use 
without revealing their full name and identity.  
 
If  the  size  of  data  requested  by  the  data  subject  makes  transmission  via  the  internet 
problematic, rather than potentially allowing for an extended time period of a maximum of 
three  months  to  comply  with  the  request,  the  data  controller  may  also  need  to  consider 
alternative means of providing the data such as using streaming or saving to a CD, DVD or 
other physical media or allowing for the personal data to be transmitted directly to another 
data controller (as per Article 20(2) of the GDPR where technically feasible).  
 
 
2.  What is the expected data format?  
 
The GDPR places requirements on data controllers to provide the personal data requested 
by the individual in a format which supports re-use. Specifically, Article 20(1) of the GDPR 
states  that  the  personal  data  must  be  provided  “in  a  structured,  commonly  used  and 
machine-readable format”. Recital 68 provides a further clarification that this format should 
be interoperable, a term that is defined in the EU 23as:  
 

                                                 
23 Article 2 of Decision No 922/2009/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 
on interoperability solutions for European public administrations (ISA) OJ L 260, 03.10.2009, p. 20  
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

92 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

“the  ability  of  disparate  and  diverse  organisations  to  interact  towards  mutually  beneficial 
and agreed common goals, involving the sharing of information and knowledge between the 
organisations,  through  the  business  processes  they  support,  by  means  of  the  exchange  of 
data between their respective ICT systems.”  
 
The  terms  “structured”,  “commonly  used”  and  “machine-readable”  are  a  set  of  minimal 
requirements that should facilitate the interoperability of the data format provided by the 
data  controller.  In  that  way,  “structured,  commonly  used  and  machine  readable”  are 
specifications for the means, whereas interoperability is the desired outcome.  
 
Recital 21 of the Directive 2013/37/EU defines “machine readable” as:  
 
“a  file  format  structured  so  that  software  applications  can  easily  identify,  recognize  and 
extract  specific  data,  including  individual  statements  of  fact,  and  their  internal  structure. 
Data  encoded  in  files  that  are  structured  in  a  machine-readable  format  are  machine-
readable  data.  Machine-readable  formats  can  be  open  or  proprietary;  they  can  be  formal 
standards  or  not.  Documents  encoded  in  a  file  format  that  limits  automatic  processing, 
because the data cannot, or cannot easily, be extracted from them, should not be considered 
to  be  in  a  machine-readable  format.  Member  States  should  where  appropriate  encourage 
the use of open, machine-readable formats.”  
 
Given the wide range of potential data types that could be processed by a data controller, 
the GDPR does not impose specific recommendations on the format of the personal data to 
be provided.  The most appropriate format  will differ  across  sectors  and  adequate formats 
may already exist, but the format chosen should be interpretable. Formats that are subject 
to costly licensing constraints would not be considered an adequate approach.  
 
Recital  68  clarifies  that  “The  data  subject's  right  to  transmit  or  receive  personal  data 
concerning  him  or  her  should  not  create  an  obligation  for  the  controllers  to  adopt  or 
maintain  processing  systems  which  are  technically  compatible.”  Thus,  portability  aims  to 
produce  interoperable  systems,  not  compatible  systems.    ISO/IEC  2382-01  defines 
interoperability  as  follows:  “The  capability  to  communicate,  execute  programs,  or  transfer 
data among various functional units in a manner that requires the user to have little or no 
knowledge of the unique characteristics of those units.”  
 
Personal  data  are  expected  to  be  provided  in  formats,  which  have  a  high  level  of 
abstraction. As such, data portability implies an additional layer of data processing by data 
controllers, in order to extract data from the platform and filter out personal data outside 
the  scope  of  portability  (such  as  user  passwords,  payment  data,  biometric  patterns,  etc.). 
This  additional  data  processing  will  be  considered  as  an  accessory  to  the  main  data 
processing,  since  it  is  not  performed  to  achieve  a  new  purpose  defined  by  the  data 
controller.  
 
Data  controllers  should provide  as  many  metadata with  the  data  as possible  at  the  best 
possible  level  of  granularity,  which  preserves  the  precise  meaning  of  exchanged 
information.  As  an  example,  providing  an  individual  with  .pdf  versions  of  an  email  inbox 
would  not  be  sufficiently  structured.  E-mail  data  must  be  provided  in  a  format  which 
preserves  all  the  meta-data,  to  allow  the  effective  re-use  of  the  data.  As  such,  when 
selecting  a  data  format  in  which  to  provide  the  personal  data,  the  data  controller  should 
consider how this format would impact or hinder the individual’s right to re-use the data. In 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

93 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

cases  where  a  data  controller  is  able  to  provide  choices  to  the  data  subject  regarding  the 
preferred format of the personal data a clear explanation of the impact of the choice should 
be  provided.  However,  processing  additional  meta-data  on  the  only  assumption  that  they 
might be needed or wanted to answer a data portability request poses no legitimate ground 
for such processing.  
 
  
3.   How do you deal with a large or complex personal data collection?  
 
The GDPR does not explain how to address the challenge of responding where a large data 
collection,  a  complex  data  structure  or  other  technical  issues  arise,  which  might  create 
difficulties for data controllers or data subjects.  
 
However, in all cases, it is crucial that the individual is in a position to fully understand the 
definition, schema and structure of the personal data, which could be provided by the data 
controller. For instance, data could first be provided in a summarised form using dashboards 
allowing  the  data  subject  to  port  subsets  of  the  personal  data  rather  than  the  entire 
catalogue.  The  data  controller  should  provide  an  overview  “in  a  concise,  transparent, 
intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language” preferably (see Article 
12(1)) of the GDPR) in such a way that data subject can use software applications to easily 
identify,  recognize  and  process  specific  data  from  it.  One  of  the  ways  in  which  a  data 
controller  can  answer  requests  for  data  portability  is  by offering  an  appropriately  secured 
and documented Application Programming Interface (API). This would enable individuals to 
make  requests  for  their  personal  data  via  their  own  or  third-party  software  or  grant 
permission for others to do so on their behalf (including another data controller) as specified 
in Article 20(2) of the GDPR. By granting access to data via an API, it may be possible to offer 
a  more  sophisticated access  system  that  enables  individuals  to  make  subsequent  requests 
for data, either as a full download or as a delta function containing only changes since the 
last download, without these additional requests being onerous on the data controller.  
 
 
4.  How can portable data be secured?  
 
In general, the data controllers should guarantee the “appropriate security of the personal 
data,  including  protection  against  unauthorised  or  unlawful  processing  and  against 
accidental  loss,  destruction  or  damage,  using  appropriate  technical  or  organisational 
measures (‘integrity and confidentiality’)” according to Article 5(1)(f) of the GDPR.  
 
However, the transmission of personal data to the data subject may also raise some security 
issues:  
 
As  data  portability  aims  to  get  personal  data  out  of  the  information  system  of  the  data 
controller, the transmission may become a possible  source of risk regarding those data (in 
particular of data breaches during the transmission). The data controller shall implement all 
the security measures needed to ensure that personal data is securely transmitted (e.g. by 
use  of  encryption)  to  the  right  destination  (e.g.  by  use  of  additional  authentication 
information). Such security measures mustn’t be obstructive in nature and must not prevent 
users from exercising their rights, e.g by imposing additional costs.  
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

94 

 
 
 

 

Malta Bankers’ Association 

5.  How  do  you  help  users  in  securing  the  storage  of  their  personal  data  in  their  own 

systems?  

 
By  retrieving  their  personal  data  from  an  online  service,  there  is  always  also  the  risk  that 
users  may  store  them  in  a  less  secured  system  than  the  one  provided  by  the  service.  The 
data subject should be made aware of this in order to take steps to protect the information 
they  have  received.  The  data  controller  could  also,  as  a  best  practice,  recommend 
appropriate format(s) and encryption measures to help the data subject to achieve this goal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Data Protection Guidelines for Banks 
 

 

95 

 

