 

 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

February 7, 2022

 

 Support for Safer Internet Day on February 8th:

“Privacy goes to school” cooperates with the

LfDI Baden-Württemberg

 

the

by the professional association of data protection officers

Germany's (BvD) e.V. founded initiative "Data Protection

goes to school" uses in cooperation with the LfDI Ba-

den-Württemberg the Safer Internet Day (SID) to

learners for the safe use of modern communi-

to sensitize cationic media.

 

February 8th is Safer Internet Day. The EU initiative clicks

fe organizes the international day of action and calls annually

to come up with their own events for online

Safety and a better Internet for children and young people

che to engage. This year's motto is

"Together for a better Internet".

  

The initiative "Privacy goes to school" takes action

on the occasion of joint awareness-raising events

with the data protection supervisory authority from Baden-

- 2 -

to initiate Württemberg. The participating schools

the February lessons on safe handling

with personal data offered on the Internet. be there

around 700 students throughout Germany for simple behavior

training rules on the Internet.

  

dr Stefan Brink, State Commissioner for Data Protection and

freedom of information Baden-Württemberg: “Digital media

agree significantly

the

everyday

from

children

and youngsters. Our speakers go to schools,

to deal with the young people about the huge opportunities, but

also to talk about the risks of digital technologies.

The response was always great - we are happy to share our

sen on and look forward to the many questions that young

people face us.”

  

During their lessons, the employees of the recording

supervisory authorities on the material of “Privacy goes to

School” back, the further development of which is also supported by

klicksafe and financially supported by the DATEV Foundation Future

was supported.

 

“The support of the regulator helps us a lot, our

Mission for the protection of personal data continues in the

to wear in classrooms. The more attention we pay to that

subject of security in the network, the more reconnaissance

work we can do in the end. For that we are very grateful-

bar,” emphasizes Rudi Kramer, spokesman for the initiative.

  

Due to the pandemic, on-site operations at schools were

albeit severely restricted. To even without going to school

to be able to deliver suitable impulse lectures, the otherwise

Topics explained in the classrooms in short videos

implemented. "Data protection - easily explained" is what it's called in the

format released in January. “The short video clips can

used independently by the schools. So are we

more independent of personal school visits, but offer

sufficient information at the same time,” explains Rudi

- 3 -

Chandler. The videos are also in collaboration with Da-

ten protection supervisory authorities from Baden-Württemberg, Hesse

sen, Bavaria and Thuringia emerged and are under

www.datenschutz-leicht-erklaert.de available for download

tion

 

All events of the initiative “Data protection goes to

School" and the events about the LfDI Baden-

Württemberg as part of the SID 2022 are on the

Map of Germany from klicksafe: www.klicksafe.de/karte-sid-

2022

 

Further information:

The professional association of data protection officers

lands (BvD) e.V. issued an identical press release

sends.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

