B

i
l

i.e

:
 

l

i

B
H
m
a
y
e
right
f
O
t
O
G
right
a
fi
e
 
-
s
t
O
c
k
a
i.e
O
b
e
.
c
O
m

.

Our freedoms:
Use data – protect data

Guidance –
3G proof in
employment relationship
(§ 28b paragraph 1 and 3 IfSG)

3G proof in

employment relationship
(§ 28b paragraph 1 and 3 IfSG)

Orientation guide of the LfDI

Published by
State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Dr. Stefan Brink
Lautenschlagerstrasse 20, 70173 Stuttgart
Telephone: 0711/615541-0
Fax: 0711/615541-15
https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de
Email: poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de
Mastodon: https://bawu.social/@lfdi
PGP Fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962
Status: 27.11. 2021

1. Background

The vaccination or test status of employees is particularly worthy of protection
date of health (Article 9 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR).
With the amendment of the Infection Protection Act (IfSG) of November 22, 2021, the Federal
legislator with the revised § 28b IfSG (“Nationally uniform protective
measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease-2019
(COVID-19)") a regulation was introduced, which for the first time comprehensive and concrete
te employer powers and obligations for collection and processing
standardized based on employee health data. In this range, that's one
Novelty for labor and data protection law; also the new ones
Rules accompanied by threats of fines.

It would have been all the more important to have a clear, understandable and implementable rule
to meet lung – unfortunately this did not succeed. The Federal Ministry's attempt
for work and social affairs to be sharpened using FAQ lists is not convincing; of the
Authorization in § 28b paragraph 6 IfSG to issue a more specific regulation
This option has not been used to date either.

Therefore, the state commissioner for data protection and information
Baden-Württemberg is the name of this guide for workplaces that do not
the particularly vulnerable facilities mentioned in § 28b paragraph 2 IfSG and
company owned, available. You cannot definitively answer all open questions
answer, but will be answered by both the employer side and the employee
ten support for the implementation of the 3G rules in the workplace. For last
Only federal legislators and legislators can provide clarity – they should
in terms of the conscientious employer and the protection of sensitive employees
do dates.

1 Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, workplace infection control, answers to the most frequently asked questions:
https://www.bmas.de/DE/Corona/Fragen-und-Antworten/Fragen-und-Antworten-ASVO/faq-corona-asvo.html; 1/1/20;
Status: 22.11.2021.

3

2. Core statements of § 28b IfSG
 
 

• If there are physical contacts2 between employers and
with each other or with third parties cannot be excluded
according to § 28b paragraph 1 sentence 1 IfSG, only employees
left the workplace with a 3G status (vaccinated, recovered, tested).
enter. According to § 28b paragraph 3 IfSG, the employer makes a control
obligation, compliance with which you have to document.

 

 

• For the first time, the law grants employers with § 28b IfSG
nationwide legal basis for a 3G access regulation at work
workplace and an express authorization to process.

• Even after the revised § 28b IfSG came into force, there is no
However, the nursing and healing industry does not have a comprehensive information and
Employer's right to ask questions about the vaccination/recovery status of the
busy. Employers must now ask their employees one
require proof that one of the 3Gs is met; when testing the 3G
status, however, it must be borne in mind that employees are not
location of a specific proof are required. workers can
Rather, they are free to decide which proof they want to provide. in particular
special can also be vaccinated and recovered instead of an immunization
proof of a daily updated test proof. The employer
is therefore not authorized to require employees to specifically name the
to request the respective vaccination status (which of the 3 G applies?).

3. Legal basis for processing

Legal basis for the processing of health-related data
with the access regulations to a workplace according to § 2 para. 1 and 2 work
Site Ordinance is Article 6 Paragraph 1 Clause 1 Letter c, Article 9 Paragraph 2 Letter i of the Data Protection
Basic Regulation (DS-GVO) in conjunction with § 28b paragraph 1 sentence 1, paragraph 3 IfSG. 4. Range of
Processing authority and control options of the employer.

2 The term “physical contact” only appears at this point in the Infection Protection Act. One will not use this term
physical contact in the narrower sense, but must relate to all encounters between people (cf. BT-Drs. 20/89, p. 6:
"meeting other people"), in which transmission of the virus SARS-Cov-2 by way of aerosol or droplet
Infection cannot be completely ruled out.

4

4. Scope of processing authority and

Employer control options

§ 28b IfSG leaves unanswered essential questions about the scope of the control authority
nis, the scope of the necessary documentation and regarding the process of the
concrete controls of 3G status.

 
 
 
 
 

• Are visual inspections sufficient to meet the inspection obligation?
• Does the validity of the evidence also have to be checked?
• Which group of people may carry out the checks?
• Is a comparison with identification documents necessary?
• Can the immunization status be saved by the employer, if necessary

how long?

According to § 28b paragraph 3 sentence 1 IfSG, compliance with the obligations from paragraph 1 sentence
1 (namely, in particular, to enter the workplace only if they have vaccinated
sons, recovered persons or tested persons and proof of vaccination,
carry proof of recovery or proof of a test with them for control purposes
keep available or have deposited with the employer) "through verification
to monitor trolls daily”. This means that follow-up labor law questions and con-
sequences linked to the query of the 3G status, so that a consolidated con-
role must take place.

a) Visual inspection at the gate

§ 28b IfSG initially leaves open the form in which the controls are to be carried out.
A check upon entry at the company entrance, for example, seems permissible and sensible.

The wording of the standard suggests that a visual inspection is fundamental
is sufficient. Because the employees comply with the regulations to be checked
obligations from paragraph 1 even if they "have proof of vaccination, a gene
senenproof or a test proof within the meaning of § 2 No. 2, No. 5 or No. 7 of the
COVID-19 Protective Measures Exemption Ordinance, for control
keep available or have deposited with the employer”. The employer can
therefore do not require them to "deposit" the relevant evidence.
The employees are also not obliged to provide proof in the form of a digital
to keep a legible certificate. Because according to § 28b paragraph 1 sentence 1 expressly suffices
proof as defined in Section 2 No. 2, 5 or 7 of the COVID-19 protective measures
acceptance regulation. However, the proofs mentioned there can all be “in German”
shear, English, French, Italian or Spanish language in embodied
or digital form”. As far as the report of the main committee of the

5

Bundestag was carried out3:

 

 “Secure control is primarily guaranteed when it is carried out digitally
appropriate technical solutions (e.g. the CovPass app) are implemented."

it cannot be concluded from this that the employer can demand that the
must provide the proof electronically - for example via an app -
provide proof in paper form must remain possible at all times.

Only the employer's authorized persons (see b below)
may have access to the evidence and the control documentation. open
ne lists or survey interviews in which other employees or external
eavesdrop, as well as those that can be seen by others, the 3G
indicates "traffic lights" for the survey.

If the employee is unknown to the controlling employer, an additional
Additional visual comparison of the 3G proof with a works ID card or - if
no factory ID card exists - with an official ID document obvious.
It is not clear from the Infection Protection Act whether it is also necessary.

Such ambiguities cannot be at the expense of the obligated employer,
a state sanction can therefore be attached to the failure to match a
Identity document not be linked. Since the employer at the same time
In accordance with the GDPR (here: the principle of data minimization Art. 5 Para. 1 lit. c
DS-GVO) has to be observed, at this point no more than a random sample
review is required. The Federal
legislators clearly set norms.

 

 This is not opposed to the fact that in § 6a of the ordinance of the state government
Baden-Württemberg about infection protection measures against the
Spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (Corona Ordinance - CoronaVO) from 15.
September 2021 (in the version valid from November 24, 2021),
that the control of test, vaccination or recovery evidence "jointly
by inspecting an official identity document in the original
follow" and that vaccination certificates have to be presented in a digitally readable form
be. Because these regulations only apply to those listed in Part 2 of the Corona Ordinance
tion-regulated submission obligations of visitors,
participants, etc., but not for the employee relationship, for the
the 3-G controls in § 28b IfSG are conclusively regulated in this respect.4

3 DBT-Drs 20/89, November 17, 2021, p. 18.
4 See also the justification for the third amending ordinance of November 23, 2021 of the Corona Ordinance of September 15
2021, available at https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.de/fileadmin/redaktion/instrumente/PDF/Coronainfos/211123_Begruen-
dung_zur_dritten_AenderungsVO_zur_11.CoronaVO.pdf, on Section 18 CoronaVO: "After the operational testing of non-immunizable
1 and 3 IfSG are finally regulated under federal law in § 28b Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 3
operational testing of employees.”

6

The same applies to the scope of the controls: although the legal
lien that an “implementation that is as comprehensive and complete as possible
the obligation to provide evidence of the status vaccinated, recovered or tested in the
to ensure"5 is, an obligation for full control results from the word
but not according to the law. "Without gaps" are certainly those in § 28b paragraph 1
Sentence 1 IfSG stipulated entry ban without 3G status and the related
Obligation to provide evidence - whether this also applies to the employer's obligation to verify evidence
applies leave the wording of the law as open as the legislative materials.
In this respect, the report of the Main Committee of the Bundestag does not incompletely
loose, but only "efficient and therefore daily control mechanisms"6. A duty
this is not associated with the daily full inspection of all employees;
on the contrary: The focus of these controls is on the daily proof
tested via updating the status" - which probably means that the con-
trolls of the status vaccinated or recovered do not take place in the same intensive way
got to. And also a random partial inspection carried out every day
a "daily check" within the meaning of Section 28 b (3) IfSG.

This lack of clarity is also unfortunate for everyone involved: An employer who
refrains from carrying out a full daily check, runs the risk of violating the
being accused of having to be accused of the protection against infection – an employer who daily
carries out full controls runs the risk of violating data protection
Basic Regulation (because of unnecessary data collection).
to have to. In view of these obligations, the employer may only precisely
control what he needs to control - and no more. Given the-
State sanctions probably separate these (no fault of our own) obligations here as well
out; the fine of § 73 paragraph 1a number 11d IfSG ("who intentionally
or negligently ... contrary to § 28b paragraph 3 sentence 1, compliance with a
ten obligation not or not properly monitored”) appears in this respect at least
not sufficiently determined.

b) Selection of suitable authorized employees

The Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs assumes that the
donor “in compliance with the requirements for employee data protection
[Can] also delegate control to suitable employees or third parties.”7

5 See the report of the Main Committee of the Bundestag, op. a. O.
6 Bundestag printed paper 20/89, November 17, 2021, p. 18.
7 Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, workplace infection control Answers to the most frequently asked questions:
https://www.bmas.de/DE/Corona/Fragen-und-Antworten/Fragen-und-Antworten-ASVO/faq-corona-asvo.html; 1.1.10.

7

In principle, this corresponds to the delegation's understanding of labor law
of concrete employer-side obligations, which now the employer
through the obligation to carry out daily checks. The circle of control
authorized persons must be limited to a small group of people who
about appropriate sensitization in handling personal data
has. This ability is regularly demonstrated through participation in training courses
took to prove. In addition, the employer has the persons authorized to inspect
to maintain confidentiality when dealing with health data.

Primarily, employees in the human resources department or personnel
circles with regard to the confidentiality of personnel matters
are already sworn to secrecy. In addition, task lists
to avoid lisions and conflicts of interest; who about questions of continued wage
8 or home office agreements should not also be used as a control
act person. This means that the direct or additional superior of the employee
not an ideal controller.

Especially for SMEs and craft businesses that do not have external service
providers, gate services or have their own human resources department
from the size of the company, special features regarding the suitability of the
fugitive staff.

Based on the operational and local conditions, a control
should therefore be alerted to exceptional cases by employees with managerial
limited and only take place if the employees employed for this purpose
clear and transparent reporting channels exist and these are complied with
will. Employers should have appropriate written work instructions for the
authorized persons, in which the data protection compliant environment
process is clearly and comprehensibly described with the control documentation.

It must also be taken into account that the control obligation also applies to "collective
porten" takes effect, since employers "transport several employees to work
place or from the place of work" may only be carried out if appropriate
Checks have been carried out, see Section 28b (1) IfSG.

8 Cf. on consequences under labor law: Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, Company Infection Protection Answers to the
most frequently asked questions:
https://www.bmas.de/DE/Corona/Fragen-und-Antworten/Fragen-und-Antworten-ASVO/faq-corona-asvo.html; 1.1.20.

8th

c) Voluntary deposit of immunization status

Alternatively, and in order to be exempt from the recurring check-
to be exempted, it is possible for workers to have immunity status
to prove it once to your employer and save it there
to let. In this respect, employees are free to grant their employer the right
ment to document that an immunity status has been in place for a period of time.
In this case, the employee is “disengaged from the daily access controls
excluded” when he no longer has to submit proof of these. "This way
submission is voluntary”.9

In principle, no differentiation is required when filing according to
whether the person concerned is vaccinated or recovered. Only if the status
"recovered" should end before March 19, 2022, it may be necessary to
to save the running date (which can be indirectly recognizable that the affected
ne person is not vaccinated but recovered).

However, such storage can only take place on the basis of an express
and informed consent of the employee (Art. 6 Para. 1 S. 1 lit. a, Art. 9 Para.
2 lit. a DS-GVO, § 26 paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 sentence 2 of the Federal Data Protection Act)
follow. The filing of proof with the employer must be voluntary
follow and cannot be made mandatory by the employer. In addition
every employee is free to give their consent to storage
to revoke his vaccination status at any time without giving reasons (Art. 7 para. 3
GDPR). The employee must be informed of this (Article 7 (3) sentence 3 GDPR). To
The obligation to present the proof from § 28b paragraph 1 sentence 1 lives on after the revocation
IfSG up again.

Section 28 (3) sentence 1 IfSG requires daily monitoring of compliance with the 3G
gear control. The report of the Main Committee of the Bundestag can be found
men10 that

 

 "the technical and organizational measures of data security
[are] added, which are also sent in the companies and facilities for others
sensitive data of the employees or the persons accommodated there for display
come turn. Also digital forms of collection and storage of
Evidence are admitted to additional ways of reducing
of the operational implementation effort."

9 Applicable Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, Occupational Infection Protection Answers to the most frequently asked questions:
https://www.bmas.de/DE/Corona/Fragen-und-Antworten/Fragen-und-Antworten-ASVO/faq-corona-asvo.html; 1.1.11.
10 BT-Drs 20/89, November 17, 2021, p. 18; Emphasis by LfDI.

9

The aforementioned
ten questions from the employees responsible and suitable for storage. away
a sufficient company size and corresponding local conditions
usually only the human resources department comes in as part of the
tion in question.

Access to the stored data is fundamental to a limited, sensitive
group of people obligated to secrecy and at a central location
Position, usually in Human Resources, to be limited and only when necessary
(e.g. for access control or to supplement, correct or delete the data)
allow it.

The filing must be designed in such a way that acknowledgment of
unauthorized is excluded. This assumes that employers are within the framework
the documentation on the one hand corresponding technical-organizational measures
32 DS-GVO, such as a strictly limited access concept
the stored data sets. In particular, all are excluded in this respect
Markings on company ID cards, e.g. with a stamp for "vaccinated"
or "recover". Internally, it must be clearly regulated who has access to this data
may have.

Stored data from the 3G access control and the associated documents
tation may not be combined with other due to the applicable strict earmarking
Employee data - for example in the personnel file - are brought together.

Every employee who does not have it at work must have the 3G certificate.
donor has "deposited", always carry it with them and present it in the event of inspections by authorities
be able to show. The obligation to carry the proof with you applies before the
Background of random checks by authorities only the employee
even.

10

5. Documentation of the control

§ 28b paragraph 1, paragraph 3 IfSG also leaves open how the regular documentation
has to be done by the employer.

Employers are both in control and documentation
obliged to protect personal data of their employees within the limits of the
principle of necessity (Article 5 (1) (c) GDPR).

The starting point for considerations regarding the obligation to document is the
processing of personal data relevant proof obligation of the person responsible
according to Art. 5 Para. 2 DS-GVO. Proof of compliance with data protection
legal processing principles according to Art. 5 Para. 1 DS-GVO sets planning
Action of the controller ahead, through which in advance the data collection
and further processing systematically laid out, documented and thus verifiable
is made cash. The processing steps and their consequences must therefore be documented
compliance, but not the individual processing operations themselves.

This means for the documentation of the employer's 3G controls: He must
determine in advance how it will be used by whom and where evidence of the
employees and he must ensure compliance with these requirements on a regular basis
be confirmed by a statement from the person responsible for the control task.

The individual con-
troll processes themselves. Such an obligation does not result from the infection
Protection Act, it is replaced by subsequent statements, for example in FAQs by a
nisteriums also not justified. This also applies to the listing of the
controlled persons; such control processes could become the subject of a
Documentation requirements are made, but this has not been the case so far.

For the required regular documentation that the access requirements
are complied with by the employer, it is therefore sufficient if employees
providers have established verifiable processes in their company in which
It is written how the 3G status of the employees is checked on a daily basis
becomes.

The employer is therefore not obliged to save supporting documents
chern this is therefore not permitted under data protection law (principle of data minimization
tion, Article 5 (1) (c) GDPR). Making copies, scans or similar
Duplications of the documentation of the employees by the employer
about is illegal.

11

The documentation produced in this way without personal data from employees
used by the employer as proof of control for the controlling
hear.

Outside the particularly vulnerable facilities and companies (cf. §
23a, § 28b paragraph 2, § 36 paragraph 3 IfSG) is a differentiation between the
current immunity status (vaccinated or recovered) of employees within the framework
of the documentation is not required.

6. Retention Period

According to § 28b paragraph 7 IfSG, the provision of § 28b IfSG will come into force at the end of March 19th
2022 and the employer's obligation to carry out daily 3G checks
carry out and to document these controls on a regular basis.

The employer's control documentation does not show any personal
gene data from controlled employees, but data from with the con-
troll agents. They are also subject to data protection law
Duty of deletion.

The Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs assumes that the data from
Documentation for official controls "no later than six months after their
[are] to be deleted”11. This period only gives a maximum storage
he at which may not be exploited by companies if this is the purpose
access control or documentation is no longer required. Thereon
points out the Infection Protection Act in Section 28b Paragraph 3 Sentence 8, 2nd half-sentence ("the determination
provisions of general data protection law remain unaffected").

For any information on immunization status stored with the employer
March 19, 2022 is also decisive for the time being. In the case of revocation of the consent
The stored information is to be deleted immediately. In this case meet
the general control and access regulations are restored to employees.

The six-month retention period expressly regulated in Section 28b (3) sentence 8 IfSG
period, however, only affects the institutions specified in Section 28 b (2) sentence 1 IfSG
ments and companies and cannot be transferred across the board.

11 Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, workplace infection control Answers to the most frequently asked questions:
https://www.bmas.de/DE/Corona/Fragen-und-Antworten/Fragen-und-Antworten-ASVO/faq-corona-asvo.html; 1.1.14.

12

7. Information for employees

Employers have their employees - regardless of whether they use the 3G station
tus in a file system (cf. § 26 paragraph 7 BDSG) - via the processing
according to Art. 13 DS-GVO.

8. Further specification of the requirements

Section 28 (6) IfSG gives the Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs the
ability to issue more specific regulations by way of a legal ordinance
sen what measures employers take to implement the obligations
§ 28b IfSG have to meet and how the employees have to behave in order to
to fulfill their respective obligations arising from § 28b IfSG.

It remains to be seen if and when the Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
makes use of this authority to issue ordinances and the requirements in particular
special on the submission and documentation requirements. It will be there
the requirements of higher-ranking law, in particular the GDPR, to
have respect.

13

