DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

TO: Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) 

REPRIMAND 

OF: PSNI Headquarters 
       65 Knock Road 
       Belfast 
       BT5 6LE 

1.1 The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
reprimand to PSNI in accordance with Schedule 13(2)(c) of the Data 
Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) in respect of certain infringements of the 
DPA 2018.   

The reprimand 

1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to PSNI in 
respect of the following infringements of the DPA 2018: 

• Section 34 (3) which states that "the controller in relation to

personal data is responsible for and must be able to demonstrate
compliance."

• Section 35 (1) which states that "the processing of personal data
for any of the law enforcement purposes must be lawful and fair."

• Section 40 which states that "personal data processed for any of

the law enforcement purposes must be processed in a manner that
ensures appropriate security of the personal data, using appropriate
technical or organisational measures. (And, in this principle,
'appropriate security" includes protection against unauthorised or
unlawful processing and accidental loss, destruction or damage)."

• Section 42 (1) which states "a controller requires to have an

appropriate policy document in place when carrying our sensitive
processing in reliance on the consent of the data subject or, as the
case may be, in reliance on a condition specified in Schedule 8."

• Section 73 (1) which states "a controller may not transfer personal
data to a third country or to an international organisation unless –

1 

(a)  The three conditions set out in subsection (2) and (4) are    

(b) 

met, and 
in a case where the personal data was originally transmitted 
or otherwise made available to the controller or another 
competent authority by a member State other than the 
United Kingdom, that member State, or any person based in 
the member State, which is a competent authority for the 
purposes of the Law Enforcement Directive, has authorised 
the transfer in accordance with the law of the member State.”      

 
1.3 The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
1.4. It is considered that PSNI failed to have appropriate measures in 
place to prevent the Extradition Unit (EU) unlawfully sharing personal 
data, including criminal offence data, with the United States Department 
of Homeland Security (DHS). This had an impact on 174 data subjects. 
This unlawful sharing of personal data including basic personal identifiers 
(such as name and contact details), information recorded within an 
Electronic System for Travel Authorisation (ESTA) or VISA applications, 
information relevant to locating missing persons, criminal conviction 
data, and biometric data, had been taking place since 2016 and 
continued following the introduction of DPA 2018 until 15 October 2020. 
Members of staff within the EU had legitimate but insufficiently regulated 
access to various PSNI systems and were able to extract personal data 
which was then unlawfully shared with DHS. 

Section 34 (3) 

1.5. To enable EU staff to perform their duties, access was allowed to 
multiple systems and policies and procedures were in place to regulate 
this. However, a culture evolved where sharing was done outside of 
those processes and it is uncertain whether staff knew their practices 
were outside policy. The investigation found there was a lack of effective 
managerial oversight, had this been in place further unlawful sharing of 
personal data could have been prevented. Therefore, PSNI could not 
evidence there was adequate oversight or governance in place to 
demonstrate its accountability with the legislation. 

Section 35(1) 

1.6. PSNI's fundamental purpose is law enforcement and it is accepted 
that sharing of data is necessary to facilitate this purpose. Whilst PSNI 
had a process in place to share information with foreign law enforcement, 
such as DHS, under its data protection framework, the investigation 
found that an informal practice had evolved over a number of years 
where proactive sharing of personal data, including criminal conviction 
data, was taking place outside of that arrangement. The sharing was 
intended to alert DHS of individual's intended travel to the US and no 

 

2 

formal process was being followed. PSNI were unable to demonstrate it 
had a documented reason for proactive sharing, for example following 
the receipt of a formal request which identified a specified reason, in line 
with the data protection legislation, for sharing the personal data with 
the DHS. Data subjects would not reasonably expect their personal data 
to be used in this way which resulted in data subjects and their family 
members being refused entry to the US. 

Section 40 

1.7. Due to the nature of the personal data that was being processed, 
PSNI should have ensured a higher level of protection and safeguards 
were in place. The investigation found despite PSNI having polices and 
guidance in place on how personal data of this type should be handled 
to ensure the appropriate security of that personal data was applied, EU 
staff failed to follow the correct process. Personal data was routinely 
sent to the US via email, without encryption or password protection. 
Whist there is no evidence to suggest the personal data was 
inappropriately accessed, the investigation found that personal data was 
processed without the appropriate security being applied. 

Section 42 (1) 

1.8. Some of the personal data that was shared with DHS was biometric 
data and would be considered to be sensitive processing as per section 
35 (8) DPA 2018. To ensure sensitive processing is compliant with data 
protection legislation, PSNI must demonstrate that this processing is 
strictly necessary, and either have the consent of the data subject or 
satisfy one of the conditions in schedule 8 of the DPA 2018. An 
appropriate policy document must also be in place as per schedule 1 
part 4 of DPA 2018. The investigation found that data subjects were 
unaware their data was being processed in this way. Therefore, consent 
had not been obtained. Sensitive processing was taking place for the 
purpose of disrupting travel arrangements which resulted in data 
subjects being refused entry to the US. Processing would not prevent or 
detect a crime and therefore does not meet the definition of law 
enforcement purposes. PSNI were unable to satisfy one of the conditions 
in schedule 8 or provide a copy of an appropriate policy document. 
Therefore, processing was not lawful or fair. 

Section 73 (1) 

1.9. EU staff were proactively sharing personal data with DHS to disrupt 
travel arrangements and that sharing was not necessary for law 
enforcement purposes. The sharing of personal data in this way would 
not have prevented a data subject committing an offence but would 
merely alert the authorities to the possibility that one may take place. 
PSNI did not have any appropriate safeguards in place. The transfer of 
personal data was also not for any specified special circumstances. 

 

3 

Therefore, the investigation found the transfer of personal data to be 
unlawful. 

Remedial steps taken by PSNI. 

1.10. The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial 
steps taken by PSNI in the light of this incident. In particular, in the 
course of our investigation we have noted that the Professional 
Standards of the EU and the Police Ombudsman of Northern Ireland 
(PONI) have conducted a review of the incident and recommendations 
have been made. PSNI has since introduced stricter controls to improve 
its compliance. These include ensuring any future data sharing is 
conducted within a formal arrangement, reviewing existing guidance and 
polices, and creating a standard operating procedure which includes data 
transfer. The Commissioner considers these steps to be appropriate and 
that they should prevent an incident of this nature happening again.   

Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
1.11. Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, the 
Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to PSNI in relation to the  
infringements of sections of the DPA 2018 set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
1.12. Due to the length of time since the incident took place the following 
steps may have already been addressed.  
 
1.13. The Commissioner recommends that PSNI should take certain steps 
to ensure its compliance with DPA 2018 
 

1.  In order to ensure compliance with section 35(1) of DPA 2018, 

appropriate steps should be taken to ensure a clear lawful basis is 
identified and documented prior to the sharing of information. Any 
sharing should take place only through a formal arrangement. Staff 
should be made aware of the revised guidance to enable them to 
understand what data can be shared prior to sharing with third 
parties. PSNI should consider increasing staff knowledge and 
awareness about data protection through training and refresher 
training which should take place on a regular basis. 
 

2.  In order to ensure compliance with section 34(3) of DPA 2018, 

access to personal data should be reviewed, and access granted as 
appropriate and only for as long as is necessary. PSNI should 
ensure staff understand processes and increase managerial 
oversight by way of regular audits to improve governance. 
 

3.  In order to ensure compliance with section 40 of DPA 2018, when 

processing personal data for law enforcement purposes, PSNI must 

 

4 

ensure that the appropriate level of security is applied. PSNI should 
consider reviewing existing internal security procedures to identify if 
any additional preventative measures can be implemented. PSNI 
should consider introducing regular management checks to ensure 
the revised guidance is being adhered to.   

 

4.  In order to ensure compliance with section 42 of DPA 2018, when 
processing sensitive personal data, PSNI must ensure it either has 
consent for processing or be able to satisfy one of the conditions in 
Schedule 8. An appropriate policy document must be in place which 
must explain your procedures for ensuring compliance with the law 
enforcement data protection principles; and you monitor the 
retention and erasure of this data. part-3-appropriate-policy-
document.docx (live.com) 
 

5.  In order to ensure compliance with section 73 of DPA 2018, 73 of 
DPA 2018, PSNI must identify a lawful bases prior to sharing with 
third countries ensuring that an appropriate data protection 
framework is in place. https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/law-
enforcement/guide-to-le-processing/international-transfers/  
 

1.14. The ICO would typically expect PSNI to provide a progress update 
on the above recommendations within three months of the date of this 
reprimand. However, PSNI has informed the ICO that it has already taken 
steps to address each of the recommendations and to improve its 
compliance with DPA 2018. 

 

5 

