 

 
Ms. Sophie in ‘t Veld, 
Mr. Olivier Chastel, 
Mr. Moritz Körner, 
Ms. Maite Pagazaurtundúa, 
Mr. Michal Šimečka, 
Ms. Ramona Strugariu, 
Members of the European Parliament 
 
By email only 
 
 
 

 

Dear Members of the European Parliament,  

28 July 2020 

Ref: OUT2020-0090 

I would like to thank you on behalf of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) for your questions 
relating to the possible expansion of the so called Prüm framework.  

The  EDPB took  note  of  the  media  reports  in  this  regard but  has  not  been  consulted,  formally  or 
informally, by the Council or the Commission  on this matter. As there is no formal proposal presented 
to date, I am only in a position  to share with you some preliminary elements of our analysis based on 
and limited to the information publicly  available. The EDPB stands ready to provide further in-depth 
guidance, should  a legislative proposal be envisioned. 

It has to be stressed that the EU data protection framework has evolved significantly since the 2005 
Prüm  Treaty and  its  partial inclusion  into  the  EU acquis  with the  so-called  Prüm  Council  Decision 
(2008/615/JHA) and the so-called Swedish Initiative (2006/960/JHA). It is therefore essential that the 
Prüm  framework  undergoes  a  comprehensive  and  independent  evaluation  with  regard  to  its 
compliance with the current data protection acquis, prior to any envisioned expansion or amendment. 
The EDPB remains available to advise the Commission  in this regard. In that respect, the EDPB takes 
note of  the Commission’s  intention  (COM(2020)  262 final, 24.6.2020) to provide  for  the necessary 
alignment with the Law Enforcement Directive (Directive 2016/680) when it proposes a revised and 
modernized Prüm legal framework in 2021. 

Whether the Prüm legal framework may be expanded to include retrospective facial recognition (i.e. 
not  live  facial  recognition), in  line  with  EU  law, would  also  depend  on  the details  of  the  possible 
expansion and data protection safeguards foreseen.  

The addition of retrospective facial recognition for the purpose of identifying a person within the Prüm 
legal framework would require a dedicated legal basis under EU law. Furthermore, whether the Prüm 
legal framework may be expanded to include retrospective facial recognition must first be assessed 
through a thorough impact assessment, in order to ensure that the necessity and proportionality of 
such measure, and the essence of the fundamental right to data protection are respected.  

 

1 

 

The EDPB indeed sees a great risk that Member States could disproportionately collect and process 
vast amount of facial recognition data, as the difference between DNA and fingerprint data on the one 
hand and facial recognition data on the other is, inter alia, that the latter data can be collected much 
more easily and also without the knowledge of the data subjects.   

Concerning your  question regarding the scope  of the mandate of  Europol and the cooperation with 
third countries, should  an amendment in this regard be considered, the EDPB will of course take into 
account the views of the EDPS (as the supervisory authority of Europol) and the Europol Cooperation 
Board in order to assess  whether the involvement of Europol would  be in line with its mandate and 
EU law. 

The  EDPB furthermore  considers  any  expansion  of  the Prüm  legal framework  with  regard to  the 
cooperation with third countries to require particular scrutiny. Transfers to third countries would have 
to be made strictly on the basis  of legally binding  instruments including  appropriate guarantees, as 
provided for in the Chapter V LED. 

Finally, I would also like to recall that the EDPB will prepare guidelines on the use of facial recognition 
technology by law enforcement authorities.  

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

