1/9

 File No.: PS/00158/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 18, 2020, Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter the part
claimant) filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
against the CITY COUNCIL OF ARNUERO, with NIF P3900600B, (hereinafter, the
claimed).

The claimant states that the son of a neighbor of the municipality of Arnuero filed a
complaint against her, providing along with that complaint, an email that she
same sent to the City Council on ***DATE.1. It states that the City Council
provided this person with a copy of his writing in which his data was recorded
without having concealed them and that the necessary measures were not adopted to
ensure compliance with data protection regulations. in said mail
email you could see your name, surnames, ID, address, mobile phone and address
of e-mail.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the respondent, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

On February 22, 2021, a response letter was received from the respondent in the
which shows that an official letter is sent to the company ***EMPRESA.1., with which
the City Council had contracted, on that date, advice on matters of
protection of personal data, and states that:

  - Until January 25, no report is issued by the
***EMPRESA.1 and this only after various telephone procedures. The indicated report
receives entry number 2021-E-RC-XXX, also dated January 25, having been sent to
this City Council by email, along with another that was requested from the indicated
company, about the document filed by a third party before this City Council.

- Considering the terms of the report regarding the claim to be insufficient, the day
January 29, 2021, a new communication is sent by email to the
representation of ***EMPRESA.1, urging greater precision and scope on the
issues that had been consulted, given that it was considered that what was raised
from the AEPD, made it necessary before adopting any resolution.

- In relation to the additional report thus requested, until the date of issuance of the
present, no news. All of which is made known to the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

Effects of being taken into account in the processing of actions with s./ref. AND/
10291/2020, indicating that they have been circumstances totally beyond the will
which have prevented a full response to what was required, especially
in relation to the sections through which it is required "the decision adopted to
purpose of this complaint” and the “report on the measures adopted to avoid
that similar incidents occur, dates of implementation and controls carried out
to verify its effectiveness”, given that it is estimated that all of this needs to receive
adequate technical-legal support.

THIRD: On April 8, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed
admit for processing the claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: On November 26, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 and 83.4 of the RGPD, respectively.

Once the initiation agreement was notified, the respondent filed a brief with allegations in
which, in summary, stated that it had proceeded to implement the measures
adequate corrective measures to avoid the repetition of similar events in the future and
requested the file of the sanctioning procedure.

FIFTH: On January 27, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:

<< That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the
CITY COUNCIL OF ARNUERO, with NIF P3900600B, for a violation of article
5.1. f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5 of the RGPD, qualified
as very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1 i) of the LOPDGDD and
infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.4 of the
cited RGPD, qualified as serious for prescription purposes in article 73
section f) of the LOPDGDD, a sanction of warning. >>

SIXTH: The respondent party has not submitted arguments to the Proposal for
Resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is stated that on November 18, 2020, the complaining party
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, since
the party complained against provided a third party with a copy of his brief containing
your personal data without having hidden them.

SECOND: It is verified that it is an email in which you can
display name, surnames, ID, address, mobile phone and email address

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

email of the claimant, for which third parties had unauthorized access
to said data.

THIRD: The respondent states that he has proceeded to implement the measures
adequate corrective actions to avoid the repetition of similar events in the future. The
documentation provided is incorporated into the file.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST: In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants
each control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

SECOND: Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD establishes the following:

“Article 5 Principles relating to processing:

1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In relation to this principle, Recital 39 of the aforementioned GDPR states that:

“[…]Personal data must be processed in a way that guarantees security and
appropriate confidentiality of personal data, including to prevent access
or unauthorized use of said data and of the equipment used in the treatment”.

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed violated article 5 “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD, section
1.f), when disclosing information and personal data to third parties.

THIRD: Regarding the security of personal data, article 32 of the RGPD
“Security of treatment”, establishes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

  "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data. (The underlining is from the AEPD).

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that are subject
of treatment, but establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, pointing out that the determination of technical measures and
organizational must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as
encryption. These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

The liability of the claimed party is determined by the security breach
revealed by the claimant, since he is responsible for making decisions
aimed at effectively implementing the technical and organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, to ensure the
confidentiality of the data, restoring its availability and preventing access to the
in the event of a physical or technical incident.

The lack of security measures is proven, in addition to the result of re-
disclosure of information, containing personal data, due to the fact that the City Council
in its response to this Agency, it undertakes to adopt a number of
These basic security measures, previously non-existent. For example “Set a
Policy for the use of the City Council information system.”

FOURTH: Article 83.5 of the RGPD provides the following:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

basic principles for treatment, including conditions for con-
sentiment under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

For its part, article 71 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements" determines what
following: Violations constitute the acts and conducts referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, article 72 of the LOPDGDD,
under the rubric of infractions considered very serious, it establishes the following: “1. In
Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

                  a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

The violation of article 32 RGPD is typified in article 83.4.a) of the
cited RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8, 11,
25 to 39, 42 and 43.”

 (…)

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, article 73 of the LOPDGDD,
under the heading "Infringements considered serious", it establishes the following:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

In the present case, the infringing circumstances provided for in article
83.5 and 83.4 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public, in Chapter III on the "Principles of the power to sanction", in the
Article 28 under the heading "Responsibility", the following:

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

Lack of diligence in implementing appropriate security measures
with the consequence of breaching the principle of confidentiality constitutes the
element of guilt.

SIXTH: Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have
all of the following corrective powers indicated below:

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

The imposition of this last measure is compatible with the sanction consisting of
administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

SEVENTH: Article 83.7 of the RGPD adds:

 “Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

The Spanish legal system has chosen not to penalize with the imposition of
administrative fine to public entities but with a warning, as
indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the LOPDGDD:

1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
sufficient evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
result of application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to
the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity
of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional authority for the protection of
data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what your
specific regulations.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: SANCTION THE CITY COUNCIL OF
ARNUERO, with NIF P3900600B, for a violation of article 5.1. f) of the RGPD and of the
article 32 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5 of the RGPD and 83.4 of the RGPD,
respectively.

SECOND: REQUEST the CITY COUNCIL OF ARNUERO, to implement the
necessary corrective measures to adapt their actions to the regulations of
protection of personal data, which prevent events from being repeated in the future
Similar.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF ARNUERO.

FOURTH:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-150222

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

