  Athens, 07-12-2022 Prot. No.: 3162 DECISION 64/2022 The Personal Data Protection Authority met, at the invitation of its President, in a regular meeting at its headquarters on 25-10-2022, in order to examine the case referred to in the history of the present. Konstantinos Menudakos, President of the Authority, the regular members Spyridon Vlachopoulos, Konstantinos Lambrinoudakis, Charalambos Anthopoulos, Christos Kalloniatis and Aikaterini Iliadou were present, as well as the substitute member Maria Psalla in place of the regular member Grigoriou Tsolia who, although he was legally and promptly called , did not attend due to disability. The meeting, without the right to vote, was attended, by order of the President, the Director of the Secretariat of the Authority Vasilios Zorkadis, as rapporteur, the Head of the Communication Department Ilias Athanasiadis, the auditors Haris Symeonidou and Konstantinos Limniotis, legal and IT specialists respectively, as rapporteur's assistants, and Irini Papageorgopoulou, an employee of the Department of Administrative Affairs, as secretary. The Authority bearing in mind: 1) The provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, for the protection of natural persons against the processing of personal data and for the free circulation of such data and the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR) and Law 4624/2019 (Government Gazette A΄ 137/29.08.2019) "Principle of Personal Data Protection 1-3 Kifisias Ave., 11523 Athens T: 210 6475 600 E: contact@dpa.gr www.dpa.gr 1 Nature, implementing measures of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 and other provisions", 2) The Regulation of Operation of the Authority (Decision 9/2022, Official Gazette B' 879/25.02.2022, as amended by Decision 13/2022, Official Gazette B' 1245/17.03.2022 and valid), 3) Chapter I of Law 4727/ 2020 on Open Data and the further use of public sector information (incorporation into Greek Legislation of Directive (EU) 2019/1024 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of June 20, 2019), examined the rules for the removal of identity information listed in the Decisions of Authority in order for them to be posted on its website. The Authority, after hearing the rapporteur and the assistant rapporteurs, after a thorough discussion, DECIDED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW 1. According to article 61 par. 1 of Law 4727/2020 (Government Gazette A' 184/23.09.2020), "The documents of the entities of this Chapter are available from the moment of their posting, publication or initial disposal, free for further use and utilization for commercial or non-commercial purposes, without requiring any action by the interested party or act of the administration (principle of open availability and further of use of public information), subject to articles 64 to 66, 69 and 70". 2. According to article 59 par. 6 of the aforementioned Law 4727/2020, "The provisions of this Chapter do not affect the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as the provisions of laws 4624/2019 (A` 137) and 3471/2006 (A`133), regarding the protection of personal data". 3. From the above provisions, on the one hand, the obligation of the Authority to openly and publicly dispose of the decisions it issues, contributing to the strengthening of transparency and facilitating their further use for the purpose of the public interest, and on the other hand, the obligation of the Authority to 2 protect the personal data of natural persons included in these decisions, in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, for the protection of natural persons against the processing of of personal data and for the free movement of such data and the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) and Law 4624/2019 (Official Gazette A΄ 137/29.08.2019). 4. In accordance with Article 25 para. 1 of the GDPR, the data controller, taking into account the latest developments, the cost of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of different probability of occurrence and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons from processing, effectively implements, both at the time of determining the means of processing and at the time of processing, appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymization, designed to implement protection principles of data, such as data minimization, and incorporating the necessary safeguards into processing in order to meet GDPR requirements and protect the rights of data subjects ("data protection by design"). 5. According to the first paragraph of par. 3 of article 1 of the Authority's Regulation of Operation, "The Authority acts with impartiality, full independence and transparency in the exercise of its powers, and in favor of the public interest". 6. According to par. 7 of article 10 of the Authority's Operation Regulation, "The Authority's decisions are posted on its website, after removing the information that leads to the identification of natural persons, in accordance with relevant rules determined by the Authority". 3 FOR THESE REASONS, the Authority unanimously decides to determine the rules for the removal of identity information in its Decisions posted on its website, as described in the Appendix hereto. The President Constantinos Menudakos The Secretary Irini Papageorgopoulou 4 APPENDIX RULES FOR REMOVAL OF IDENTITY DETAILS IN THE AUTHORITY'S DECISIONS POSTED ON ITS WEBSITE Natural Persons 1. The identification details of natural persons are replaced by symbols, such as A, B, C, etc. , regardless of the initials of the names, and are kept unchanged throughout the text of the decision. 2. The names of lawyers representing the principal remain as they are. Legal Entities and Public Entities 3. The name of legal entities or public services as a rule remains the same, even if the name of a legal entity also contains the name of a natural person. 4. In the case of public bodies or legal entities, whose name includes a local characteristic or other special identifier, as long as the publication of their full name poses a risk of revealing the identity of complainants or natural persons exercising their rights, any local characteristic or other special identifier is removed or replaced with a symbol. For example, in the case of "A.T. Agriniou", the full name is replaced by "A.T. G" or "A.T. ...". 5. Exceptionally, the name of legal entities or public services will be replaced with a symbol in those cases where their disclosure could jeopardize an ongoing investigation by the Authority. For example, if the Authority is going to carry out a surprise audit of a controller whose name appears in a relevant decision for another controller that must be issued before the start of the audit, then this name is replaced by a symbol or generic name such as "Controller Processing X" or "Company L or Entity Y", if it is deemed to be a necessary protection measure. The Communication Department will be informed of the assistance of such a case by the assistant rapporteur. Quasi Identifiers 6. In the case of natural persons, any professional status or other designation that could lead to their identification is deleted, such as "former minister and current businessman and his famous actress wife" or "rare disease" combined with specific place or other element. 7. The status of the representative of a public body or legal entity remains (is not deleted), while the name of the representative is deleted, such as "the Head of the IT Department" of the body. The name of the Data Protection Officer is also deleted. 8. The protocol numbers of incoming documents of other entities are deleted. The protocol numbers of the Authority's documents remain. 9. In the decisions related to the exercise of rights in the Schengen, VIS (Visa Information System), Eurodac (European Asylum Dactyloscopy Database) and EKANA (National List of Unwanted Aliens) systems, the nationality of the person exercising the right is deleted. 5 Other Special Cases 10. In special cases, other rules may be applied, if it is judged that the application of the above does not sufficiently protect against the re-identification of natural persons or if there is a need to protect commercial, banking or other confidentiality. 11. In decisions of cases of reposting of online information & cases of exercising the right to be forgotten for search engines, the corresponding online links and any quasi-identifiers (see above criterion 6) are deleted, taking into account also relevant information that has seen the light of day, such as for example "until recently president of company X" or allegations ofinvolved controllers.

12. In cases of telephone harassment or unsolicited communication

(spam/sms),
their telephone numbers or e-mail addresses are deleted
natural or legal persons, respectively. In these cases, the
legal entities, as complainants, can request the deletion of the brand
from the decisions of the Authority that will be published.
 

13. Everything that is not covered by the above rules is decided on a case-by-case basis.
 

 

 

 

 

6

