 

press release

 

#OnlineAmLimit - your network. your life. your limits. –

 

TLfDI presents its current handout

on "digital self-defense"

in the net!

 
Erfurt, February 06, 2023
 
The focus of this year's 20th Safer Internet Day (SID) 2023 is
tet: How healthy is our digital everyday life and what skills do we need
to use digital media consciously and in a balanced way?
 
The internet and smartphones have become an integral part of our everyday lives. The digital
talization and the associated fast-moving times demand a lot from us. No
Start the day without checking emails and chats or quickly reading the news,
to be up to date. But to what point is media use
still normal and healthy and where are the dangers to our privacy lurking and how
can we protect ourselves and our family?
 
The Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information
(TLfDI), Dr. Lutz Hasse advises: “Minimize your data in the network – your data will
Used to create profiles about you without you knowing. And these profiles
are in turn used to make statements or forecasts about you.
These do not have to be correct, but are nevertheless used. From whom and to
what purpose – unknown!”
 
To raise awareness and strengthen digital resilience, the TLfDI has developed its "hand
for digital self-defence” and updated
Added tips on smart home technology. After brief references to the current
driving situation, you will be provided with tips on how to increase your digital protection
can. With further links you can get more detailed information. special
elle tips for smartphones, smartwatches and fitness trackers, as well as PCs and

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

 
 
current applications such as Windows 10 and Windows 11 have also been
complete and updated for you. Dangers on the Internet are unfortunately
not directly perceptible, but nonetheless omnipresent. Do you have the dangers?
recognized, it is important to protect yourself against it.
 
You can contact us at any time with your questions and problems to protect your privacy
contact the TLfDI at: https://www.tlfdi.de/kontakt/
  
 

  

8th edition, January 2023

 
 
 
About Safer Internet Day
Safer Internet Day (SID) is a global day of action for more online security
and for a better Internet for children and young people. Since 2004 it has always been on
Tuesday of the second week of February and sets a new thematic
cal focus within the framework of the international motto “Together for a better
Internet". In Germany, Safer Internet Day is organized by the EU initiative klicksafe
coordinated.
 
 

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Hässlerstrasse 8
99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

