1/11

gabardi
 Procedure No.: PS/00269/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 02/18/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directs against HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA-LA MANCHA with NIF Q4500146H
(hereinafter SSCM). The reasons on which the claim is based are, in summary:

- That on 01/25/2019 he submits an application to apply for a position as Medical Coordinator
for the La Solana Health Center, convened by the Integrated Care Management
of the Sanitary Area of Talavera de la Reina (Toledo), dependent on the Health Service
of Castile-La Mancha.
- That by email the Deputy Medical Director of said Management attaches
the report made by the Legal Services in which it is indicated that it does not meet the
conditions set in the call based on the fact that I have a temporary affiliation
in said health center for occupational health reasons.
- That an email identical to the corporate emails of the
La Solana and Río Tajo health centers, so that, following the established protocol,
forward to all team members, so that all workers
from the Health Center (45 people, including myself), receive an email
email from the Integrated Care Management of Talavera de la Reina
(Medical Subdirectorate), in which said information is transferred and everyone is informed
them of their work situation and that it is conditioned by health reasons.

It consists provided by the claimant:

- Copy of your ID
- Copy of the email sent by the Integrated Attention Management of the
Sanitary Area of Talavera de la Reina (Toledo), dependent on the Service of
Health of Castilla La Mancha.
  Copy of the email sent by the Río Tajo health center to the
addresses of your workers.

-

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 02/18/2019, reiterated on 04/12/2019, the claim was transferred to the SSCM
submitted for analysis and communication to the claimant of the decision adopted
regard. Likewise, it was required that within a month he send to the
Agency certain information:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the

claim and its transfer to the claimed entity.

On 05/23/2019 SSCM sent a letter in which it stated, among other things, that
in the email of 01/29/2019, professionals were informed and motivated
of the Primary Care Team of Talavera 3 Rio Tajo of the administrative situation
current and the cause of exclusion or non-admission that concurred in the candidate, the
claimant, in the regulated process for the provision and selection of the post of
Medical Coordinator of the aforementioned Team, in order to determine the cause of
exclusion.

THIRD: On 06/18/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: On 11/22/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, in accordance with the
provided in articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with
to the provisions of article 77.2 of the LOPDGDD.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned initiation agreement, in writing of 12/10/2019, the claimed
presented a pleadings brief in which, in summary, it stated the following: that
SSCM had not violated the duty of confidentiality of the data and that all the
e-mail recipients were public employees of SESCAM; that
information contained in the email has been used within the limited
scope of statutory linkage of said professionals, so it cannot be
considered excessive information provided; that the management and access to the account
mail is done by the administrative staff of the health center and is accessed
always with a specific profile and, in the same way, the rest of the professionals receive
said information subject to an encrypted system where they can only access
by password; that the mail claimed by the claimant is reported within the
scope of the Talavera 3 Rio Tajo Primary Care Team to professionals
assigned to said team of the cause of exclusion and non-admission of the candidate in
matter within the regulated procedure convened on 01/14/2019; that the
professionals of said team are the only recipients of the email; that
analyzed the documentation available in the processing of this claim, the
treatment of the same is adapted to the normative support in the exercise of the
functions of participation of the professionals and public employees of the aforementioned team
primary care; that there has been no violation of the privacy protection regulations

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

personal data, since no information has been provided on clinical aspects
of the state of health of the claimant, the fact that this person was destined for
provisionally for health reasons was appropriate and relevant within the aforementioned
provision procedure because their enrollment in the Talavera Health Center
Río Tajo was subject to scheduled occupational health check-ups and
recipients of the information were the professionals involved in the participation and
resolution proposal of the provision procedure.

SIXTH: On 02/11/2020, the opening of a practice period of
tests, remembering the following:

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection Services that are part of file E/02128/2019.
Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
presented by the claimed party and the documentation that accompanies them.
Request the claimant a copy of all the documentation that was in his possession.
power relative to the sanctioning procedure that for any reason does not
had been provided at the time of the complaint or any other
statement in relation to the facts denounced.

SEVENTH: On 06/04/2020, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense of
that the defendant be sanctioned with a warning for violation of article 5.1.f)
of the RGPD, typified in article 85.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD, in accordance with the
Article 77.2 of the LOPDGDD.

After the period established for this purpose, the respondent did not present a written
allegations at the time of issuing this resolution.

EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 02/12/2019 there is an entry in the AEPD written by the claimant
stating that on 01/25/2019 I submitted an application to apply for a position in
Medical Coordinator at the Health Center of La Solana and Rio Tajo, convened by the
Management of Integrated Care of the Health Area of Talavera de la Reina (Toledo),
dependent on the Health Service of Castilla La Mancha; via email
the Medical Deputy Director of said Management attached a report made by the Services
Legal in which it was indicated that it did not meet the conditions set out in the
call motivated by their situation of temporary affiliation in said center of
health for occupational health reasons; Subsequently, an identical mail has been sent to the
rest of the professionals who are members of the health center, in which said
information and all of them are informed of their employment situation and that it is
conditioned for health reasons.

SECOND. The claimant provides a copy of his DNI in ***NIF.1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

THIRD. A copy of the email sent on 01/29/2019 to
claimant by the Medical Deputy Director of the Area Integrated Care Management
Health of Talavera de la Reina (Toledo), and of content identical to that which has received the
rest of the professionals of the Health Center:

From: “B.B.B.” <***EMAIL.1>
To: “A.A.A.” ***EMAIL.2
CC: “C.C.C.” ***EMAIL.3
Sent: Tuesday, January 29, 2019 11:45
Attach: Resolution ADAPTATION A.A.A..pdf; A.A.A. - REVISION ***DATE.1-
INTERNAL NOTE. PDF
Subject: RV: RIVER TAJO COORDINATION PROCEDURE

  “Regarding the request submitted on January 25 by the claimant, to
participate in the procedure for the election of medical coordinator, I will inform:

The aforementioned professional is attached to the Talavera Rio Tajo health center for
occupational health reasons (I enclose a copy of the resolution) with effect date of 26
January 2018. The claimant's affiliation is temporary, and his job position is
origin corresponding to the CIAS XXXXXXXXXXX, Talavera-La Team square
Algodonera, in which it maintains its right to reserve.

Assignment for occupational health reasons is temporary, while
maintain the recommendations of adaptation established by the service of
Prevention of Occupational Risks by virtue of the corresponding revisions (or in case of
incorporation of permanent staff to the square).

The last revision was made on September 25, 2018, establishing the
next review after six months, without any evidence that the review has been carried out.

The following is indicated in the selection bases:

(…)

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

The facts denounced are specified in the sending by the claimed mail
emails from the ***EMAIL.4 account to the email addresses of the
professionals of the aforementioned Health Center containing the causes of exclusion and not
admission of the claimant within the procedure convened on 01/14/2019 of

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

selection and provision of Medical Coordinator of your Team, violating the duty of
confidentiality.

Such treatment could constitute an infringement of article 5,

Principles related to the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)”

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

III

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, in
relation to article 5 of the LOPGDD, duty of confidentiality, when revealing the
reasons for the job assignment as well as the causes of exclusion and non-admission of the
claimant in the procedure for choosing a medical coordinator, considering
excessive.

This duty of confidentiality, previously the duty of secrecy, must
understood that its purpose is to prevent leaks of data not
consented to by their owners.

Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not
only to the person in charge and in charge of the treatment but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

In accordance with what was stated above, the processing of personal data
requires the existence of a legal basis that legitimizes it, as a guarantee of security
adequate for the integrity and confidentiality of the data through measures
adequate.

The claim that we examine is caused by the content of the email
email that informed the professionals of the Primary Care Team of
Talavera 3 Rio Tajo of the administrative situation and cause of exclusion or non-admission
that concurred in the claimant, in the regulated process for the provision and selection of the
position of Medical Coordinator of the aforementioned Team, dated 01/29/2019 that reproduces

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

some fragments in the third proven fact. The aforementioned email was sent by the
Deputy Medical Director who initially attaches the report made by the
Legal Services indicating that it does not meet the conditions set out in the call
motivated by a temporary affiliation in said health center for health reasons
labor. Subsequently, identical mail is sent to the rest of the corporate emails of
so that all the workers of the Health Center (45 people, including
I find myself), they receive an e-mail from the Service Management
Integrated Hospital of Talavera de la Reina (Medical Subdirectorate), in which said
information and all of them are informed of their employment situation and that it is
conditioned for health reasons.

Pursuant to article 5.1.f) the processing of personal data must guarantee
adequate security of the data, including protection against unlawful processing
authorized or unlawful and against loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the
application of appropriate technical or organizational measures.

In short, the processing of personal data of the claimant that is carried out
by the Medical Subdirectorate by sending the email that was forwarded to all
professionals of the center on 01/29/2019, it will be lawful if there is a legal basis that legitimizes it.

In the first place, that the treatment is necessary to satisfy an interest
legitimate pursued by the data controller; what transferred to the assumption
that concerns us implies that the processing of personal data carried out through
of the email of 01/29/2019 pursued to satisfy the legitimate interest of the person in charge of the
treatment, although such treatment would require that “the interests pursued are not
prevail over the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data”.

Determine if the treatment that the claimed person made of the claimant's data
through the email that you sent to the professionals of the health center is or
not adjusted to law requires weighing the interests at stake to conclude whether it should
prevail or not over the right to freedom of association the right of the claimant to his
privacy.

Regarding legitimate interest as a legal basis for data processing

of third parties, Recital 47 of the RGPD says:

<<The legitimate interest of a data controller, including that of a
responsible to which personal data may be communicated, or of a third party, may
constitute a legal basis for the treatment, provided that the
interests or the rights and freedoms of the interested party, taking into account the
reasonable expectations of data subjects based on their relationship with the
responsible. Such legitimate interest could occur, for example, when there is a relationship
relevant and appropriate relationship between the data subject and the controller, such as in situations where
which the interested party is a client or is at the service of the person in charge. In any case,
the existence of a legitimate interest would require careful assessment, even if
a data subject can reasonably foresee, at the time and in the context of the
collection of personal data, which may be processed for this purpose. In
particular, the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject could
prevail over the interests of the data controller when proceeding to the
processing of personal data in circumstances in which the interested party does not
reasonably expect further treatment to take place. Since it corresponds
the legislator to establish by law the legal basis for the processing of personal data
by public authorities, this legal basis should not apply to
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions. The
processing of personal data strictly necessary for the prevention
of fraud also constitutes a legitimate interest of the data controller.
that it is Processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes
can be considered carried out for legitimate interest.>>

Transferred to the facts that concern us, it must be concluded that the Deputy Director
Medical, through the email sent to forty-five professionals from the Center for
Health, provided information that was not pertinent to the purposes pursued but, by
On the contrary, the data provided must be qualified as excessive in relation to
such purpose as it was to report the result of the call. The treatment
of some data concerning the claimant is not lawful because he did not find
protection in article 6.1.f of the RGPD.

This treatment constitutes a violation of the principle of confidentiality.

that presides over the processing of personal data of third parties (article 5.1.f, of the RGPD)

The debate in which the examined facts take place justifies the participation
and exchange information between professionals, and this is established in the bases of
the summons.

And while it is true that the call established that the group of
professionals from the team to whom it was addressed, the Primary Care Team, have
right to participate and to be heard in the selection procedure and provision of
Medical Coordinator of your team, giving them a certain weight or assessment to
the proposal that can be made by the professionals assigned to the Team, being
heard before proceeding with the appointment of the Coordinator, it is no less true that
this does not imply that the reasons why a product is excluded should be disclosed.
candidate, especially if said reasons are related to health.

In addition, in the development of the selection process it is pointed out that the Commission
submit to Management the proposal of the person it deems most appropriate once
carried out the procedure and that the Directorate of the Management issued a resolution that
published on the intranet of the Management in which the scores obtained will appear
by the candidates and, where appropriate, those excluded.

Now, what is considered relevant is the disclosure of information that
can be considered excessive in light of the aforementioned bases, such as the fact that the
participant/applicant is assigned to the center for occupational health reasons, which
their affiliation is temporary as long as the recommendations of
adaptation established by the Occupational Risk Prevention service under
of the revisions coming, etc.

In consideration of the foregoing, given that the email addressed
illicitly certain personal data of the claimant that were alien to the
interests at stake and revealed them to forty-five people, recipients of the mail
email sent on 01/29/2019, it is concluded that the claimed party is responsible for
an infringement of article 5.1.f), in relation to article 6.1, of the RGPD.

The violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD is typified in article 83.5.a)
of the GDPR. The LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, in its article 72.1.a) qualifies this
very serious offense.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

IV

8/11

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned RGPD.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, establishes that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates, for purposes of prescription: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

However, the LOPDGDD in its article 77,

 Regime applicable to
certain categories of controllers or processors, establishes the
Next:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.
2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and
sanctions to apply will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary regime
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to
the previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that would have committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

The conduct of the defendant constitutes an infringement of the provisions of article

5.1.f) of the RGPD.

However, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of article 83,
contemplates in the transcribed article the possibility of resorting to the sanction of
warning to correct the processing of personal data that is not appropriate
to its forecasts, when those responsible or in charge listed in the section
1 committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

 

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE THE HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA.
INTEGRATED ATTENTION MANAGEMENT OF TALAVERA DE REINA, with NIF Q4500146H,
for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: REQUEST CASTILLA LA MANCHA HEALTH SERVICE.
INTEGRATED ATTENTION MANAGEMENT OF TALAVERA DE REINA, with NIF Q4500146H,
so that within a month from the notification of this resolution, prove: the
adoption of the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee the
processing of data to the regulations on the protection of personal data
staff in order to prevent future incidents such as those
have given rise to the formulation of the claim object of the procedure and its
adaptation to the requirements contemplated in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the HEALTH SERVICE OF
CASTILLA LA MANCHA. INTEGRATED ATTENTION MANAGEMENT OF TALAVERA DE
QUEEN, with NIF Q4500146H.

FOURTH
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also

  Electronic Registration of

through the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

