




Press release from the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Mecklenburg-West Pomerania
Corona lists: Do not keep guest data openly accessible







No.20200630
|
06/30/2020
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information is currently receiving many complaints criticizing the collection of personal data during the corona pandemic. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Heinz Müller, explains: "The collection of contact data as stipulated in the ordinance of the state government is currently still unavoidable in order to further contain the corona pandemic by tracing chains of infection. However, there are several things to consider here. Only the collection of contact data is permitted, not also the collection of health data. Questions about respiratory problems, for example, are taboo, although there are narrow exceptions for companies in the field of medicinal products and body care. The contact data collected may only be processed for the purpose of tracing and not for advertising purposes. The data must be treated confidentially, lists that can be viewed by third parties are therefore excluded. And the data is to be destroyed after four weeks, for example by chasing the completed forms through the shredder.”
To ensure that data protection and protection against infection cannot be played off against each other, his authority has published a number of practical tips on its website. Innkeepers, organizers, hairdressers and fitness studios will find templates for data collection on individual sheets or in lists. "However, these lists must not be lying around in the open," says Müller. "They must be filled out by a service employee." The state commissioner recommends recording and storing guest data in paper form. Automated processing leads to more effort in meeting data protection requirements. Müller: “We try to make it as easy as possible for everyone involved to comply with the applicable law. Anyone who does not comply must expect sanctions.”









                Back to overview









