1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00116/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated June 4, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against Avalos Consultores, S.L., with NIF B98832637 (in
later, the claimed one).

The claimant states that the respondent with whom she had contracted the services
de Asesoría Fiscal has transmitted your data to the agency Torrent Asesores Nga, S.L,
without your consent.
Date on which the claimed events took place: prior to March 31
of 2020.
Along with the claim, the following documentation is provided:
- Invoice for the year 2017, where the agency with which you contracted the services of

tax advice.

- Invoice of March 31, 2020, formalized by the other agency.
- Email dated June 1, 2020, sent to the two agencies, claiming
for this fact and pointing out that they have never communicated the transfer of
documentation to a third company, nor has it been authorized.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD).
Thus, on November 27, 2020, a letter is addressed to the claimant admitting his
claim pending.

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed one.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

1. It is recorded that in the proceedings with reference E/05051/82021, the transfer of the
claim to the entity claimed on July 21, 2020, through the service of
electronic notifications, being returned due to the expiration of the delivery period.

2. It is verified, based on the documentation provided by the claimant, that the
Personal data provided in 2017 by the claimant to the respondent are listed
on the invoice issued by the third company.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

3. A request for information is made on the causes that have motivated the
claim submitted by the claimant to the respondent on February 1 and
February 2021, in the actions with reference E/09749/2020, through the service
of electronic notifications and the postal service. being both
returned notifications. The first one, because the delivery deadline has expired and
the second returned to origin as surplus. Not having been withdrawn at the office of
emails.
4. A request is made for information on the causes that have motivated the
claim submitted by the claimant to the Torrent agency.
5. It is recorded that on July 21, 2020, and on February 1 and 16, 2021, transfer was given
from the complaint to the one claimed in the proceedings with reference E/09749/2020, to
through the electronic notification service and the postal service.
Being both notifications returned. The first one, due to the expiration of the
delivery time and the second returned to origin due to surplus. Not having been withdrawn
at the post office.

THIRD: On April 14, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD and
considered very serious in 72.1.a), for prescription purposes, setting a sanction
initial payment of 4,000 euros (four thousand euros).

FOURTH: Having been notified electronically, the start agreement. Being the
date of availability on April 14, 2021 and the date of rejection
automatic on the 25th of the same month and year.

 : Formal notification of the start agreement, the claim at the time of the
FIFTH
 
This resolution has not submitted a brief of arguments, so it is
application of what is stated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, which in its
section f) establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the stipulated period
on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: It is stated that the respondent transferred the claimant's data to a third party.
  
SECOND: It is verified, based on the documentation provided by the claimant, that
the personal data provided in 2017 by the claimant to the respondent
appear on the invoice issued by the third company.
THIRD: It is known that the respondent did not reply to this Agency, after the
requirements made on February 1 and 16, 2021.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

FOURTH: On April 14, 2021, this sanctioning procedure was initiated by the
violation of article 6 of the RGPD, being notified on April 25, 2021. No
having made allegations, the claimed one, to the initial agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of the
Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

III

Sections b), d) and i) of article 58.2 of the RGPD provide the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;"

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

a) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the party
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since the actions
practiced, it follows that the respondent processed the data without legitimacy to do so
the claimant, that is, I communicate the data of the claimant to a third party.

In this sense, it should be noted that the entity complained against did not answer this
Agency, as stated in the notifications carried out both through the
postal service, such as by electronic notifications on July 21, 2020, and
on February 1 and 16, 2021, nor did it make allegations to the agreement to start the
present sanctioning procedure.

v

In accordance with the precepts indicated for the purposes of setting the amount of the
sanction to be imposed in this case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to
impose in accordance with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the
GDPR:

As aggravating criteria:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

-

The lack of cooperation with the AEPD in order to remedy the infraction and
mitigate its effects (article 83.2 f) of the RGPD).

- Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, surnames,

domicile), according to article 83.2 g of the RGPD.

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on the
claimed and fix it in the amount of €4,000 for the infraction of article 6 of the
GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE AVALOS CONSULTORES, S.L., with NIF B98832637, for a
infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, a
fine of 4,000 euros (four thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to AVALOS CONSULTORES, S.L., with
NIF B98832637.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

