1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00358/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: ***COMPANY.1 (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated March 17
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against A.A.A. (RESTAURANTE R.R.R.) with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereafter, the party claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following as stated in the claim the following:

“The R.R.R. restaurant, despite warnings from the police and petitions
verbal relations of passers-by and customers of neighboring businesses, maintains several
cameras directed towards the premises next door (...) and public area excessively
(…)”

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the
presence of the cameras that can affect the adjoining area excessively.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party in fe-
date (s) 04/05/21, 04/15/21 and 05/10/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform
this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to
the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

No response to this letter has been received after consulting the database of this
Agency.

THIRD: On July 6, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: On August 24, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On 09/28/21 it is required by the Instructor of the procedure
collaboration of the State Security Forces and Bodies so that
displaced to the scene of the events verify the presence and operation of the
cameras.

SIXTH: On 10/21/21, this Agency received a Report from the Local Police
(Chiclana de la Frontera) who, displaced to the scene of the events, carried out the
opportune investigations, verifying the withdrawal of the cameras by the previous
responsible for the reported establishment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. This claim is caused by the following facts "bad cameras
oriented” that can obtain data from third parties without just cause.

Second. The entity *** COMPANY.1 is accredited as the main responsible entity.

Third. The withdrawal of the cameras from their previous location is accredited,
so that to date the video system has been dismantled
surveillance.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 03/17/21 is examined by me-
from which the presence of video-surveillance cameras that could be
be misguided, affecting the rights of third parties without just cause, which
So for public area.

Article 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: Personal data will be: “adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.
two (“data minimization”).

Individuals are responsible for the installed video-surveillance systems to be
comply with current legislation, and must be able to prove such extremes.
We report to the competent authority.

Cameras installed by individuals must be oriented towards their private space.
vative avoiding the capture of private area of third parties without just cause.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the objective environment.
of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces.
contiguous buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

Likewise, in the case of false cameras, they must be oriented
to a private area, avoiding intimidation of neighboring neighbors who are unaware
know whether or not they process personal data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

The premises must have an informative poster indicating that it is a
video-monitored area, with express mention of the data controller, as well as
informative form (s) available to the clients of the same for, if applicable,
formulate your rights within the framework of data protection.

III

In the investigation phase, the collaboration of the Local Police (Chi-
clana de la Frontera) so that those displaced to the scene of the events verify the
presence and operability of the cameras that are the subject of the complaint.

On 10/21/21, this body received a Report from the Local Police (Chiclana de
la Frontera) who, displaced to the scene of the events, carried out the appropriate investigations,
verifying the withdrawal of the cameras by the previous person in charge of the establishment
denounced.

“The establishment currently has another name, ***EMPRESA.2.
Put in contact with the owner, it is verified that the cameras that are in-
were on the terrace when the incident was reported, they were already removed by the
previous owner. At the time of the visit, the complaining party was present.
telling the agents that those cameras are no longer there” (*bold
belongs to this organization).

In accordance with the evidence available in the proceeding
sanctioning party, it is considered that the party claimed at the time proceeded to "withdraw
the cameras in their current location.

Based on the foregoing, it is considered that the
"irregularity" in the system object of claim, being aware of the part
claimant of the withdrawal of the same, which justifies the Archive of these
performances.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of the administrative infraction object of claim.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A. (R.R.R. RESTAURANT).

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

