Statement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from

the European Union

Adopted on 15 December 2020
Updated on 13 January 2021

The European Data Protection Board has adopted the following statement:

-

-

-

-

The EDPB wishes to remind all stakeholders that the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the
European  Union took  effect  on 1  January  2021, when the  UK ceased, for  all  intents  and
purposes, to be a Member State of the EU.

However,  the  EU and  UK reached  an  agreement  (the ‘EU-UK  Trade  and  Cooperation
Agreement’ or the ‘Agreement’) on 24 December 20201, which provisionally came into force
on 1 January 2021 until 28 February 2021 pending ratification by the European Parliament and
the Council of the EU. The Agreement provides that, for a maximum period of six months from
its entry into force – i.e., until 30 June 2021 at the latest - and upon the condition that the
UK’s current data protection regime stays in place, all data flows of personal data between
stakeholders subject to GDPR and UK organisations will not be considered as transfers to a
third country.

This means that organisations subject to GDPR will be able to carry on transmitting data to UK
organisations without the need to either put in place a transfer tool under Article 46 GDPR or
rely on an Article 49 GDPR derogation. Specific guidance can be found on the EDPB website
(https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_informationnote_20201215_trans
ferstoukaftertransitionperiod_updated20210113_en.pdf).

The  EDPB  wishes  to  also  recall  the  consequences  regarding  the  regulatory  oversight  over
ongoing cross-border processing and related complaints, for which the GDPR foresees the
One-Stop-Shop (OSS) mechanism. The OSS mechanism envisages that there is one supervisory
authority (SA) competent for cross-border processing cases, being the SA of the controller’s
or processor’s main or single establishment in the EEA (the lead supervisory authority), in
pursuance of the GDPR.

1 The Agreement was signed on 30 December 2020.

1

-

-

-

As of 1 January 2021, the OSS mechanism is no longer applicable to the UK so that the UK
Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) is no longer part of it. The EDPB has been liaising with
the  ICO  over  the  past  months  in  order  to enable  a  smooth  shift  to  this  new situation  by
ensuring  that  the  EEA  authorities  follow  a  shared  and  efficient  approach  in handling  the
existing complaints and cross-border cases involving the ICO, whilst minimizing delays and
possible inconveniences to affected complainants.

The EDPB wishes to emphasize that the decision to benefit from the unified interlocution (the
lead supervisory authority) enabled by the OSS mechanism in cross-border processing cases
is up to the individual controllers and processors, who to that end may decide whether to set
up a new main establishment in the EEA under the terms of Article 4(16) GDPR.

The EDPB recalls in this respect that controllers and processors not established in the EEA but
whose processing activities are subject to the application of the GDPR under Article 3(2) GDPR
are required to designate a representative in the Union in accordance with Article 27 of the
GDPR. The representative may be addressed by supervisory authorities and data subjects on
all issues related to processing activities in order to ensure compliance with the GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

adopted

2

