 

 

 
 
 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

03/10/2021

 Fine proceedings against VfB Stuttgart 1893 AG end

with the imposition of a fine.

 

LfDI Stefan Brink: "In addition to the noticeable fine,

the VfB for significant organizational and technical

Improvements in terms of data protection. Also plan

happily those responsible will in future

gement in the clarification of data protection concerns, with

which is addressed primarily to young people

must."

 
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Information

onsfreiheit Stefan Brink closes the proceedings against VfB

Stuttgart 1893 AG and issued a fine of

300,000 euros for negligent breach of data protection

legal accountability according to Art. 5 Para. 2 DS-

GMO.

Those responsible at VfB Stuttgart 1893 e.V. and VfB

Stuttgart 1893 AG have the reconnaissance and investigative

measures of the state representative supported by own

 

- 2 -

ne initiative funded and with the authority of the state

commissioned extensive cooperation.

 

In addition to paying the fine and the costly

structuring and improvement of your data protection management

ments, VfB Stuttgart 1893 AG takes action in coordination

the LfDI measures to raise awareness among young people

for data protection concerns.

 

This is how VfB supports the “Data protection goes to school” project

by supporting public relations work for regional

School action days and as part of child/youth-oriented vi-

deos to raise awareness of data protection issues.

In addition, VfB designs training courses for foot

youth ball teams U10 to U21 on the subject of

protection of young people”.

 

LfDI Stefan Brink: “With the issuance of this fine

we complete a procedure that also applies to us as a

supervisory authority was unusual. Unusual was not only

the subject of our procedure, but above all that

related public and media interest. un-

usual was also the scope of the through the involvement of

Esecon demonstrated interest in clarification and the cooperation

VfB willingness to cooperate with our authority.”

 

This procedure gives rise to a good chance

Stefan Brink continues that VfB Stuttgart will in future

fair handling of members' data

is. "Even if we don't with a view to statutes of limitations

fully investigate all publicly discussed events

could, is the result that has now been found by consensus

nis convincing: In addition to the noticeable fine, the

 

- 3 -

VfB for significant organizational and technical improvements

ments in terms of data protection. In addition, those responsible

happily a commitment in the future

clarification of data protection concerns, with the young

people should be addressed.”

 

With the issuance of the fine notice, the investigations

against VfB Stuttgart 1893 e.V. and VfB Stuttgart 1893

AG completed.

 

 

