The ICO exists to empower you through information. 

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF 
T. 0303 123 1113
ico.org.uk

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

14 November 2023 

TO: GRS (Roadstone) Limited 

OF: Unit 10, Goldsmith Way, Nuneaton, CV10 7RJ 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
GRS (Roadstone) Limited in accordance with Article 58 (2) (b) of the UK 
General Data Protection Regulation in respect of certain infringements of 
the UK GDPR.   

The reprimand 

The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to GRS (Roadstone) 
Limited in respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 

• Article 32 (1) which states:

“taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation and 
the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risk 
of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural 
persons, the controller and the processor shall implement appropriate 
technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security 
appropriate to the risk” 

• Article 32 (1) (b) which states that an organisation should:

“ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of 
processing systems and services” 

• Article 32 (1) (d) which states that an organisation should have:

“a process for regular testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness 
of technical and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the 
processing” 

The reason for the Commissioner’s provisional findings are set out herein.

The ICO exists to empower you through information. 

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF 
T. 0303 123 1113 
ico.org.uk 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GRS (Roadstone) Limited are an independent supplier of material to the 
construction industry. The group employs at least 800 people across 41 
sites in the UK. They are a predominantly Business-2-Business operation, 
however they hold personal data on current and former employees. 
 
It is our understanding that on 11 March 2022 a Threat Actor gained 
access to the GRS (Roadstone) Limited network, deployed Ransomware 
and exfiltrated data from the network. Part of the exfiltration included 
personal data for 2,022 UK Data Subjects and included names, addresses, 
National Insurance numbers, passports, driving licences, birth/marriage 
certificates, bank details, dates of birth and HR records. Within the HR 
records some limited special category data related to medical information 
was also exfiltrated as part of the incident. 
 
GRS (Roadstone) Limited have determined the cause of the incident was 
via a Remote Desktop Service operated by a GRS (Roadstone) Limited 
subsidiary, S. Walsh & Son Limited. Once inside the network, the Threat 
Actor exploited a vulnerability on a print driver which allowed for an 
escalation of privileges, lateral movement across the network and the 
ability to deploy Ransomware and stage exfiltration of data. 
 
Our investigation found infringements in relation to the security 
requirement of the UK GDPR and these are set out below. 
 

•  GRS (Roadstone) Limited were not ensuring the ongoing 
confidentiality of their systems as per Article 32 (1) (b).  

 
When considering the risk posed to Data Subjects, the appropriate 
organisational measures were not in place. Specifically, the use of a 
Remote Desktop solution deployed by a subsidiary business (S. Walsh & 
Sons Limited), who were acquired by GRS (Roadstone) Limited in 
December 2017. At the time of the incident, some areas of the 
organisation utilised a Virtual Private Network and Multi Factor 
Authentication. The Remote Desktop solution which led to the incident did 
not have Multi Factor Authentication implemented. ICO Ransomware and 
data protection compliance specifically states “You should not use single-
factor authentication on internet facing services, such as remote access, if 
it can lead to access to personal data. Use multi-factor authentication, or 
other comparably secure access controls”1. 

 

The acquisition of S. Walsh & Sons Limited took place four years and 
three months prior to the incident. GRS (Roadstone) Limited had the 
means and ability to deploy the technology, yet this was not undertaken. 

1 Ransomware and data protection compliance | ICO 
2 Vulnerability scanning tools and services - NCSC.GOV.UK 
 

The ICO exists to empower you through information. 

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF 
T. 0303 123 1113 
ico.org.uk 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The lack of additional security measures in place on the Remote Desktop 
solution meant that with a single compromised credential, the Threat 
Actor was able to gain entry to the GRS (Roadstone) Limited network. 
 

 

•  GRS (Roadstone) Limited were not conducting security testing as 

per Article 32 (1) (d). 

 
GRS (Roadstone) Limited were not conducting any formalised testing on 
their IT infrastructure prior to the incident. This included a lack of any 
vulnerability scanning or penetration testing. The group operates across 
41 sites in the UK, which given the size and scale of the organisation 
there was a clear need for regular assessment of the IT infrastructure. 
Once inside the network, the Threat Actor escalated privileges and 
performed lateral movement by exploiting a documented Common 
Vulnerabilities and Exposure that had been published over two years 
before the incident. For this vulnerability there were relatively 
straightforward remedial steps which could have been taken. Had GRS 
(Roadstone) Limited conducted periodic vulnerability assessments of their 
network, this threat would almost certainly have been identified and the 
risk mitigated. 
 
Both the ICO1 and NCSC2 have produced extensive guidance on 
vulnerability scanning. The NCSC recommend that it is conducted at least 
once every month. 
 
Remedial steps taken by GRS (Roadstone) Limited 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by GRS (Roadstone) Limited in light of this incident. In particular, 
offering a credit monitoring service along with paying for new driving 
licences and passports to affected data subjects. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to 
GRS (Roadstone) Limited in relation to the infringements of articles of the 
UK GDPR set out above. 
 
 
 
 

1 Ransomware and data protection compliance | ICO 
2 Vulnerability scanning tools and services - NCSC.GOV.UK 
 

The ICO exists to empower you through information. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Actions taken by the Data Controller 

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF 
T. 0303 123 1113 
ico.org.uk 

 
Following the incident, GRS (Roadstone) Limited have taken a number of 
steps to improve the security posture of their IT infrastructure. These 
include: 
 

•  Deployment of vulnerability management tools 
•  Centralised logging 
•  Increased employee security awareness through additional training 
•  A significant increase in the number of applications requiring Multi 

Factor Authentication 

 
Further action recommended 
 
From a wider organisational perspective, there were several issues with 
policies and documents that were in place at the time of the incident. 

 

•  There was no Incident Response plan at the time of the incident. 
While not a mandatory document, when considering the “state of 
the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context 
and purposes of processing” this is something GRS (Roadstone) 
Limited could, and should have had available to support first 
responders. A draft of this document has been created by GRS 
(Roadstone) Limited, however it should now be implemented, tested 
and reviewed periodically. 

 
•  The Data Breach Policy makes multiple references to an appointed 

Data Protection Officer. It has been established that GRS 
(Roadstone) Limited do not in fact have an appointed Data 
Practitioner Officer; greater clarity around who and how breaches 
are handled should be clearly documented for all stakeholders 
related to the organisation. 

 

