1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00210/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In the sanctioning procedure PS/00210/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to EUSKALTEL, S.A. (hereinafter the claimed), given the
complaint filed by Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant), and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The affected party on 01/25/2019 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The letter is directed against the defendant being the
reasons on which you base your claim, in summary, the following: on 12/17/2018
acquired a telephone in the aforementioned company, also requesting a duplicate of the
SIM card of your phone number; on 12/19/2018 he received a delivery note with the data
of a lady from Vitoria, so I called the company to tell them, requesting
the one that destroyed it and informing him that they would send him the correct delivery note; for the
above filed a claim with the entity's Claims Department at
assume that his delivery note would have been sent to Mrs. Vitoria; on 12/22/2018
received a whatsapp from a man informing him that he had received his delivery note,
sending you a photo of it; on 12/28/2018 received a phone call from
Claims Department to resolve your claim and apologize
for what happened, although they refused to send the resolution in writing; subsequently
received an envelope with a delivery note but from his mobile phone, since the delivery note of the
The duplicate of the SIM is the one in the photo that the third party had sent him by whatsapp.

Provides:

- Copy of whatsapp
- Claim before Euskaltel

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 02/26/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the claimant of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required so that within a month it would send to the Agency determined
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the claim and
its transfer to the claimed entity.

On 05/22/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit the claim for processing
filed by the claimant against the respondent.

THIRD: On 07/09/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations on 07/23/2019 stating, in summary: that the requirement of
information received on 02/27/2019 was answered by the DPD of the entity; that he
The incident that occurred was caused by the actions of a supplier, adopting the
timely measures at the time the claim was filed; that he
claimed has no responsibility in the incident being responsible the
provider as the person in charge of the treatment who has recognized his responsibility in
the facts.

FIFTH: On 08/21/2019, the instructor of the procedure agreed to open
a period of practical tests, agreeing on the following:

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection services that are part of the file.
- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
PS/00210/2019 presented by EUSKALTEL and the documentation that they
accompanies.
- Request from the claimant documentation that is in their possession related to
sanctioning procedure that for any reason had not been provided in the
time of the complaint or any other manifestation in relation to the facts
denounced.

SIXTH: On 11/18/2019, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense of
that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanctioned
EUSKALTEL for violation of the article for a violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation a fine of €50,000
(fifty thousand euros). Likewise, an Annex was attached containing the list of the
documents in the file in order to obtain a copy of those deemed
convenient.

On 12/12/2019, the EUSKALTEL representation presented a letter in which it reiterated
the allegations made during the procedure and in addition to the responsibility and
of the measures adopted by the entity emphasizing that everything had been due to a
unintentional and isolated human error; the bad faith act of the claimant
initially demanded a payment not to file a claim with the Agency; the
origin of the file of the file, subsidiarily the warning and if not
the previous requests were considered the reduction of the amount to be imposed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

SEVENTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 12/03/2018 it has entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the affected party in which she claims to the entity, in summary, the absence of
confidentiality in the treatment of your data.

 SECOND: A copy of the claimant's ID number ***NIF.1 has been provided.

THIRD: Whatsapp record received by the claimant on 12/22/2018 sent from
the number ***TELEPHONE.1 in which the following text appears:

"Hello! I am writing to tell you that he has bequeathed me a SIM card with a
documentation in which your data appears. The card is mine, but they will have
confused with the sheet they send next to it. I attach it to you. Not if they will have you
sent mine”

Likewise, there is a WhatsApp of 12/27/2018 in which the following texts appear:

“I don't think so, now I'll look at it when I get home”

“Excuse me, in order to file a claim with the AEPD I need to attach a
screenshot that you received my data, I have to ask your permission so that
can attach it. Do you give me your permission?”

"Yes for me perfect"

"Thank you very much"

FOURTH: There is a screenshot provided in which there is a photograph of Albaran
of delivery in which the personal data of the claimant appears: name and
surnames, address, NIF, landline and mobile phone; the data of the shipment: delivery note number,
shipment, number of packages, shipping warehouse, delivery note date, etc.; entity data
sender EUSKALTEL; Shipping concept: 2FF/3FF/4 triple cut SIM card

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
resolve this procedure.

Yo

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

The facts denounced are specified in the sending by the claimed of the
personal data, included in the delivery note of the duplicate of the
SIM card, to a third party violating the duty of confidentiality.

Article 5, Principles related to the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)”

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

From the documentation provided, it can be deduced that the respondent sent a
third party SIM card with documentation containing the data of the claimant
(name, surnames, NIF, telephone, address, etc).

III

It is necessary to underline that the third party to which EUSKALTEL sent such
documentation had access and knowledge of the personal data communicated,
since -as stated in the proven facts- the third party contacted
telephone with the claimant to inform her of what happened.

Thus, the claimant stated that on 12/22/2018 she received a whatsapp from a man
in which he was informed that he had received his delivery note, sending him an image of it;
incident that has also been confirmed by the claimed.

However, in a letter of allegations, EUSKALTEL has stated its lack of
responsibility in the facts claimed since the loss of confidentiality
of the claimant's data is due to the action attributable to the delivery provider
of SIMs.

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

The defendant, once the appropriate investigations have been carried out on the
incidence produced, it was determined that there had not been a massive crossing
of data but a specific and involuntary event as a result of the actions of the
DHL EXEL SUPLY CHAIN supplier contracted for these functions and only
responsible for the facts, who confirmed the error produced during the process
manual inserting when inserting the delivery notes in the wrong envelope.

It must be stated that in a case similar to the one claimed, the High Court
Nacional upheld the Appeal filed, in Judgment dated 12/23/2013, indicating
the following: "The facts for which the fine appealed here was imposed are contracted
that, on January 5, 2011, a person (who later filed a complaint with the
Data Protection Agency), had received in your email account
an insurance policy, accompanied by the particular conditions, in the name of a
third party and issued by MAPFRE.

            
And so, for this reason, the Data Protection Agency considered the
Article 10 of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on Data Protection
of a Personal Nature, for contravention of the duty of secrecy and proper custody
of the personal data, given that the data of that third party came to
knowledge of the complainant.

In opposition to the aforementioned decision, the appellant indicates that the
sending an insurance policy referring to a third party, in the email of the
complainant, there was an involuntary error in the process of mechanizing the data of
the address of the former at the time of complying with your request for referral of
a duplicate of your insurance policy.

Specifically, it indicates that there was a mere punctual and isolated mistake by
part of the processing company that managed that request for a duplicate policy. And says
that said error did not cause any damage to either the claimant or the policyholder
nor did it benefit MAPFRE.” (…)

Adding, in turn, in its Fourth Law Basis the following:

“In a case similar to the one raised in this appeal, in which we have to
put in relation the concurrence of a human error, concrete and isolated, and the
principle of guilt (even under the title of "simple non-compliance") has been pronounced
this Chamber in its Judgment of December 14, 2006 (appeal orders 136/2005).

In said Judgment we stated that:

«The resolution of this appeal involves remembering, first of all, that the
Guilt is an indispensable element for the sanction that has been imposed on the
plaintiff, as prescribed by article 1301.1 of Law 30/1992 of 26
November, which establishes that they can only be sanctioned for constitutive acts
of administrative infraction those responsible for them, even as a simple
non-observance

It must be emphasized that this simple non-compliance cannot be
understood that in the sanctioning administrative law governs the responsibility

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

objective. Indeed, in sanctioning matters the principle of culpability governs
(SSTC 15/1999, of July 4; 76/1990, of April 26; and 246/1991, of April 19).
December), which means that there must be some kind of fraud or guilt. What
says the judgment of the Supreme Court of January 23, 1998, "... one can speak of
a decided jurisprudential line that rejects in the sanctioning scope of the
Administration strict liability, requiring the concurrence of fraud or
fault, in line with the interpretation of the STC 76/1990, of April 26, when stating that
the principle of culpability can be inferred from the principles of legality and prohibition
of excess (article 25 of the Constitution) or of the demands inherent to the State of
Law".

In this same line, the Supreme Court considers that there is imprudence
whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is, when the subject
offender does not behave with due diligence. And the degree of diligence required
shall be determined in each case in view of the concurrent circumstances,
such as the special value of the protected legal asset, the professionalism required of the
offender etc.

Well, the application of the aforementioned Doctrine to the specific and unique case
prosecuted in this proceeding has led this Chamber to conclude that in the aforementioned
conduct of the plaintiff outlined in the proven facts of the original resolution
challenged does not concur the aforementioned element of guilt when determining whether
it has incurred in a breach of the duty of secrecy of article 10 of the Law
Organic Law 15/1999 imputed to it, since that is how it should be understood when said
appellant makes the mere mistake of sending the contract to the address of a client
signed with another client, without fault being appreciated, even to that minimal degree
provided for in the aforementioned Law 30/1992, in what refers to the essential data of disclosing to
a third party the personal data that it treats in its files of that client
holder of said contract who was not even the one who denounced it, but that other, and, as
above has been exposed, for other reasons. Consequently, there is no lack of
diligence in the appellant with respect to the imputed conduct of
breach of the duty of secrecy, since it only made the mistake of sending the
contract of a client to a domicile that was not his".

The question, therefore, must be resolved in accordance with the principles of the
punitive law given that mere human error cannot give rise, by itself (and
especially when it occurs in isolation), to the attribution of consequences
sanctioning; because, if done in this way, a liability system would be incurred.
objective prohibited by our constitutional order.(...)

This conclusion is, in the opinion of the Chamber, contrary to the principle of presumption
of innocence…and the principle of guilt, which leads us to the estimation of the
this appeal and the annulment of the contested act.”

Therefore, as things are, it is not appreciated, in this case, breach of duty
secret. However, the reported entity is reminded that it must
take extreme precautions and admonish your supplier in order to avoid conduct
as described in the submitted claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria of

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE EUSKALTEL, S.A., with NIF A48766695, for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to EUSKALTEL, S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

