1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00455/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: MADRID MUNICIPAL CONSUMER INSTITUTE (hereinafter, the
claimant) dated June 26, 2020 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

The claim is directed against STRM REPARACIONES EXPRES, S.L. with NIF
B86904315 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the breach of the web
http://www.strm-electricidad.es as it lacks a Privacy Policy.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/06543/2020, transfer of
said claim to the claimed, on August 13, 2020, to proceed to
its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations for the protection of
data.

THIRD: On February 4, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: On April 12, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
impose STRM REPARACIONES EXPRÉS, S.L., with NIF B86904315, for a
infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

FIFTH: On April 20, 2021, arguments are presented to the proposal for
resolution issued, indicating that using the Facilita tool and following the
recommendations of the guide have been implemented, specifically:

1. The way of displaying the information has been changed. At this time it has been im-
supplemented the web page to have better accessibility than in a document
pdf. The web page created is called legal-notice.html and is located at the root of
the domains. Every web page has at least one reference to that page.
na. The page can be accessed from the main menu or from the footer.
na through the link “Privacy Policy”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

2. The legal basis for data processing has been added and the de-

missing rights.

3. Following the suggestion of the informative guide the data protection policy
It has been divided into two zones. An area with basic information about protection
of data that includes Responsible, Purpose, Legitimation, Recipients and
Rights. Each one of these epigraphs has a link to +info… where you can find
Fill in the information for each heading.

4. Also following the suggestions of the guide, a simple language is maintained that
allow users to easily understand everything that may or may not happen with
your personal information.

5. There are internal links on the page to quickly redirect to each section

information and facilitate user navigation.

6. These modifications have been implemented in all service domains of
STRM Reparaciones Express SL in particular in the domains strm-electricity-
d.es, strmantena.es and mstr.es

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is stated that the website http://www.strm-electricidad.es lacks
Privacy Policy.

SECOND: The defendant in writing of allegations states that the website has
been corrected in response to the request received from this Agency in August
2020.

THIRD: By following the link to the website that is the subject of this claim,
the following privacy policy could be read.

"1. RESPONSIBLE FOR DATA PROCESSING The data controller
of data is STRM Reparaciones Express S.L. and will be responsible for the treatment and
data protection

2. PURPOSE OF THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA PURPOSE
DESCRIPTION For the generation of budgets and invoices on services
borrowed.

Personal and tax data are stored, protected and processed to conform
the necessary documents for the fulfillment of the social contract that binds us to the
users.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

Respond to requests or requests that you make through the Customer Service channels.
Customer We only process personal data that is strictly necessary to
manage or resolve your request or request.

Invoices, budgets, clarifications or claims. Usability analysis and
quality to improve our services

Sometimes we carry out actions and quality surveys aimed at knowing the
degree of satisfaction of our customers and users and detect those areas in which
that we can improve.

The personal data of users will be kept later, duly
kept and protected during the time in which responsibilities could arise
derived from the treatment, in compliance with the regulations in force in each
moment.

Once the possible actions are prescribed in each case, we will proceed to the suppression
of personal data.

3. RIGHTS OF USERS

We undertake to respect the confidentiality of personal data and to
guarantee the exercise of user rights.

The rights can be exercised at no cost by writing us an email
email to the email address contacto@strm.es, simply indicating the
reason for the request and the right you want to exercise.

If we deem it necessary as a means of identification, we may
request a copy of an identity document.

In particular, regardless of the purpose or legal basis under which
process the data, users have the right to:

1. Request access to the user's personal data.

2. Request the rectification of data that is available.

By providing personal data, by any means, the user guarantees that they are true.
and exact.

Any loss or damage caused by reason of a communication of information
erroneous, inaccurate or incomplete in the registration forms, it will be the responsibility
exclusive to the user.

Only personal data will be provided, not those of third parties, except as permitted in this
Privacy and Cookie Policy.

3. Request the deletion of data to the extent that they are no longer necessary for the
purpose for which they were assigned.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

4. Request the limitation of the treatment, which means that in certain cases
may request the temporary suspension of data processing or its
preservation beyond the necessary time when necessary.

Once consent has been provided for the processing of data for any
purpose, there is also the right to withdraw it at any time.

To make use of any of the above rights you must make your request to
through the email address contacto@strm.es.

Finally, we inform you of the right to file a claim with the authority of
Control in relevant data protection matters, in particular, before the Agency
Spanish Data Protection (https://www.agpd.es/portalwebAGPD/index-ides-
idphp.php) “

FOURTH: From reading said privacy policy it emerged that although the
claimed had proceeded to correct the web page by adding the checkbox
acceptance of the policies in your form, in response to the request of this
Agency, said web page continued to have deficiencies, since it did not
correctly informed about the legal basis of the data processing and it was not
mentioned two of the rights that the data protection regulations of a nature
personal recognizes, that they are the right of suppression and the right of portability.

FIFTH: The respondent in response to the proposed resolution has directed a
writing stating that you have proceeded to make a new update of your
privacy policy using the Facilita tool.

SIXTH: It has been verified that the claimed entity has proceeded to correct all
the deficiencies of the privacy policy detected in the aforementioned website,
following the following link:

 http://www.strm-electricidad.es/aviso-legal.html#proteccion-de-data

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the GDPR and
in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), under the rubric
“Definitions”, provides that:
“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;
2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”
Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal through forms included in a web page constitutes a treatment
of data, with respect to which the data controller must comply with the
provided for in article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that has moved since May 25
of 2018 to article 5 of the Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of Protection
of Personal Data.
In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, it has:
  “1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.
3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.
For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:
"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.
2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:
a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.
b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.
Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;”
(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”
“i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;"
Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD establishes that:
 “The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”
In turn, article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered
mild has:
  “They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:
a)
Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right
of information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the articles
13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”
v

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

In this case, it has been found that the website http://www.strm-electricidad.es does not
had an adequate Privacy Policy, but it has been verified that it has
recently proceeded to its update.
Despite this, it should be noted that the warning for the data continues to be maintained.
data that were collected without adequately informing clients, which
constitutes an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD. However, it will be a
warning without the need to adopt measures on the part of the defendant, since it is already
has proceeded by this to the generation of an adequate privacy policy.

SAW

This infraction is sanctioned with a warning, in accordance with article 58.2.b)
of the RGPD, considering that the administrative fine that could be levied in accordance with
the provisions of article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden
for the claimed, whose main activity is not directly linked to the
processing of personal data, since there is no record of the commission of any infringement
above regarding data protection.

In view of the foregoing, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection

RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS STRM REPARACIONES EXPRES, S.L. with NIF B86904315
for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to STRM REPARACIONES EXPRES,
SL with NIF B86904315

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

