1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00274/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The Superior Police Headquarters of Catalonia, dated February 4,
2021, sent the Notification Act of an alleged violation of the regulations of
data protection to the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The following is indicated in the letter of remission of the Minutes, in relation to the matter of
Data Protection:

“Organic Law 2/1986, of March 13, on Security Forces and Bodies, in its
Article 11.1.a) requires the agents of the authority to "ensure compliance with the
Laws and general provisions, executing the orders received from the Authorities.
des, within the scope of their respective competences”

Within the framework of the functions related to documentation of foreigners, as well as
that for the issuance of the national identity document, and as it happens in di-
various areas of public administration, it is necessary to request a
appointment for the materialization of the different procedures, which is obtained free of charge
through the website https://sede.administracionespublicas.gob.es/.

On this website you can get an appointment, anywhere in the national territory,
for the issuance/renewal of documents, collection of identity cards from ex-
foreigners (TIE), asylum applications, invitation letters, fingerprinting for the experience
issuance of cards, certificates of registration of citizens of the European Union, as well as
for another series of administrative procedures.

The fact of the suspension of administrative deadlines due to the declaration of the
state of alarm throughout the national territory derived from the pandemic caused
by Covid-19 added to the fact that, during the current year 2020, they have been responsible for
renewal of their documents to foreign citizens who availed themselves of the pro-
process of regularization of their administrative situation that was implemented in the year
2015, has resulted in a situation of congestion in police services
related to the materialization of different procedures and files in matters of
immigration, which have overwhelmed the capacity of the immigration offices of the Police.
National Society in the province of Barcelona which have had to be reinforced, in
As far as personal and technical means are concerned, in order to respond to the strong
commands experienced in such a short space of time.

In this context, the Unit against Immigration Networks and Falsehoods attached to
the Provincial Immigration and Borders Brigade of Barcelona of the Superior Headquarters
Police of Catalonia has detected, as a result of receiving multiple claims

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

complaints and complaints from users as well as agencies and law firms related to
ned with the documentary procedures of foreigners, that this saturation, in addition to
for the reasons stated, is also motivated by the practices that are carried out
responsible for various establishments open to the public, mainly
booths, and/or individuals who advertise themselves to obtain appointments prior to
exchange of different economic amounts and that, to achieve greater profit,
saturate the computing platform in a way that causes users to have
very difficult to obtain a free appointment with the administration and they are forced
to require their services.

By going to these places, users have been forced to provide their personal data.
documents, both in writing and by providing a copy of their identification documentation.
goes, to the employees or people who offer this service so that, with said data,
can reserve an appointment with the administration, since said appointments are nominated.
and it is not possible to appear at the police documentation offices with justification.
appointments that do not correspond to the person who is going to carry out the requested procedure.
do.

This transfer of your personal data is made without any guarantee or identification
of the person in charge of the treatment of the same, as well as without informing or obtaining the
consent of the users in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 3/2018,
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights, and the Rule-
(EU) 2016/679, on your rights of access to your personal data, rectification
suppression, deletion or limitation of its treatment incurring for it, in the opinion of this Unit
police authority, in a minor infringement of article 74.a of the aforementioned L.O. 3/2018, without prejudice
that with these behaviors they may also be infringing some other of the
precepts of the L.O. 3/2018.

Based on all of the above, on 01/14/2021, by police officers
assigned to this Unit, an administrative inspection was carried out in the call center called
mined "*** LOCUTORIO.1", located in *** DIRECTION.1 (Barcelona), in which the
The existence of numerous client records (handwritten papers, copies of documents,
documentation, NIE prior appointment receipts), which were stored in said establishment.
foundation with the supposed purpose of obtaining prior appointments to carry out
of different procedures, extending in the place the obligatory act of inspection whose
a copy is attached to this document.

Inside the establishment, a precautionary intervention was carried out on 9 documents
data containing personal data (name, surnames, document, telephone, etc.), per-
belonging to third parties, in order to carry out the corresponding management
police disputes with the holders of that documentation.

Once the corresponding procedures had been carried out, the citation and post-
taking statements from various people whose data appears in the documentation
intervened, which have expressed that they were not informed or provided con-
express or implied sentiment regarding the provisions of article 6.1.a
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27
2016, by providing your personal data to those in charge of the establishment for the
obtaining an appointment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

Based on the foregoing, in the opinion of the interveners, the owner of the establishment, both
personally or through your employees, you would be infringing one or more
rio precepts of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantee of Digital Rights, as well as Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
Therefore, on 02/03/2021, previously mentioned, he appeared in these offices.
dences, the owner of the establishment called A.A.A. with NIE ***NIE.1.”

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is transferred
claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
digital data (hereinafter, LOPDGDD). The request for information on the
many statements were received, on March 29, 2021, as recorded
in the Notice of Receipt issued by the Post Office, without any reply having been received.
na.

THIRD: On 06/03/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
Data agreed to admit the claim for processing.

FOURTH: On 06/17/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
violation of article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data
(hereinafter, RGPD), typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: There were two notification attempts of the agreement to initiate this
sanctioning procedure through postal mail on 07/21/2021 and 07/26/2021,
but they were "Returned to origin due to surplus (not withdrawn in the office)", as recorded
in the postal notice.

Finally, the notification was made through an announcement published in the Bulletin
Official of the State on 08/09/2021 and a hearing period of TEN DAYS is granted
SKILLFUL to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it considers
convenient, in accordance with the provisions of articles 73 and 76 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

SIXTH: The respondent did not make any objections to the agreement to initiate the procedure.

Article 64.2 f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed in the
agreement to open the procedure- establishes that if no allegations are made
within the term established on the content of the initiation agreement, when it
contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility, it may
be considered a motion for a resolution.

In the present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

the respondent has not made allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in
attention to what is established in article 64.2.f LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

SEVENTH: The agreement to initiate the procedure agreed in the fourth point of the part
dispositive “INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for the purposes of evidence, the
claims submitted by claimants and the information and documentation
obtained by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection in the phase of
information prior to the agreement for admission to processing of the claim”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The respondent collects data from natural persons who come to its
booth to request an appointment for administrative procedures, without providing the precise information to
interested parties in accordance with current regulations on the protection of
personal information.

SECOND: The Spanish Data Protection Agency has notified the respondent
the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure, but this has not
presented allegations or evidence that contradicts the facts denounced.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal on the occasion of the request for an appointment to carry out procedures
administrative constitutes a treatment of data, for which the person in charge
of the treatment must comply with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD,
providing the interested parties with all the information indicated in said precept.

In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, indicates that:

"one. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
tant;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests
swindles of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the data controller plans further data processing
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:

"one. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.
b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
to) (…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;
c) (...)
d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;
(...)
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular".

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD establishes that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

In turn, article 72.1 h) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

“They are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:
h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

v

In this case, the respondent has not presented arguments or evidence that
contradict the facts denounced within the period given for it.

This Agency has confirmed that the actions of the respondent are not in accordance with the
data protection regulations, since it does not inform customers about the treatment
of the personal data provided by them, as required in article 13 of the
RGPD, indicated in the legal basis III.

Thus, in accordance with the facts exposed, we are faced with a
infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, by the claimed party.

SAW

In accordance with article 58.2 d), for the commission of this infraction it is appropriate
address a warning when collecting personal data from customers and
consider that the administrative fine that could be levied in accordance with the provisions of
Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for the
claimed, since there is no record of the commission of any previous infringement in terms of
Data Protection.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, in the
resolution is required to the claimed, as responsible for the treatment, the
adequacy of the information offered to users whose personal data is
collect from them the requirements contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD, as well as
such as the provision of means of proof accrediting compliance with the
required

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS A.A.A., with NIF ***NIE.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: REQUIRE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIE.1, under the provisions of the
article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten business days from this act
of notification accredits before this body the adoption of measures to facilitate
information to the people whose personal data it collects, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 13 of the RGPD.

THIRD
 

 : NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

