1/27

 File No.: PS/00372/2021

IMI Reference: A56ID 122865- Case Register 128401

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) filed a claim with the
Polish data protection authority. The claim is directed against
GLOVOAPP23, S..L. with NIF B66362906 (hereinafter, GLOVOAPP). The reasons in
on which the claim is based are as follows:

After discovering that his home was not within the scope of action of the
GLOVOAPP distributors (information that is only obtained once one is opened once
account and enter your personal data), the complaining party requested the deletion of
your account and personal data, up to two times 5 days apart, but
got no response. In addition, it states that the forms found
available in the GLOVO app for the revocation of consent is only
They are in Spanish, not in English or Polish.

Along with the claim, provide:

- Copy of an email sent on November 7, 2019 at 12:10 a.m.
from the address liveops.comms@glovoapp.com to ***USER.1@gmail.com, with
the following message: “Thank you for contacting Glovo! We have just received your
message. We will respond to it in 24 hours. Thank you for your patience during this
waiting period”. This email responds to a message dated November 6, 2019 at
23:10 hrs in which it is claimed that the delivery area is too small.

- Copy of an email sent on November 12, 2019 at 8:56 a.m.
from the address liveops.comms@glovoapp.com to ***USER.1@gmail.com, with
the following message: “Thank you for contacting Glovo! We have just received your
message. We will respond to it in 24 hours. Thank you for your patience during this
waiting period”. This email responds to a message dated November 12, 2019 at
8:56 hrs in which he explains that his requests are not being attended to. Warns that it has already
notified to the data protection authority and awaits immediate deletion
of your account.

- Copy of an email sent on November 12, 2019 at 9:43 a.m.
from the address liveops.comms@glovoapp.com to ***USER.1@gmail.com, with
the following message: “Thank you for contacting Glovo! We have just received your
message. We will respond to it in 24 hours. Thank you for your patience during this
waiting period”. This email responds to a message dated November 12, 2019 at
8:43 a.m. in which it is explained that a week ago he sent an email

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/27

requesting the deletion of your account and you have not received a response, but you have received a
information document. It also warns that it will notify the protection authority
of data that does not have data deletion request forms in Polish, only in
Spanish.

- Copy of an email sent on November 13, 2019 at 7:39 p.m.
from the address liveops.comms@glovoapp.com to ***USER.1@gmail.com, with
the following message: “Thank you for contacting Glovo! We have just received your
message. We will respond to it in 24 hours. Thank you for your patience during this
waiting period”. This email responds to a message dated November 13, 2019 at
18:39 hrs in which you request to stop processing your personal data immediately and
are deleted from all databases. In addition, you request the deletion of your account
within two business days.

SECOND: Through the "Internal Market Information System" (hereinafter
IMI), regulated by Regulation (EU) No. 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of October 25, 2012 (IMI Regulation), whose objective is to promote the
cross-border administrative cooperation, mutual assistance between States
members and the exchange of information, as of April 27, 2020, had entry
in this Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) the aforementioned claim. He
transfer of this claim to the AEPD is carried out in accordance with the provisions
in article 56 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of Physical Persons in what
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data
(hereinafter, GDPR), taking into account its cross-border nature and that this
Agency is competent to act as main control authority, given that
GLOVOAPP has its headquarters and main establishment in Spain.

This Agency accepted, on May 18, 2020, to be the competent authority
to act as main supervisory authority (LSA), in accordance with the provisions of
Article 56.1 of the GDPR, regarding the right of deletion. However,
proposed to reject the part related to the forms, since its Inspection services
verified that the data protection forms are downloaded in the language of
the city that is selected on the home page, and, consequently, the forms
in Polish are available if a Polish city is chosen.

The proposing authority raised the possibility of granting the complaining party the
possibility of presenting evidence that the forms were only available in
Spanish language at the time of filing the claim, since the
The findings of the AEPD refuted the complaint of the claimant at the time the
that the verification was carried out (that is, five months after the presentation of the
the claim). They commented that they would send a letter to the complaining party requesting
said rectification, and that, if in 7 days from the delivery of the same not
received a response, they would accept the dismissal of that part of the claim.

On August 11, 2020, this Agency received an email from the
Polish authority, reporting that no response had been received from the
claimant, and that, consequently, the part of the
claim related to the forms, reducing this to the question related to
the exercise of the right of deletion (art. 17 GDPR).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/27

According to the information incorporated into the IMI System, in accordance with the
established in article 60 of the GDPR, acts as a "control authority
data subject”, in addition to the Polish data protection authority, the data protection authorities
control of Portugal, Italy and France. All of them under article 4.22 of the GDPR,
given that data subjects residing in these Member States are likely to be
are substantially affected by the treatment object of this procedure.

THIRD: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to GLOVOAPP, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on August 20, 2020 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On September 18, 2020, this Agency received a written response
indicating:

 That the origin of the incident lies in the fact that, unlike what
the complaining party indicates, the deletion of their personal data was not requested
through the form enabled for this purpose on its web portal, but through
a chat with the Customer Service Agent (SAC) in charge of
the management of orders and incidents related to them. In
instead of using the different visible, clear and specific channels that the
company at your disposal, both on its website and in its application, to
exercise personal rights, i.e. the addresses legal@glovoapp.com and
gdpr@glovoapp.com, as well as the different forms of exercise of
rights published on the web and accessible in the application in the section
"Contact", requested the deletion of your data through a channel
wrong, and not intended for this purpose.

 That your SAC assigns an agent in charge of responding to users in
depending on the territory in which the user is located, in order to be able to
respond in the same language in which your request is launched. In this case, at
claiming party was not assigned any city or territory, since, by not
having placed any order through the 'app', he could not be located in
function of the territory. For this reason, given the impossibility of locating the
user in a specific city, the system did not transmit requests for
deletion of data to the attention of any SAC agent, receiving the
user only the answer that the SAC generates automatically before
that an agent be assigned to respond to users.

 That, as a result of the transfer of the claim, they have proceeded to eliminate the data
personal information of the claimant (they clarify that they only had their address
e-mail, since he did not manage to place any order), and they have been

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/27

contacted to inform you of this, and of the conservation of your data
in a state of blocking, among other things, to defend against claims
(provide a copy of the e-mail, dated September 16, 2020). They explain
that the reason for not responding to your request was the use of a
wrong channel to exercise your right.

 That, in order to avoid the occurrence of this type of incident in the future, they have
sent a reminder to all agents about the need to send to the
office of the Data Protection Officer all communications that
may include a request to exercise rights, even if this request is
hidden or not obvious. They have also reported to the department in charge
of the SAC the inconvenience related to the allocation of requests by
part of users who have not placed orders and/or who have not indicated
a country or an address when registering in the app. As long as I don't know
find a technical solution to the problem, your agents will control, manually and
periodically, applications that have not been automatically assigned to
no agent.



They also deny the fact, denounced by the complaining party, that they did not
forms are available in your language, and, also, that it is necessary to open
an account to know the geographic area of service availability,
since the shipment coverage is accessible through a URL
dedicated (https://glovoapp.com/es/map in Spain, for example).

FOURTH: On December 11, 2020, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FIFTH: On October 5, 2020, the Director of the AEPD adopted a
draft decision to archive the proceedings. Following the established process
in article 60 of the GDPR, that same day this
draft decision and the authorities concerned were informed that they had
four weeks from that time to raise pertinent objections and
motivated. Within the period granted for this purpose, the control authority of Poland
presented its pertinent and reasoned objections to the effects of the provisions of the
Article 60 of the GDPR, in the sense that it considered that a file of
the proceedings but rather that the case be analyzed and a warning issued since
there had been a breach of the GDPR. For its part, the supervisory authority
Portugal filed its pertinent and reasoned objections to the same effect,
understanding that GLOVOAPP should be penalized for having produced a
GDPR violation.

SIXTH: On September 3, 2021, the Director of the AEPD adopted a
revised draft decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings. following the
process established in article 60 of the GDPR, on September 6, 2021,
transmitted through the IMI System this revised draft decision and they were made
let the authorities concerned know that they had two weeks from that moment
to formulate pertinent and reasoned objections. Within the term for this purpose, the
control authorities concerned did not raise relevant and reasoned objections
in this regard, for which reason it is considered that all the control authorities are in agreement.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/27

accordance with said revised draft decision and are bound by it, accordingly
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of article 60 of the GDPR.

SEVENTH: On March 31, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against GLOVOAPP, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 12 of the GDPR, in relation to the
Article 17 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

The initiation agreement was notified in accordance with the rules established in the LPACAP on
April 11, 2022, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

EIGHTH: On April 19, 2022, GLOVOAPP files a brief through the
which requests the extension of the term to adduce allegations.

NINTH: On April 21, 2022, the examining body agrees to the extension
of term requested up to a maximum of five days, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 32.1 of the LPACAP.

The extension agreement is notified to GLOVOAPP that same day, as stated in the
acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

TENTH: On May 3, 2022, it is received at this Agency, on time and
form, writing of GLOVOAPP in which it alleges allegations to the start agreement in the
which, in summary, stated that:

FIRST. - ABOUT GLOVO'S COMPLIANCE WITH THE ATTENTION OF
RIGHTS OF PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA

In the first place, GLOVOAPP refers to the statements presented in the
brief dated September 18, 2020 in relation to the events that occurred
on the management of the right of deletion exercised by the ex-user of Glovo, of
Polish nationality, through the chat managed by the Service Department of
Glovo Customer Service (SAC).

In these statements, GLOVOAPP understands that it became clear that in
At no time did Glovo deny or hinder the exercise of the right to delete
the complaining party for the purposes of the provisions of article 12.2 of the LOPDGDD,
but rather that Glovo showed flagrant flexibility by proceeding to the elimination
of the personal data of the complaining party immediately after receiving the
claim by this Agency, despite not being exercised through the
channels enabled for this purpose at that time (email addresses
legal@glovoapp.com and gdpr@glovoapp.com).

GLOVOAPP also refers to the reasons why it could not proceed to eliminate
the personal data of the complaining party in time (impossibility of locating him in
a specific territory or city for not having placed any order through the
platform and, consequently, impossibility of assigning your request to an agent
specific to the SAC), which cannot be understood, in any case, as a will

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/27

de Glovo of not wanting to comply with its duty of care of the right of deletion
exercised by the claimant, for the purposes of article 74.c) of the LOPDGDD.

Moreover, GLOVOAPP records that the right of deletion of the party
claimant was immediately attended to for the reasons that were already expressed in
said brief dated September 18, 2020, complementing it with a shipment
mass to all the agents that are part of the SAC reminding them of the need to
immediately send to the Data Protection Officer any exercise of
rights that could arrive through the chat.

Therefore, it understands that it is clearly demonstrated that GLOVOAPP, as
responsible for treatment, already had insured and continues to insure in their policies
the satisfaction of the rights of the interested parties, regardless of the
how they are exercised.

It affirms that GLOVOAPP regularly and constantly monitors all the channels with which
that has contact with the user (web forms, application chat, addresses
email, postal mail, social network profiles, among others) in such a way
so that, in case a data protection right is exercised, it is
properly cared for.

It understands that proof of this is that, since the claim by the claimant
sent by this Agency, GLOVOAPP has not received any other claim for
part of it or of any other control authority of the countries in which it operates
for not having met a data protection right or, especially, a
right of deletion. And that all these actions of GLOVOAPP cannot
be understood in another way than as a clear will of GLOVOAPP to comply with
the personal data protection regulations.

For all these reasons, GLOVOAPP considers that the Agency errs in penalizing it with a
warning, since the actions that occurred cannot be understood as a
clear will to breach the data protection regulations in the form
of not wanting to attend to the right of deletion of the complaining party, being necessary
decree the file of the same.

SECOND. - ON THE PRONOUNCEMENT OF THIS AGENCY ON THE
ARCHIVE OF PERFORMANCES

GLOVOAPP expressly mentions the resolution dated October 5,
2020 by which the Director of the AEPD adopted a draft decision to file
the actions that occurred in this procedure.

Although the control authorities concerned in Poland and Portugal submitted
objections to the draft decision, for GLOVOAPP it is clear that said draft
is not adopted by the AEPD without considering that from the proceedings and evidence obtained
to date do not result in the existence of a breach or in damages and
Serious damage to the rights and interests of the complaining party.

GLOVOAPP considers that the AEPD, as the main control authority of this
procedure, should have upheld the decision taken at the time, being the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/27

warning an unnecessary and inappropriate sanction for this case, since
Glovo at no time has shown a willingness not to attend to the right of
deletion of the complaining party, especially when it has shown clear and flexible flexibility
unequivocally deleting your data immediately after receiving the
claim by the AEPD, despite having exercised this right by a
channel not enabled for this purpose.

In short, GLOVOAPP considers that Glovo has not breached the regulations of
data protection, being, for this reason, the filing of the proceedings the most
suitable for the case at hand.

THIRD. – NULLITY OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE ACT DUE TO THE ABSENCE OF THE
NECESSARY ELEMENTS FOR IT TO BE CONSIDERED TO EXIST
INFRINGEMENT

Additionally, GLOVOAPP understands that in no case is Glovo's conduct
punishable in the form of a warning, for the reasons that are exposed to
continuation.

3.1 Absence of the subjective elements of the offence. Nullity of Sanction

GLOVOAPP considers that concurrence should be examined first, or more
exactly the non-concurrence of the fundamental elements and requirements
necessary to be able to impose a sanction in this case.

Thus, the principles that will govern the sanctioning power of the Administration will be,
in general, those of the Sanctioning Administrative Law and in
particular, "the principles of legality, typicity, responsibility, proportionality and
concurrence".

Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, establishes
that the administrative infraction is constituted by the action, understood in the sense
wide range of any action -or omission of the people directed to the production of
a result and that the Legislator himself has typified as an infraction.

In accordance with the foregoing, in order to be faced with an infringement in terms of
protection of personal data there must have been an act or omission
willful or culpable with any degree of negligence. What does this mean? what to
responsible subject could, at least, have demanded a different conduct.

Without intending to subscribe to a compendium of sanctioning law, we can define the
subjective elements such as the different degrees of voluntariness or, when
less, non-observance of due diligence; fraud being the clear exponent of the
willfulness in the commission of the typical action and the simple negligence of the conduct
lacking the necessary care in the fulfillment of the obligations regarding
sanitary.

In this way, it corresponds to the competent body to examine whether the conduct object of
analysis is intentional or culpable, since said assessment is essential to be able to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/27

impose a sanction because they are constitutive elements of the infraction
administrative.

The jurisprudence that we could cite supporting the above statement would be almost
unlimited, so we are only going to refer to the Judgment of October 13,
2005 of the National Court since in it a detailed review of the
sanctioning principles, their evolution and that of the applicable jurisprudential criteria.

Given that the Judgment cited is quite lengthy, and in order not to lengthen
unnecessarily transcribing literally the entire content of it,
We extract below exclusively the paragraphs that we consider most
representative:

"FOURTH (...) the assessment of guilt in the conduct of the offending subject is
a requirement that arises directly from the constitutional principles of the
legal certainty and legality, regarding the exercise of sanctioning powers
of any nature. The principle of guilt constitutes a basic element to the
time to classify the behavior of a person as punishable, that is, it is a
essential element in all administrative illicit (...)

SIXTH (...) In summary, the guilt must be as proven as the conduct
active or omission that is sanctioned, and that proof must be extended not only to the facts
determinants of responsibility but also, where appropriate, those who qualify or
aggravate the offense. (…)”

It is precisely the analysis of guilt that differentiates a system of
strict liability, in which sanctions are exclusively based on the
result, one based on the principle of guilt.

Therefore, GLOVOAPP understands that it can be concluded that the Agreement notified to
GLOVOAPP dispenses with one of the essential elements when it comes to imposing
a sanction (even if it is in the form of a warning), such as the examination of the
guilt, being fully demonstrated that at no time GLOVOAPP
has fraudulently wanted to ignore the right of deletion of the complaining party.
Quite the opposite. Glovo has proceeded immediately to the attention of said
right once transferred by this Agency.

Therefore, GLOVOAPP states that it must be taken into account that the AEPD had to
having carried out this analysis and therefore, not being able to appreciate, in any way
way, an intention to violate the data protection regulations by Glovo (in
the way of wanting to hinder, prevent or not attend to the right to suppress the
complaining party), and having dispensed with the assessment of said spirit as
essential element of the administrative offence, GLOVOAPP understands that the
imposition of a sanction would be invalidated.

3.2. Of the lack of proof that distorts the presumption of innocence of Glovo. Nullity
of sanction

In this sense, it should be noted that, as has been repeatedly pointed out by
jurisprudence, to proceed to the imposition of any administrative sanction is

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/27

prerequisite and inexcusable the existence of a conduct constituting an infringement
administrative. Therefore, the Administration cannot sanction without proving
sufficiently the guilt of the penalized subject, that is, the existence of bad faith
in his conduct. Consequently, it is clear that it is up to the Administration to
burden of proof of the subject's guilt, which must be proven by
any of the means admitted by law.

However, in the case at hand, GLOVOAPP does not know that there is
absolutely no evidence that allows to consider destroyed the
presumption of innocence that, within the administrative-sanctioning scope, is
fully applicable to the relations between the Administration and the administered, as
as countless jurisdictional resolutions have recognized in all areas
hierarchical and territorial.

In this sense, for example, the Judgment of the Superior Court of Justice of 10
June 1994, established: (...) in the exercise of the sanctioning power of the
Public Administrations plays, with full effectiveness, the presumption of
innocence of any person accused of an offense until his guilt has been
been demonstrated. This principle, incorporated in article 24 of our Constitution,
produces the immediate procedural consequence of shifting the burden of proof to the
accuser, and in the case of the sanctioning power, to the Public Administration. Is
she who, in a contradictory procedure, with the participation and audience of the
accused, must supply, collect and provide the evidence, through
the common means that serve as support to the assumption of fact whose classification
as an administrative fault is intended. In the event that such evidentiary activity is not
produced, it is evident that the account or description of the events by the
authority or its agents does not lead to a presumption of veracity that obliges the
defendant to prove his innocence, thus reversing the burden of proof (SSTS of 16
December 1986 and December 26, 1988)”

Likewise, in relation to said lack of evidence and for the purpose of assessing what happened
In the present case, the Judgment of the Supreme Court of 26
December 1983 (RJ 1983\6418), which provided the following: "(...) Regarding
disciplinary measure, it is not enough for the Administration to believe that a person has carried out
certain facts to apply the sanction that corresponds to them, but rather
it is necessary for him to prove that he is indeed the author thereof, and this requirement does not
It can certainly be considered fulfilled with two reports, which (...) do not go beyond being
a subjective appreciation of the person who issued them and that even though he is
enhanced by the quality of its author, cannot be as decisive as the Administration
claims, when the person concerned contradicts it in full detail, and, when it refers to
facts which by their nature could have been easily and definitely proven
or confirmed by the most varied media (...). That in the sanctioning field of
Administrative Law, it is not appropriate to resort to rational indications, or valuations
in conscience, to prove an administrative offense, imposing by
application of the presumption of innocence of the accused, to the Administration that accuses and
sanctions, the burden of proving the reality of the facts that he imputes, and that these are
reproachable to the accused person, given that the presumption of innocence, before
referred to, currently enshrined in art. 24 of the Constitution, can only
be destroyed by a finished proof of guilt SS. From February 16, March 23 and 28
September 1982 (RJ 1982/968, RJ 1982/2324 and RJ 1982/5513), being conditioned

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/27

the legality of administrative sanctions due to the typicity of the offense and the sanction
and by conclusive and unequivocal proof that the sanctioned party is responsible for
that one, recalling the S. of this Chamber of December 23, 1981 (RJ 1981/5453), that the
specific prosecution of an administrative resolution that completes a file
corrective or sanctioning, must be based on the analysis of the challenged fact or act, its
nature and scope, to determine and see if the administrative offense pursued is or
not subsumable in any of the assumptions, types of administrative offense provided for
in the norm that serves as a basis for the estimation of the transgression that is
persecutes and, where appropriate, is sanctioned, prosecution that must be done with a criterion
exclusively legal, since the classification of the administrative offense is not
discretionary power of the Administration or sanctioning authority, but rather
legal activity that requires as an objective assumption the framing of the fact
incriminated in the predetermined type legally as a fault, and cannot be resolved
the responsibility of an administrative infraction by mere presumptions, indications or
conjectures, but by the reality of perfectly accredited facts and
demonstrated (…)”.

This being the case, it is clear that something more must be required of the Agreement than the simple
mention of the legal precepts of the LOPDGDD to which it has previously been made
reference. In this case, GLOVOAPP understands that the AEPD is limited to reviewing
in the Agreement the background of the file but, as has been demonstrated,
it cannot be affirmed in any way that we are dealing with an infringement
clearly intended of the data protection regulations by Glovo,
especially if, as it has been possible to demonstrate in the facts, the right to suppress the
complaining party was clearly addressed.

The main objective of the disciplinary procedure must be, in the opinion of
GLOVOAPP, precisely not to stay in what has already been indicated in the procedure, but
try to break the presumption of innocence that assists all obligors seeking the
intentional element in his performance, the subjective element of the administrative offense to
through a probative activity that can be considered sufficient.

However, GLOVOAPP considers that in this case there is no evidence
real charges in said initiation of procedure that allow us to understand that there is
guilt in the conduct of GLOVOAPP.

For all the arguments presented, GLOVOAPP requests the AEPD to withdraw the
sanction imposition agreement imposed on GLOVOAPP in the Agreement, understanding
that wants to be imposed with a total absence of probative elements of the
guilt and, consequently, with violation of the fundamental right to
presumption of innocence included in the Spanish Constitution.

3.3. Absence of guilt. Nullity of sanction

In order to prove the absence of guilt, GLOVOAPP brings up,
in relation to the invocation of the principle of guilt, which the Court
Constitutional has established as one of the basic pillars for the interpretation
of the Sanctioning Administrative Law that the principles and guarantees present in the
field of Criminal Law are applicable, with certain nuances, in the exercise of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/27

any disciplinary power of the Public Administration (STC 76/1990, of 26 December
April).

The Supreme Court in its judgment of February 10, 1986 stated that "the exercise
of punitive power, in any of its manifestations, must accommodate the
constitutional principles and precepts that preside over the criminal legal system in
as a whole, and, whatever it may be, the area in which the punitive power of the
State, Jurisdiction, or the field in which it occurs, is subject to the same
principles whose respect legitimizes the imposition of penalties and sanctions, therefore, the
administrative offenses, to be subject to sanction or penalty, must be
typical, that is, foreseen as such by a previous legal norm, unlawful, that is,
injurious to a legal asset provided for by the Law, and guilty, attributable to a
author by way of fraud or negligence, to ensure in his assessment the balance between the
public interest and the guarantee of people, which is what constitutes the key to
Rule of law".

In the specific case, at no time has the regulations of
data protection, moreover, GLOVOAPP considers that it has religiously complied
with all its obligations. There has been no intent to infringe, quite the contrary.

GLOVOAPP understands that it has demonstrated to the AEPD its willingness to comply with the
personal data protection regulations, proceeding immediately to the
deletion of the data of the complaining party, once the claim has been transferred by
part of this Agency, and ensuring the full satisfaction of the rights of the
users at all times regardless of the channel that they are exercised.

For all the arguments presented, GLOVOAPP considers that there is an absence
total evidence of guilt and, consequently, a violation of the
fundamental right to the presumption of innocence enshrined in the Constitution
Spanish.

3.4. Absence of the principles of criminality and presumption of innocence. nullity of
sanction

GLOVOAPP deems it necessary to highlight the non-existence of conduct
considered as an infraction and for which he is penalized administratively.

This should have led, in its opinion, the AEPD to file the proceedings
sanctions against GLOVOAPP (decision already made by this Agency in its Project
decision dated October 5, 2020), since, otherwise, it would incur
a flagrant violation of the principle of classification that emerges from the regulations
of application.

From the beginning it is indicated that the legal system protects those administered in
the disciplinary procedure demanding that the administrative bodies in charge
of the promotion of sanctioning actions, only consider as infractions those
behaviors that fit appropriately into the definitions that are explicitly
establish norms with legal force. Thus, the first paragraph of article 129 of the Law
40/2015, establishes the following: "Article 27. Principle of classification. 1. They only constitute
administrative offenses the violations of the legal system foreseen

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/27

as such violations by a Law, without prejudice to the provisions for the
Local Administration in Title XI of Law 7/1985, of April 2” (the underlining and the
bold are ours).”

In close connection with said provision, the same Law 40/2015 establishes that the
starting point for any action aimed at establishing responsibilities for the
commission of administrative offenses should be to consider that, unless
the opposite is proven, the company has not incurred the rates declared
as such violations.

As previously mentioned, it is what is known as the principle of
presumption of innocence, which is fully consistent with the fact that the
Administration is obliged to carry out the instructional activity to
check if a specific behavior is subsumed in an offending type. so, so
Regarding the presumption of innocence, Law 39/2015 establishes that in the
disciplinary procedure also governs this principle.

Regarding the importance of the administrative procedure respecting the principle
of typicity, the Judgment of the Supreme Court of June 2, 2010, Chamber of
Contentious-Administrative, Section 4, has pointed out, reproducing what has been
said in an extensive and consolidated doctrine, the following: "The principle of typicality, the
most important of those on which administrative sanction law is based,
requires, as a minimum, a perfect adaptation between the act and what is definitive as
transgression, such as the objective and personal circumstances that determine the
illegality, in order to accurately configure the conduct of the subject with the definitive type
by the norm that is considered violated (Judgments of March 25, 1977, December 13,
May and December 22, 1986. Rulings of the Supreme Court of February 12).

As regards the principle of presumption of innocence in the field of
sanctioning administrative power, the jurisprudence has been equally unequivocal in
the sense of demanding from administrative bodies strict respect and submission
the same. Thus, from an early –and consolidated doctrine- the Court
Constitutional Court has been invariably declaring that the principle of
presumption of innocence fully subjects the administrative sanctioning power.

As an example, one can cite -for all- the Constitutional Court Judgment
13/1982, of April 1, which was expressed literally as follows: "(...) the presumption of
Innocence has ceased to be a general principle of law that must inform the
judicial activity ("in dubio pro reo") to become a fundamental right that
binds all public powers and is immediately applicable, as has been
This Court has specified in repeated judgments.[…] The right to the presumption of
innocence cannot be understood reduced to the strict field of prosecution of
allegedly criminal conduct, but it must also be understood that he presides over the
adoption of any resolution, both administrative and jurisdictional, based on
in the condition or conduct of people and from whose appreciation a judgment is derived.
penalizing result for them or limiting their rights.”

Delving into what has been transcribed, the Supreme Court has also reflected in its activity
jurisdictional application of the principle of presumption of innocence. Thus, by Judgment
of February 28, 1994, Contentious-Administrative Chamber, Section 7, the High Court

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/27

stated: “From a broad perspective, the identity of principles of law
administrative sanction with criminal punitive power is limited to the
following general doctrines: to the principle of legality (there is no infraction or sanction
administration without a prior law that determines them), to that of the typical unjust (delimitation
of the reprehensible conducts for the purposes of its sanction), to that of "nulla pena
sine culpa" (concurrence of fraud or fault in the author of the offense with a requirement of
disciplinary reproach) and, finally, and with obvious significance in the event of
case file, at the beginning of proven proof of the reality of the reprehensible conduct, whose
embodied in the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence is evident,
and that forces to fully prove the effective realization by the defendant of the
reprehensible action or omission, being rigorously applied to the law
administrative penalty”.

Well, given the importance that the legal system gives to the principles
of criminality and presumption of innocence within the scope of the sanctioning power of the
Administration, and proven the extensive reception in jurisprudence of the obligation to
apply these principles to the administrative disciplinary procedure, must
Contrast everything said immediately with what has happened in the present
performances.

In view of all of the foregoing, GLOVOAPP understands that it has been duly
demonstrated that it has acted at all times in good faith, applying the maximum
effort to comply with data protection regulations with the conviction of
be within the law, as this is his requirement as responsible for the
treatment of the personal data of the interested parties, and with the aim of not putting
never jeopardize your rights and freedoms. There is, therefore, no clear
"intentionality" in failing to comply with current regulations since, he made all the
necessary and due actions to comply with the regulations and has adjusted
prudently their performance to the law.

ELEVENTH: On May 9, 2022, the instructing body of the
disciplinary procedure formulated a resolution proposal, in which it proposes that
by the Director of the AEPD a warning is addressed to GLOVOAPP23, S..L., with NIF
B66362906, for a violation of article 12 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5
of the GDPR.

The proposed resolution was notified in accordance with the rules established in the
LPACAP on May 18, 2022, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt that works in
The file.

TWELFTH: After the period for this purpose has elapsed, the Agency has not received
GLOVOAPP's allegations to the aforementioned resolution proposal.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/27

FIRST: On November 7, 2019 at 0.10 a.m. an email was sent
from the address liveops.comms@glovoapp.com to ***USER.1@gmail.com, with
the following message: “Thank you for contacting Glovo! We have just received your
message. We will respond to it in 24 hours. Thank you for your patience during this
waiting period”. This email responds to a message dated November 6, 2019 at
23:10 hrs in which it is claimed that the delivery area is too small.

SECOND: On November 12, 2019 at 8:56 a.m. an email was sent
from the address liveops.comms@glovoapp.com to ***USER.1@gmail.com, with
the following message: “Thank you for contacting Glovo! We have just received your
message. We will respond to it in 24 hours. Thank you for your patience during this
waiting period”. This email responds to a message dated November 12, 2019 at
8:56 hrs in which he explains that his requests are not being attended to. Warns that it has already
notified to the data protection authority and awaits immediate deletion
of your account.

THIRD: On November 12, 2019 at 9:43 a.m. an email was sent
from the address liveops.comms@glovoapp.com to ***USER.1@gmail.com, with
the following message: “Thank you for contacting Glovo! We have just received your
message. We will respond to it in 24 hours. Thank you for your patience during this
waiting period”. This email responds to a message dated November 12, 2019 at
8:43 a.m. in which it is explained that a week ago he sent an email
requesting the deletion of your account and you have not received a response, but you have received a
information document. It also warns that it will notify the protection authority
of data that does not have data deletion request forms in Polish, only in
Spanish.

FOURTH: On November 13, 2019 at 7:39 p.m. an email was sent
from the address liveops.comms@glovoapp.com to ***USER.1@gmail.com, with
the following message: “Thank you for contacting Glovo! We have just received your
message. We will respond to it in 24 hours. Thank you for your patience during this
waiting period”. This email responds to a message dated November 13, 2019 at
18:39 hrs in which you request to stop processing your personal data immediately and
are deleted from all databases. In addition, you request the deletion of your account
within two business days.

FIFTH: The GLOVOAPP Customer Service Department (SAC) assigns an agent
responsible for responding to users based on the territory in which it is located.
find the user, in order to be able to respond in the same language in which
launch your application. In this case, the complaining party was not assigned any city
or territory, since, having not placed any order through the 'app', you will not be
could locate based on territory. This is why, given the impossibility of
locate the user in a specific city, the system did not transmit requests for
deletion of data to the attention of any agent of the SAC, receiving the user as
only the response that the SAC automatically generates before a ticket is assigned
agent in charge of responding to users.

SIXTH: As a result of the transfer of the claim, GLOVOAPP has proceeded to eliminate the
personal data of the complaining party (although they only had their email address

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/27

email, since he did not get to place any order), and they have been put in
contact to inform you of this, and of the conservation of your data in a state of
blockade, among other things, to defend oneself in claims (through an email
email dated September 16, 2020).

SEVENTH: GLOVOAPP has sent a reminder to all agents about the
need to send to the office of the Data Protection Delegate all the
communications that may include a request to exercise rights, although this
request is hidden or not obvious. He has also reported to the department
in charge of the SAC the inconvenience related to the assignment of the requests
by users who have not placed orders and/or who have not indicated a
country or an address when registering in the app. As long as no one is found
technical solution to the problem, your agents will control, manually and periodically, the
requests that have not been automatically assigned to any agent.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Competition and applicable regulations

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the GDPR, there is
the processing of personal data, since GLOVOAPP performs
the collection and conservation of, as a minimum, the electronic mail of natural persons,
among other treatments.

GLOVOAPP carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller,
given that it is the one who determines the ends and means of such activity, by virtue of article
4.7 of the GDPR.

The GDPR provides, in its article 56.1, for cases of cross-border processing,
provided for in its article 4.23), in relation to the competence of the authority of
main control, that, without prejudice to the provisions of article 55, the authority of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/27

control of the main establishment or of the only establishment of the person in charge or of the
The person in charge of the treatment will be competent to act as control authority
for the cross-border processing carried out by said controller or
commissioned in accordance with the procedure established in article 60. In the case
examined, as has been stated, GLOVOAPP has its main establishment in
Spain, so the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to
act as the main supervisory authority.

For its part, the deletion of personal data is regulated in articles 17 of the
GDPR and article 15 of the LOPDGDD, while the way in which these rights
must be addressed is regulated in article 12 of the GDPR.

II

Allegations adduced

In relation to the allegations adduced to the agreement to initiate this
disciplinary procedure, we proceed to respond to them according to the order
exposed by GLOVOAPP:

FIRST. - ABOUT GLOVO'S COMPLIANCE WITH THE ATTENTION OF
RIGHTS OF PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA

GLOVOAPP understands that it was made clear that at no time did it deny or
hindered the exercise of the right of deletion of the complaining party for the purposes
of the provisions of article 12.2 of the LOPDGDD, but rather showed a
flagrant flexibility proceeding to the elimination of the personal data of the party
claimant immediately after receiving the claim from this
Agency, despite not being exercised through the channels enabled for this purpose in that
moment (the email addresses legal@glovoapp.com and
gdpr@glovoapp.com).

In addition, it refers to the reasons why it could not proceed to delete the data
personal information of the claiming party in time (impossibility of locating him in a territory
or specific city for not having placed any order through the platform and,
consequently, impossibility of assigning your request to a specific agent of the SAC),
which cannot be understood, in any case, as a will of GLOVOAPP to
not wanting to comply with their duty of care of the right of deletion exercised by the
complaining party, for the purposes of article 74.c) of the LOPDGDD.

Moreover, GLOVOAPP records that the right of deletion of the party
claimant was immediately attended to for the reasons that were already expressed in
said brief dated September 18, 2020, complementing it with a shipment
mass to all the agents that are part of the SAC reminding them of the need to
immediately send to the Data Protection Officer any exercise of
rights that could arrive through the chat.

Therefore, it understands that it is clearly demonstrated that GLOVOAPP, as
responsible for treatment, already had insured and continues to insure in their policies
the satisfaction of the rights of the interested parties, regardless of the
how they are exercised.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/27

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that, precisely, it did not "have insured" the
satisfaction of the rights of the interested parties, regardless of the way in which
these are exercised, since the complaining party requested the suppression of their
data through a channel certainly different from that provided by GLOVOAPP, which is why
which the company was not able to serve him correctly. And this was, just like the
The company acknowledges, because the complaining party had not made any
order, for which reason it could not be assigned a specific territory or city, which caused
that a specific agent of the SAC was not assigned to said request.

Although it is true that after the transfer of the claim by this
Agency, GLOVOAPP has duly attended to the request of the complaining party, which
which is valued positively by this Agency, it is no less true that the request
of the complaining party was not attended to within the period stipulated by the GDPR.

GLOVOAPP also states that it regularly and constantly monitors all
channels with which they have contact with the user (web forms, chat of the
application, email addresses, postal mail, social media profiles,
among others) in such a way that, in the event of exercising a right of data protection
it is properly taken care of.

And what proof of this is that, from the claim of the complaining party sent by
this Agency, GLOVOAPP has not received any other claim from it
nor of any other control authority of the countries in which it operates for not having
attended a right of data protection or, especially, a right of
suppression.

However, this Agency wishes to highlight that the fact that no
any other claim by any control authority does not constitute
proof that “it regularly and constantly monitors all the channels with which it
has contact with the user (...) in such a way that, in the event of exercising a right of
data protection, this is properly attended”.

In any case, it is clear that regardless of the action taken
carried out by GLOVOAPP after the events that are the object of this
procedure, at the time the complaining party made its request for
deletion of your data, this monitoring was not being carried out or was not being
performing correctly, given that his right was not duly attended to.

Finally, GLOVOAPP considers that the Agency errs in penalizing it with a
warning, since the actions that occurred cannot be understood as a
clear will to breach the data protection regulations in the form
of not wanting to attend to the right of deletion of the complaining party, being necessary
decree the file of the same.

In this regard, this Agency does not consider that there was a clear will to
breach of data protection regulations, but GLOVOAPP acted in
negligent manner by not having foreseen an internal mechanism to give effect to those
requests on the exercise of rights of the data protection regulations
personal, received through channels other than those initially planned. In

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/27

special, for those cases in which the system could not assign a SAC agent
determined, since it cannot be assigned a specific city or territory to the user, such
as has happened in the present case.

For all the foregoing, this claim is dismissed.

SECOND. - ON THE PRONOUNCEMENT OF THIS AGENCY ON THE
ARCHIVE OF PERFORMANCES

GLOVOAPP expressly mentions the resolution dated October 5,
2020 by which the Director of the AEPD adopted a draft decision to file
the actions that occurred in this procedure.

Although the control authorities concerned in Poland and Portugal submitted
objections to the draft decision, for GLOVOAPP it is clear that said draft
is not adopted by the AEPD without considering that from the proceedings and evidence obtained
to date do not result in the existence of a breach or in damages and
Serious damage to the rights and interests of the complaining party.

GLOVOAPP considers that the AEPD, as the main control authority of this
procedure, should have upheld the decision taken at the time, being the
warning an unnecessary and inappropriate sanction for this case, since
Glovo at no time has shown a willingness not to attend to the right of
deletion of the complaining party, especially when it has shown clear and flexible flexibility
unequivocally deleting your data immediately after receiving the
claim by the AEPD, despite having exercised this right by a
channel not enabled for this purpose.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that the mechanism that article 60 of the
GDPR obliges the main authority, in the case of cross-border processing, to
take a unanimous decision together with the other authorities concerned. And
precisely provides for a new decision to be reached in which all
supervisory authorities agree, either through a draft decision or
a revised draft decision.

In this sense, initially the Spanish Agency proposed to the rest of the authorities that
the actions will be archived by means of the aforementioned draft decision to archive the
proceedings, but pertinent and reasoned objections were filed that have
led this Agency to reconsider its initial interpretation, reaching an agreement
with the rest of the authorities in assessing the existence of an infraction for
part of GLOVOAPP, without being obliged at any time to maintain its
starting posture.

For these reasons, this claim is dismissed.

THIRD. – NULLITY OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE ACT DUE TO THE ABSENCE OF THE
NECESSARY ELEMENTS FOR IT TO BE CONSIDERED TO EXIST
INFRINGEMENT

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/27

GLOVOAPP understands that in no case is its conduct punishable in the form of
warning, for the reasons set out below.

3.1 Absence of the subjective elements of the offence. Nullity of Sanction

GLOVOAPP considers that the concurrence of an intentional action or
culpable in the present case, in order to be able to impose a sanction in the present case.
That is, the existence of the subjective element (guilt) has not been analyzed.
that Law 40/2015 requires in order to verify the existence of an infringement
administrative.
 
GLOVOAPP insists that it has been demonstrated that at no time has
intentionally wanted not to comply with the right of deletion of the complaining party. All
otherwise. It has proceeded immediately to the attention of said right once
transferred by this Agency.

Therefore, GLOVOAPP states that it must be taken into account that the AEPD had to
having carried out this analysis and therefore, not being able to appreciate, in any way
way, an intention to violate the data protection regulations by Glovo (in
the way of wanting to hinder, prevent or not attend to the right to suppress the
complaining party), and having dispensed with the assessment of said spirit as
essential element of the administrative offence, GLOVOAPP understands that the
imposition of a sanction would be invalidated.

In this regard, this Agency repeats what was previously stated, in the sense that it does not
it is considered that there was a clear will to breach the
data protection regulations, but it is understood that GLOVOAPP acted in
negligent manner by not having foreseen an internal mechanism to give effect to those
requests on the exercise of rights of the data protection regulations
personal, received through channels other than those initially planned. In
special, for those cases in which the system could not assign a SAC agent
determined, since it cannot be assigned a specific city or territory to the user, such
as has happened in the present case.

For these reasons, this claim is dismissed.

3.2. Of the lack of proof that distorts the presumption of innocence of Glovo. Nullity
of sanction

GLOVOAPP alleges that the Administration bears the burden of proof of the
guilt of the subject, which must be proven by any of the means
admitted in law.

And that, in the present case, GLOVOAPP does not state that there is absolutely no
probative element that allows to consider destroyed the presumption of innocence that,
within the administrative-sanctioning field, it is fully applicable to relations
between the Administration and the administered, as has been recognized by innumerable
jurisdictional resolutions in all hierarchical and territorial areas.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/27

In the present case, GLOVOAPP understands that the AEPD is limited to reviewing in the
I agree with the background of the file, but it cannot be affirmed in any way
that we are facing a clearly intentional violation of the regulations of
data protection by Glovo, especially if, as has been demonstrated in
the facts, the right of suppression of the complaining party was clearly
attended.

GLOVOAPP considers that in the present case there is no real evidence of charge in
said initiation of proceedings that allow us to understand that there is guilt in the
conduct of GLOVOAPP.

In this regard, this Agency insists that it does not understand that there had been a clear
will to breach the data protection regulations, but understands
that GLOVOAPP acted negligently by not having foreseen an internal mechanism
to process those requests on the exercise of rights of the regulations of
protection of personal data, received through channels other than those
initially planned. In particular, for those cases in which the system could not
assign a specific SAC agent, since a city or territory cannot be assigned
determined to the user, as has occurred in the present case.

Regarding the proof in this sense, GLOVOAPP has affirmed in its brief of
response to the transfer of the aforementioned claim, as well as in its pleadings
to the agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, that the request had not been processed
request for deletion of the personal data of the complaining party given that it does not
it had been possible to assign him a certain SAC agent, since he did not carry out
no order and had not been assigned a specific city or territory. And went
This situation caused the request made not to be duly attended to.
And that, after having become aware of said claim,
GLOVOAPP adopted measures to prevent this type of situation from repeating itself in a
future (which has been assessed positively and it has been decided to replace a sanction in
form of a fine for issuing a warning, under the terms of the GDPR).

For these reasons, this claim is dismissed.

3.3. Absence of guilt. Nullity of sanction

GLOVOAPP insists that, in the specific case, at no time has it been omitted or
breached the data protection regulations, what's more, GLOVOAPP considers that
He has religiously complied with all his obligations. there has been no spirit
to infringe, quite the contrary.

GLOVOAPP understands that it has demonstrated to the AEPD its willingness to comply with the
personal data protection regulations, proceeding immediately to the
deletion of the data of the complaining party, once the claim has been transferred by
part of this Agency, and ensuring the full satisfaction of the rights of the
users at all times regardless of the channel that they are exercised.

For all the arguments presented, GLOVOAPP considers that there is an absence
total evidence of guilt and, consequently, a violation of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/27

fundamental right to the presumption of innocence enshrined in the Constitution
Spanish.

In this regard, this Agency insists that it does not consider that there was a clear
will to breach the data protection regulations, but rather
GLOVOAPP acted negligently by not having foreseen an internal mechanism
to process those requests on the exercise of rights of the regulations of
protection of personal data, received through channels other than those
initially planned. In particular, for those cases in which the system could not
assign a specific SAC agent, since a city or territory cannot be assigned
determined to the user, as has occurred in the present case. Therefore, consider
that there is sufficient evidence to show that there has been a
negligent conduct on the part of GLOVOAPP, which determines the existence of the
said infraction.

For these reasons, this claim is dismissed.

3.4. Absence of the principles of criminality and presumption of innocence. nullity of
sanction

GLOVOAPP alleges the importance that the legal system attaches to the principles
of criminality and presumption of innocence within the scope of the sanctioning power of the
Administration, and proven the extensive reception in jurisprudence of the obligation to
apply these principles to the administrative sanctioning procedure, which must
Contrast everything said immediately with what has happened in the present
performances.

GLOVOAPP understands that it has been duly demonstrated that it has acted in
at all times in good faith, applying the maximum effort to comply with the regulations of
data protection with the conviction of being within the law, because it is
its demand as responsible for the processing of the personal data of the
concerned, and with the aim of never endangering their rights and freedoms.
There is, therefore, no clear "intentionality" in breaching current regulations since
that, carried out all the necessary and due actions for the fulfillment of the
regulations and has prudently adjusted its actions to the law.

In this regard, this Agency insists that it does not consider that there was a clear
will to breach the data protection regulations, but rather
GLOVOAPP acted negligently by not having foreseen an internal mechanism
to process those requests on the exercise of rights of the regulations of
protection of personal data, received through channels other than those
initially planned. In particular, for those cases in which the system could not
assign a specific SAC agent, since a city or territory cannot be assigned
determined to the user, as has occurred in the present case. Therefore, consider
that there is sufficient evidence to show that there has been a
negligent conduct on the part of GLOVOAPP, which determines the existence of the
said infraction.

For these reasons, this claim is dismissed.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/27

IV.

Right of erasure

Article 17 “Right to erasure (“the right to be forgotten”)” of the GDPR establishes
that:

"1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain without undue delay from the person responsible for the
treatment the deletion of personal data that concerns you, which will be
obliged to delete without undue delay the personal data when any
of the following circumstances:
a) the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which it was
were collected or otherwise processed;
b) the interested party withdraws the consent on which the treatment is based in accordance
with Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)(a) and this is not
based on another legal basis;
c) the interested party opposes the processing in accordance with article 21, paragraph 1, and does not
other legitimate reasons for the treatment prevail, or the interested party opposes the
treatment according to article 21, paragraph 2;
d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed;
e) personal data must be deleted to comply with a legal obligation
established in the law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the
responsible for the treatment;
f) the personal data have been obtained in relation to the offer of services of the
information society referred to in article 8, paragraph 1.

2. When you have made the personal data public and are obliged, by virtue of the
provided in section 1, to delete said data, the person responsible for the treatment,
taking into account the technology available and the cost of its application, it will adopt
reasonable measures, including technical measures, with a view to informing
responsible who are processing the personal data of the request of the interested party
deletion of any link to such personal data, or any copy or replica of
the same.

3. Sections 1 and 2 will not apply when the treatment is necessary:
a) to exercise the right to freedom of expression and information;
b) for compliance with a legal obligation that requires data processing
imposed by the law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the
responsible for the treatment, or for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the person responsible;
c) for reasons of public interest in the field of public health in accordance with
Article 9, paragraph 2, letters h) and i), and paragraph 3;
d) for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or
statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89(1), to the extent that
the right indicated in paragraph 1 could make it impossible or hinder
seriously impair the achievement of the objectives of such treatment, or
e) for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims”.

For its part, article 15 “Right of suppression” of the LOPDGDD provides that:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/27

"1. The right of deletion will be exercised in accordance with the provisions of article 17
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. When the deletion derives from the exercise of the right of opposition in accordance with the
Article 21.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the person in charge may keep the data
identifiers of the affected party necessary in order to prevent future processing to
direct marketing purposes.

In the present case, it is clear that the complaining party had requested GLOVOAPP the
deletion of your personal data on at least four occasions.

Exercise of the rights of the interested party

V

Article 12 "Transparency of information, communication and modalities of
exercise of the rights of the interested party" of the GDPR establishes that:

"1. The person in charge of the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the
interested all information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language, in
particular any information directed specifically to a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by
electronics. When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally as long as the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the exercise of their rights by the interested party.
under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph
2, the person in charge will not refuse to act at the request of the interested party in order to exercise
your rights under articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you do not
is in a position to identify the interested party.

3. The person responsible for the treatment will provide the interested party with information regarding their
proceedings on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, without
undue delay and, in any case, within one month of receipt
of the request. This period may be extended by another two months if necessary,
taking into account the complexity and number of requests. The responsible
will inform the interested party of any of said extensions within a period of one month from
from receipt of the request, indicating the reasons for the delay. when the
interested party submits the application by electronic means, the information will be provided by
electronic means when possible, unless the interested party requests that it be
facilitate otherwise.

4. If the person responsible for the treatment does not process the request of the interested party, he will
will inform without delay, and no later than one month after receipt of the
application, the reasons for not acting and the possibility of presenting a
claim before a control authority and take legal action.

5. The information provided under articles 13 and 14 as well as any
communication and any action carried out under articles 15 to 22 and 34

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/27

they will be free of charge. When the requests are manifestly unfounded or
excessive, especially due to its repetitive nature, the person responsible for the
treatment may:
a) charge a reasonable fee based on the administrative costs incurred to
provide the information or communication or carry out the requested action, or
b) refuse to act on the request.
The controller shall bear the burden of proving the character
manifestly unfounded or excessive of the request.

6. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 11, when the data controller
has reasonable doubts regarding the identity of the natural person who is making the
request referred to in articles 15 to 21, may request that the
additional information necessary to confirm the identity of the interested party.
(…)”.

For its part, article 12 “General provisions on the exercise of rights”
of the LOPDGDD provides that:

"1. The rights recognized in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
They may be exercised directly or through a legal or voluntary representative.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will be obliged to inform the affected party about the
means at your disposal to exercise the rights that correspond to you. The media
They must be easily accessible to the person concerned. The exercise of the right may not
be denied for the sole reason that the affected party opts for another means.

3. The person in charge may process, on behalf of the person in charge, the requests for exercise
made by those affected by their rights if so established in the contract or
legal act that binds them.

4. Proof of compliance with the duty to respond to the request to exercise their
rights formulated by the affected party will fall on the person responsible.

5. When the laws applicable to certain treatments establish a regime
that affects the exercise of the rights provided for in Chapter III of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the provisions of those will be followed.

6. In any case, the holders of parental authority may exercise in the name and
representation of minors under fourteen the rights of access, rectification,
cancellation, opposition or any other that may correspond to them in the
context of this organic law.

7. The actions carried out by the data controller will be free of charge
to respond to requests to exercise these rights, without prejudice to the
provided in articles 12.5 and 15.3 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and in the
sections 3 and 4 of article 13 of this organic law”.

In the present case, it is clear that the complaining party requested the deletion of his account
and your personal data on at least four occasions. The last one on the 13th of
November 2019. However, it was not until September 16, 2020 that

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/27

GLOVOAPP confirmed to the claiming party that it duly attended to such request,
after receiving the transfer of said claim from this Agency.

Although the complaining party had not used the form intended for that purpose, it had
contacted through a chat with a customer service agent and had received
an automatic response from the claimed party committing to
respond to you within the next 24 hours.

In fact, it is the responsibility of the data controller to ensure satisfaction
of the rights of the interested parties in general and, in particular, comply with any
GDPR requirement in relation to these rights. The principle of responsibility
proactive, in accordance with article 5.2 of the GDPR, implies that the person responsible for
Treatment must adapt its internal processes to comply with the obligations that
imposed by the regulations, adjusted to the organization and data processing
personal that it carries out. The person responsible must also demonstrate that the
Solutions adopted comply with the requirements of the regulations.

In this context, the data controller can and should have mechanisms that
allow the exercise of each of the rights in a simple way for the
interested, and give them full satisfaction in the shortest possible time. The responsible
must also demonstrate flexibility in interacting with the data subject on a
specific request, regardless of your internal policy. The fact that the
request had been made through an alternative means to the mechanisms
provided by the company should not be a reason not to serve it.

Therefore, according to the available evidence, it is considered that
the known facts constitute an infringement, attributable to GLOVOAPP,
for violation of article 12 of the GDPR, in relation to article 17 of the GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 12 of the GDPR

SAW

The aforementioned infringement of article 12 of the GDPR supposes the commission of the infringements
typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR that under the heading "General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

(…)

b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that:

"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/27

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 74 "Infringements considered minor" of
the LOPDGDD indicates:

"The remaining infractions of a legal nature are considered minor and will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:
(…)

c) Failure to respond to requests to exercise the rights established in articles
15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, unless the provisions apply
in article 72.1.k) of this organic law”.

Penalty for violation of article 12 of the GDPR

VII

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the GDPR, the aforementioned Regulation provides
in section 2.b) of article 58 "Powers" the following:

"Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers
indicated below:

(…)
b) send a warning to any person in charge or person in charge of the treatment
when the processing operations have infringed the provisions of the
this Regulation; (…)”

For its part, recital 148 of the GDPR indicates:

“In the event of a minor infraction, or if the fine likely to be imposed
constitutes a disproportionate burden on a natural person, rather than
penalty by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. should however
special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, to its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
to the degree of responsibility or any relevant prior infringement, to the manner in which
that the supervisory authority has become aware of the infringement, to compliance
of measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, to adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstances.”

In accordance with the evidence available, it is considered that the infringement
in question is mild for the purposes of article 83.2 of the GDPR given that in the present
case, it was a specific case, the consequence of a specific error (of which no
there are similar antecedents in this Agency), which would have already been corrected, which
which allows considering a reduction of guilt in the facts, for which reason
considers it in accordance with the law not to impose a sanction consisting of an administrative fine
and replace it by directing a warning.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/27

FIRST: ADDRESS GLOVOAPP23, S..L., with NIF B66362906, for an infraction
of Article 12 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to GLOVOAPP23, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

