                                                                   
                                                   

PRESS RELEASE

the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments on November 24th and 25th, 2021

 
 

 

 

102nd Data Protection Conference – Effective data protection through cooperation

 

Contrary to the original planning as a face-to-face event, the 102nd conference

of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments

(DSK) on November 24th and 25th, 2021 under the chairmanship of the state representative for

Data protection and freedom of information in the Saarland Monika Grethel as a video conference

renz instead.

None of the numerous meetings of the DSK under the rotating chairmanship of the Saar

national data protection officer could be held in attendance due to the pandemic

will. However, the changed framework conditions for the discussion

and coordination processes of the DSK important impulses for the intensification of

supervisory cooperation. In addition to the already established

The conference in the current year dealt with more permanent exchange formats

via the DSK 2.0 working group with further potential for further development of the DSK

and the exchange between the data protection supervisory authorities. About the

The results of the working group were reported at the meeting.

With the aim of coordinated support for cross-state collaborative research

research projects in the health sector, the DSK has set up the Research Data Task Force

brought to life. In its role as a single point of contact and forum for

the task force guarantees a flexible and

quick reaction to the concerns of project sponsors and researchers and guaranteed

a concerted application of data protection parameters in research projects

project

The DSK also commented on the status of the implementation of the Online Access Act

(OZG), which obliges the federal, state and local governments to

to offer their administrative services digitally via administrative portals during the

ten. The conference accompanies the implementation of the OZG in terms of data protection

view and is in contact with the responsible Federal Minister

rium des Interiors, für Bau und Heimat and the Federal IT Cooperation (FITKO).

 

 

 


 

                                                                   
                                                   

With a view to the implementation of the Register Modernization Act, which

management of a uniform personal identifier for the use of digital administration

performance services, the DSK has appointed a representative of the data protection

supervisory authorities of the federal states for the steering committee register modernization

it's correct. In addition to a representative of the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and the

Freedom of information, the country representative accompanies the further implementation measures

men as an advisory member in terms of data protection law.

Through the resolution "On the possibility of non-application of technical and organizational

torical measures according to Art. 32 GDPR at the express request of those affected

Persons" the DSK confirms that the persons responsible for the processing of personal

technical and organizational measures that are mandatory for personal data

Technical measures generally not through consent within the meaning of Art. 6 Para. 1

Subsection 1 lit. a GDPR can be waived. At most, it can be related to individual cases

at the express request of the person concerned, to provide non-application

tender, specific measures according to Art. 32 GDPR are possible.

The 103rd meeting of the DSK chaired by the Federal Commissioner for Data

Protection and Freedom of Information will take place on March 23 and 24, 2022 in Bonn

the.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Further information on the data protection conference:

www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de

Contact:

Independent Data Protection Center Saarland

Fritz-Dobisch-Strasse 12

66111 Saarbrucken

Email: medien@datenschutz.saarland.de

 

 

