Press Release: No. 03/2023
Magdeburg, May 9, 2023

 
L e a n g e s m a n i c e d e r f o r d a t a t p o t e c i t i o n

 
data protection
 
State representative checks the professional requirements of female candidates
and candidates of the state parliamentary groups for the office of state commissioner
for data protection
 
Since the last change in the State Data Protection Act (DSAG LSA), the
parliamentary groups the candidate or candidates for the election of the state representative for
propose data protection in Saxony-Anhalt to the state parliament. the candidate-
In this process, candidates and applicants must meet the following mandatory requirements:
meet entry requirements:

 Career qualifications, e.g. proven by a university degree
 Required qualification (especially data protection)
 Required experience (especially data protection)
 Required expertise (especially data protection)
 Management experience
 Successful enhanced security scan with security discoveries

Level Ü3.

The State Commissioner for Data Protection Saxony-Anhalt has the obligation as
Supervisory authority to oversee the application of data protection regulations
monitor and enforce (§ 23 DSAG LSA in connection with Article 57 data
General Protection Regulation (GDPR)). The control and enforcement obligation applies in particular
especially for the legal requirements and regulations of the DS-GVO and the
DSAG LSA.

This obligation therefore also extends to the legal requirements "General
my conditions for the members of the supervisory authority" (Article 53 DS-GVO) and
"Prerequisites for the election of the state commissioner for data protection" (§ 21
Paragraph 1 DSAG LSA). Therefore, the supervisory authority must ensure compliance with the
control and enforce the legal requirements.

"In addition to the technical requirements, passing the extended security
safety check (Ü3) required. The lack of such a security check
would also result in otherwise qualified candidates that the landing
instructed the prescribed control duties at the State Criminal Police Office and in particular
special with the protection of the constitution can not comply. "explained the incumbent
State Commissioner Albert Cohaus.

Press Release: No. 03/2023
Magdeburg, May 9, 2023

 
L e a n g e s m a n i c e d e r f o r d a t a t p o t e c i t i o n

In a letter to the state parliament today, the incumbent state commissioner
President announced his examination and asked the parliamentary groups
to inform about this. At the same time he asked the President of the Landtag for each
of the persons standing for election in addition to the evidence to be submitted
enclose a qualified test certificate. These documents are then the basis
the examination by the state representative, so that he, as an independent supervisory
authority can meet its monitoring obligations.

  

Background information:

Due to the clear legal requirements in Article 57 Paragraph 1 a) GDPR
the state commissioner "monitors and monitors all data protection regulations".
enforce" (§ 23 DSAG LSA). This includes all relevant laws that
contain protective regulations. This applies in particular
State Data Protection Act (DSAG LSA), in which the technical requirements
are specified for a state representative for data protection. Before this
The audit obligation includes the following points:

1. Requirements according to § 21 paragraph 1 DSAG LSA:

 The acquisition of the qualification for access to career paths of the career
Bahngruppe 2 under the conditions of § 14 paragraph 4 of the state
Civil Servants Act (career qualification, usually proven by university
certificate and, if necessary, additional preparatory service)

 Required qualification (especially data protection)
 Required experience (especially data protection)
 Required expertise (especially data protection)
 

2. Requirements according to § 22 paragraph 2 and 5 DSAG LSA: management experience
 Section 22 paragraph 2 in conjunction with Section 21 paragraph 1 DSAG LSA: Qualification to manage the

office

 Section 22 paragraph 5 in conjunction with Section 21 paragraph 1 DSAG LSA: Qualification for the activity

as the supreme service authority and supreme supervisory authority

 

3. Successful extended security check according to § 12 SÜG LSA (Ü3).
As a natural person, the state commissioner is responsible for data protection
view of the country’s protection of the constitution (§ 30 VerfSchG-LSA in conjunction with
§ 22 DSG-LSA). To comply with this personal supervisory obligation
from day one, he must be authorized to view and
have trolls of all documents of the secret service.
 


L e a n g e s m a n i c e d e r f o r d a t a t p o t e c i t i o n

Press Release: No. 03/2023
Magdeburg, May 9, 2023

§ 3 paragraph 1 Security Check and Secret Protection Act (SÜG-LSA)
expressly stipulates that a person carrying a security-sensitive
activities - this includes in particular the supervision of the constitutional
protection - should be entrusted to undergo a security check before
is. For this reason, at least before the appointment as state
commissioned the successful security check has been completed
be.
 
In addition, it should be noted that the state commissioner as the supervisory authority
is legally obliged to carry out the data
protection at the anti-terrorist database and the right-wing extremism database at the
dekriminalamt (LKA) and the Office for the Protection of the Constitution (§ 10 Anti-
terror file law (ATDG), § 11 right-wing extremism file law (RED-G)).
The documents are regularly classified as "Secret" and "Top Secret".
The controls are mandatory this year. With the appointment
a person to the state commissioner for data protection, the
Authorizations of the director of the office with regard to his activity as
supervisory authority. For this reason, a state representative without prior
successful security check is not able to pass the legally required
comply with written control obligations. Even with reports about possible
data protection violations should not give him access to any information
be made clear. Incidentally, this applies to all
graded papers.
 

It is advisable to determine the above conditions before an election,
otherwise if the requirements are not met, in particular if the
Security review, a deselection by Parliament would have to take place (§ 21
sentence 3 DSAG LSA).

Stands for inquiries
poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de.

You Mr. Albert Cohaus, Tel. 0391 81803-0;

Imprint:

 
State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt
 
Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office
 
Otto-von-Guericke-Str. 34a, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803 - 0
Fax: 0391 81803 - 33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

