
DetailHomeNewsDetail


02/02/2023
Press Conference “Best of Freedom of Information” 2022
                
                        
                                                               ;
                                ©
                                LfDIAOn February 2, 2023, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) invited to his annual press conference "Best of Informationsfreiheit - Informationsfreiheit in Rheinland-Pfalz in 2022". The formative topics of the year from the point of view of freedom of information were as in the previous year the flood on the Ahr, but also a number of sometimes bizarre cases from the everyday life of the LfDI were presented.The press conference took place in hybrid form (both in the office of the state commissioner and via video conference).The state commissioner reported on exciting and interesting cases from his mediation and consulting work in the area of freedom of information in 2022. These include inquiries in connection with the flood disaster in the Ahr Valley, for example, a citizen applied for a flood and heavy rain prevention concept to be sent, another person applied to the Altenahr municipality flood alarm plan available there. Appropriate applications not only reached the municipal level, but also the state ministries: Among other things, an applicant applied to the Ministry of the Interior and Sport for the situation report of the police helicopter squadron from the night of the flood. This year again, curious cases occurred, such as an application being rejected by e-mail from a district that could not be assigned to any employee. Upon the intervention of the LfDI, the district proved to be cooperative and the information was released.Prof. Kugelmann makes it clear: “Freedom of information is an important right of individuals in the information society. Neither strange or implausible applications nor unfounded or ill-considered rejections from authorities change anything. Our practice shows that the system of the State Transparency Act works. Expanding knowledge of the law and strengthening its acceptance remain an ongoing task.” The most exciting and interesting cases from 2022 can be found in the table template. rlp.de/informationsfreiheit
return




