
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    01/25/2021
                                Targeted information for teachers: data protection officer provides compact knowledge on school data protection In order to answer the most important questions from teachers, a new question and answer area (FAQ) has been created on the LfDI's website which often raise questions about the data collected and processed. But the abolition of the "Privacy Shield" after a ruling by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) last summer has changed the requirements for the systems used in schools again.
In November and December 2020, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) and the State Educational Institute of Rhineland-Palatinate (PL), together with the Ministry of Education and with the cooperation of the lawyer Antonia Dufeu, therefore organized seven online seminars for teachers entitled "Schoolish Data protection in practice - what you always wanted to ask". In addition to raising awareness of basic data protection law, the training courses aimed to answer technical and legal questions that frequently arise in the school context. In order to address the requirements of the individual school types as specifically as possible, a distinction was made between the target groups of primary and special needs schools, secondary and vocational schools as well as media centers and multipliers. A total of over 350 teachers took part in the seminars. The spectrum ranged from questions about the function and tasks of school data protection officers to dealing with non-European online services after the ECJ ruling to the processing of student data on private devices.
The state data protection officer Professor Dieter Kugelmann says: “The high number of participants is very gratifying. It shows that teachers have a great interest and a strong awareness of designing distance learning in accordance with data protection. Webinars and online training courses are currently the means of choice for my agency to convey data protection knowledge. With more than 40,000 teachers in Rhineland-Palatinate, we will therefore continue to support the target group with digital offers as well as compact information and handouts in the future.” The LfDI and the PL will already be offering further joint online training courses on data protection in schools in the summer.
The LfDI provides the questions and answers from the events as well as sample texts and templates centrally on this FAQ page.
                                return
                            



