 

Confidential/Registered
CP&A B.V.
attn. the direction
PO Box 514
5600 AM Eindhoven

 

 

Date
March 24, 2020
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 

 
Topic
Decision to impose an administrative fine
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authority data.nl

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Dear management,
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP) has decided to inform CP&A B.V. (CP&A) an administrative fine of
€15,000 to be imposed. The AP believes that CP&A will suspend the ban from March 12, 2019 to May 2, 2019.
of Article 9, first paragraph, of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
by processing health data of its employees. In addition, CP&A has for this
processing during the same period did not take adequate security measures if
referred to in Article 32(1) of the GDPR.
 
The decision is explained in more detail below. Chapter 1 is an introduction and chapter 2 describes it
legal framework. Chapter 3 contains the facts and in chapter 4 the DPA assesses whether there is
processing of health data, the processing responsibility and the violations. In
Chapter 5 sets out the (amount of the) administrative fine and Chapter 6 contains the operative part and the
remedies clause.
 

 

  

 

1



 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Date
March 24, 2020

 

1 Introduction

1.1 Legal entity involved and reason for investigation
 
CP&A is a private company with its registered office at Maas 22E, 5684 PL in Best (North Brabant).
CP&A is registered in the trade register of the Chamber of Commerce under number 54592526
and, according to the extract from the trade register, employs approximately 160 people. CP&A performed
according to the trade register and its website, among other things, inspection and maintenance work of public
objects.
 
The AP received a notification on January 11, 2019 that CP&A is processing health data from its
employees. The AP supervisors concluded from the report that CP&A is an online
maintains absenteeism registration containing health data of sick employees. In response to
this signal, the AP has launched an (official) investigation into CP&A's compliance with Articles 9 and
32 of the GDPR.
 
The processing of special categories of personal data is subject to Article 9, first paragraph, of
prohibited by the GDPR, unless a legal exception applies. The AP tests in the following whether
CP&A can successfully invoke the exception relevant to this case. In addition, the AP
or CP&A for the health data in its absenteeism registration sufficiently appropriate technical and
has taken organizational measures to ensure a security level appropriate to the risk
safeguards, as referred to in Article 32(1) of the GDPR.
 
1.2 Process
 
The AP contacted CP&A by telephone on 2 May 2019 to indicate that the
CP&A's absenteeism registration is accessible to unauthorized persons and it has requested CP&A to
violation as soon as possible. On 2 May 2019, following the telephone call, the AP
conversation sent a norm-transferring letter and the legal framework with regard to the reporting obligation of
explained personal data breaches to the AP. By letter dated 7 May 2019, CP&A has de
receipt of the letter and indicated that the absence registration has been deleted.
 
On May 7, 2019, CP&A filed a data breach notification regarding the breach related to
personal data.
 
In a letter dated 29 July 2019, the AP asked CP&A questions, to which it responded by letter dated 7
August 2019. On August 21, 2019, the AP requested further information from CP&A by email.
CP&A responded by email dated August 28, 2019.
 
In a letter dated October 30, 2019, the AP sent CP&A an intention to enforce and comply with it
sent the basis of the investigation report and gave CP&A the opportunity to submit a

 

 

2/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
expressing the point of view. On November 12, 2019, CP&A submitted a written opinion
created. Finally, on January 30, 2020, the AP added further documents to the file and CP&A de
given the opportunity to respond to these documents. CP&A has not made use of this.
 

2. Legal framework

2.1 Scope GDPR
 
Pursuant to Article 2(1) of the GDPR, this Regulation applies to all or part of
automated processing, as well as to the processing of personal data that are in a file
included or intended to be included therein.
 
Pursuant to Article 3(1) of the GDPR, this Regulation applies to the processing of
personal data in the context of the activities of an establishment of a
controller or a processor in the Union, whether or not the processing is carried out in the Union
does not take place.
 
Pursuant to Article 4 of the GDPR, for the purposes of this Regulation:
1. “Personal data”: any information about an identified or identifiable natural person
(“the data subject”); […].
2. “Processing”: an operation or set of operations relating to personal data or
a set of personal data, whether or not carried out by automated processes […].
7. “Controller” means a […] legal entity that, alone or jointly with others, fulfills the purpose of
and determine the means of processing personal data; […].
 
2.2 Prohibition of processing health data
 
Article 4(15) of the GDPR defines health data as personal data that
relating to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including data
on health services provided that provide information about his health status.
 
Pursuant to Article 9(1) of the GDPR, the processing of health data is prohibited.
 
Exceptions to the prohibition to process special personal data are stated in Article 9.
second paragraph of the GDPR. In so far as relevant, that provision reads:
[…]
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of obligations and the exercise of
specific rights of the controller or data subject with regard to the
labor law and social security and social protection law, to the extent permitted by
Union or Member State law or by collective agreement under Member State law which
provides appropriate safeguards for the fundamental rights and interests of the data subject;

 

 

3/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
[…]
 
Pursuant to Article 30 of the Implementing Act of the General Data Protection Regulation (UAVG), the
Article 9(2)(b) of the GDPR does not prohibit the processing of health data
applicable if the processing is carried out by administrative bodies, pension funds, employers or
institutions working on their behalf, and insofar as the processing is necessary for:
[…]
b. the reintegration or guidance of employees or beneficiaries in connection with illness or
incapacity for work.
[…]
 
2.3 Processing security
 
Pursuant to Article 32(1) of the GDPR, the controller shall take into account […]
the state of the art, the implementation costs, as well as the nature, scope, context and
processing purposes and the risks of varying likelihood and severity to the rights and
freedoms of persons, appropriate technical and organizational measures to
ensure an appropriate level of security […].
 
Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 32, when assessing the appropriate security level,
taking into account the processing risks, in particular as a result of the destruction, loss,
modification or unauthorized disclosure of or access to any transmitted, stored or
otherwise processed data, whether accidentally or unlawfully.
 
2.4 Administrative fine
 
Pursuant to Article 58, second paragraph, preamble and under i, in conjunction with Article 83, fourth and fifth paragraphs, of the
AVG and Article 14, third paragraph, of the UAVG, the AP is authorized to file a complaint with regard to infringements of the AVG.
administrative fine.
 
2.4.1 GDPR
Pursuant to Article 83(1) of the GDPR, each supervisory authority shall ensure that the
administrative fines imposed under this Article for the items referred to in paragraphs four, five
and six listed breaches of this Regulation are effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each case.
 
Under paragraph 2, administrative fines shall be, according to the circumstances of the
specific case, imposed in addition to or instead of the provisions of Article 58, second paragraph, under a to h and under j,
measures referred to.
 
It follows from the fourth paragraph, opening words and under a, that an infringement of the obligations of the
controller and processor as per Article 32 of the GDPR in accordance with paragraph 2

 

 

4/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
is subject to an administrative fine of up to €10,000,000 or, for a company, up to 2% of
the total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, whichever is higher.
 
It follows from the fifth paragraph, opening words and under a, that an infringement of the basic principles regarding processing as in
Article 9 of the GDPR pursuant to paragraph 2 is subject to an administrative fine of up to
€20,000,000 or, for a company, up to 4% of total worldwide annual sales in the previous
financial year, if this figure is higher.
 
2.4.2 UAVG
Pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 3, of the UAVG, the AP may, in the event of a violation of the provisions of Article
83, fourth, fifth or sixth paragraph, of the Regulation, impose an administrative fine not exceeding the in
amounts referred to in these members.
 

3. Facts

-

The AP has established that CP&A will in any case from March 12, 2019 to May 2, 2019
absenteeism records in a Google Drive file on the Internet that contains the following
data of 25 (sick) employees were listed1:
-
branch;
-  Name;
-  Last name;
-  Starting date;
-
End date;
- Number of calendar days;
- grounds for absence;

-
- social security number;
-  Date of birth;
-  Employment
(temporary/permanent);
-  Date service;
- Contractures;
-

-  Comments;
-
-  House number;
-
-  Residence;
-

Prognosis
(short/medium/long);

End of contract date.

Phone number;

(nursing) address;

E-mail address;

Postal Code;

 
In this period from March 12 to May 2, 2019, the AP via the web address known to it has the
website six times and found to be without any authentication or other
access control could view the absence registration. The AP has further determined that the
absence registration has been actively updated due to the fact that the contents of the absence registration
changed weekly.2
 
By letter dated 7 May 2019, CP&A indicated that the relevant file with
health data has been removed and is no longer available.3 The AP determined on May 13, 2019
that the absence registration was no longer accessible via the web address known to it.4 In addition,

                                                                        
1 AP research report, September 3, 2019, appendix 2 to 8.
2 AP research report, September 3, 2019, appendix 2 to 8.
3 Letter of 7 May 2019 from CP&A to the AP.
4 AP research report, September 3, 2019, appendix 8.

 

 

5/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
the AP determined on the basis of a copy of CP&A's new absence registration that CP&A
no longer registers the reason for absence.5
 

4.Review

4.1 Processing of health data
 
As stated in chapter 3, the AP has determined that CP&A in any case from March 12, 2019 to
as of May 2, 2019, maintained an absence record in a Google Drive file in which the following
personal data of 25 (sick) employees were listed: the name, surname,
(nursing) address, house number, zip code, place of residence, telephone number, e-mail address,
Citizen Service Number (BSN) and date of birth.6 This meant that the CP&A employees involved were immediately
identifiable. The aforementioned data are therefore personal data as referred to in Article 4,
part 1 of the GDPR.
 
Furthermore, the AP has established that CP&A in the absenteeism registration provides the reason for absence (about both the physical and
as mental health), the prognosis and the comments about the reason for absence and prognosis about this
employees.7 In the opinion of the AP, these data are health data
within the meaning of Article 4(15) of the GDPR.
 
By digitally registering, storing, updating and making these personal data available from
(sick) employees and keeping up with the absenteeism registration, CP&A has data about health
(partially) automated processing within the meaning of Article 4, part 2, of the GDPR.
 
In view of the foregoing, the AP concludes that CP&A data on the health of 25
employees in the period from March 12, 2019 to May 2, 2019.
 
4.2 Controller
 
The AP is of the opinion that CP&A has determined the purposes and means for the processing of personal data,
including health data. CP&A has stated that absenteeism and reintegration
is an important point of attention within the organisation. CP&A has made the decision to
to include an overview of its sick employees in a file specially designed for that purpose in order to
to keep an overview, to prevent people from getting out of the picture and to interpret them in the best possible way
can give to the reintegration.8 In addition, the fact that CP&A has the absence registration
removed that the decision-making power of whether or not to process absenteeism data rests with CP&A.
 

                                                                        
5 Letter dated August 7, 2019 from CP&A to the AP.
6 AP research report, September 3, 2019, appendix 2 to 8.
7 AP research report, September 3, 2019, appendix 2 to 8.
8 Opinion CP&A, 12 November 2019, p. 2.

 

 

6/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP designates CP&A as the controller as referred to in Article 4(7) of the
GDPR.
 
4.3 Violation of the prohibition on processing health data
 
4.3.1 Introduction
Health data falls under the special category of personal data.
Personal data that are particularly sensitive deserve specific protection, because the processing
can pose high risks to fundamental rights and freedoms. The processing of
special categories of personal data is therefore, pursuant to Article 9(1) of the GDPR
prohibited, unless a legal exception applies.9
 
In the following, the AP checks whether CP&A can successfully invoke the relevant criteria for this case:
exception as referred to in Article 9, second paragraph, preamble and under b of the GDPR jo. Article 30, first paragraph,
preamble and under b, of the UAVG.
 
4.3.2 Legal framework
Pursuant to Article 9, second paragraph, preamble and under b of the GDPR, the controller may
process health data if this is necessary for the implementation of
obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the controller or the
person concerned in the field of labor law and social security and social protection law.
This exception does not apply directly on the basis of the GDPR, but leaves room for the Member States
to arrive at a more detailed explanation. That happened in the Netherlands in the UAVG.
 
Article 30, first paragraph, preamble and under b of the UAVG provides in that context that the processing of data
about health is allowed if this is necessary for the reintegration or guidance of employees
or benefit claimants in connection with illness or incapacity for work. In sector-specific legislation,
this ground for exception is then specified in more detail. With regard to reintegration, the AP notes
that employers are obliged, pursuant to Article 658a, second paragraph, of Book 7 of the Civil
Code (BW) to take those measures as soon as possible that are necessary to enable a sick employee to
to do his own or other appropriate work. Although processing of health data
may therefore be mandatory, the nature and scope of the data that may be processed is
limited by the requirement of necessity as laid down in Article 9, second paragraph, preamble, and under
b, GDPR. This means that there must always be an assessment of each processing whether the
processing is really necessary in light of the reintegration obligation that rests on the employer.
 
In the policy rules 'The sick employee' (the policy rules) of the AP, which was published on 29 April 2016 in the
Government Gazette, it is specified which medical personal data the employer in the
within the framework of reintegration and absenteeism counseling may be processed and can be used as necessary

                                                                        
9 See also Recital 51 of the GDPR.

 

 

7/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
which are not necessary and therefore may not be processed.10 The legal rules
regarding the processing of personal data about the health of sick employees in the context of
their reintegration and absenteeism guidance as laid down in the Protection Act
personal data has not changed with the GDPR coming into effect on 25 May 2018.11 The
policy rules, although written in the context of the Wbp, are therefore still of corresponding
applicable to processing operations under the GDPR.
 
The data that may be processed according to these policy rules are:12

- the work for which the employee is no longer or is still capable (functional)

limitations, residual opportunities and implications for the type of work the employee can still do
to do);

- the expected duration of the absence;
- the extent to which the employee is incapacitated for work (based on functional limitations,

-

residual possibilities and implications for the type of work the employee can still do);
any advice on adjustments, work facilities or interventions that the employer
the reintegration has to take place.

 
The data that may not be processed under these policies include:13

- diagnoses, name of illness, specific complaints or indications of pain;
-
-
- other situational problems, such as relationship problems, past problems, relocation,

own subjective observations, both about mental and physical health;
data about therapies, appointments with doctors, physiotherapists, psychologists, etc.;

death of partner, divorce, etc.

 
4.3.3 Assessment
As stated in chapter 3, the AP established that CP&A kept an absence registration in which the
reason for absenteeism (on both physical and mental health), the prognosis and comments on the
reason for absenteeism and the prognosis for its employees was recorded.
 
The AP has assessed this data on the basis of the aforementioned legal framework. In the
policy rules of the AP, it has been specified which medical personal data the employer can provide in the context
of the reintegration and absenteeism guidance and can be used as necessary
designated. The AP concludes that the absenteeism registration contained health data
which, due to the lack of a necessity, were not allowed to be processed by CP&A. It's alright
in doing so for the reasons for absenteeism stated with regard to 25 involved parties, including the names of
physical and mental illnesses, specific complaints and indications of pain. For some employees in the
comment box further information is recorded about health.
                                                                        
10 Policy rules for the processing of personal data about the health of sick employees, Dutch Data Protection Authority
(Government Gazette 2016, 21703).
11 See the old Article 21, first paragraph, opening words and under f, under 2, of the Personal Data Protection Act and the current Article 30,
first paragraph, under b, of the UAVG. And Parliamentary Papers II 2017/2018, 34851, 3, p. 109.
12 Policy rules sick employee, paragraph 5.2.2., p. 27.
13 Policy rules sick employee, paragraph 5.2.1., p. 25, read in conjunction with p. 27.

 

 

8/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
Pursuant to Article 9, second paragraph, preamble and under b of the GDPR, the controller may
process health data if this is necessary for the implementation of
obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the controller or the
person concerned in the field of labor law and social security and social protection law.
Article 30, first paragraph, preamble and under b of the UAVG provides in that context that the processing of data
about health is allowed if this is necessary for the reintegration or guidance of employees
or benefit claimants in connection with illness or incapacity for work. Because processing
names of diseases, specific complaints and indications of pain is not necessary for the reintegration of
employees, as also follows the policies of the AP, their processing is prohibited. CP&A can
thus not successfully invoking Article 30, first paragraph and under b, of the UAVG. The AP has not been found
that CP&A can successfully invoke the other exceptions of Article 30 of the UAVG. the AP
thus, CP&A believes that the above-mentioned health data violates the prohibition of Article
9, first paragraph, of the GDPR.
 
With regard to the period of this violation, the AP last determined on May 2, 2019 that
CP&A has processed the health data in its absenteeism registration. As mentioned in chapter 3
the AP subsequently established on 13 May 2019 that the absence registration is no longer accessible via
the web address known to her. Finally, the AP has established that in the current absenteeism registration the
reason for absence is no longer registered by CP&A.
 
4.3.4 Conclusion
The AP comes to the conclusion that CP&A, as a data controller, has been notified of at least March 12, 2019
up to and including 2 May 2019, has violated the prohibition of Article 9(1) of the GDPR by
to process health data of 25 employees.
 
4.4 Processing Security Violation
 
4.4.1 Introduction
To ensure security and prevent the processing of personal data from infringing
to the GDPR, the controller must, pursuant to Article 32 of the GDPR,
processing inherent risks and take measures to mitigate risks. That
measures should ensure an appropriate level of security, taking into account the status
of the technology and the implementation costs compared to the risks and the nature of the
personal data.14 In the following, the AP checks whether CP&A has an appropriate security level
used for the processing of the health data in its absenteeism registration as
accessible via the web address.
 
4.4.2 Assessment
Pursuant to Article 32(1) of the GDPR, the controller must provide appropriate and
take technical and organizational measures to ensure a security level appropriate to the risk
                                                                        
14 Recital 83 of the GDPR.

 

 

9/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
to ensure. In assessing the risks, according to Article 32, second paragraph, of the GDPR, attention must be paid to
to be spent on risks that arise in the processing of personal data, such as the
unauthorized disclosure or access to the transmitted, stored or
otherwise processed data, either accidentally or unlawfully.
 
The more sensitive the data is, or the context in which it is used a
poses a greater threat to the privacy of those involved, stricter requirements are imposed
placed on data security. This means that high demands are made on the technical and
organizational measures to protect this data.15 With regard to authentication at the
access to the processing of data about the health of (sick) employees and where access
is provided via the internet, one must therefore take stricter measures to comply with a
appropriate security level, such as two-factor authentication.16
 
The AP has established that the absenteeism registration (containing health data) of CP&A without
some form of authentication was accessible. The AP is of the opinion that CP&A vis-à-vis its
absenteeism registration has applied an insufficiently appropriate security level. CP&A had seen the
sensitive nature of the data, the fact that the health data was processed on the internet and
the risks to the privacy of the data subjects should take further measures to prevent the
mitigate the risk of unauthorized access to the absence registration. However, CP&A has failed to do so.
She could have avoided this lack of security by, for example,
implement an authentication technique (or other method) to verify the claimed identity of a
user of the absenteeism registration. The AP considers such a security measure,
appropriate in view of the current state of the art and implementation costs.
 
The AP is therefore of the opinion that CP&A has violated Article 32, first paragraph, of the GDPR because CP&A
an insufficiently appropriate in relation to the health data in its absenteeism registration
security level.
 
CP&A view and AP response
CP&A argues in its view that it had only one aim with the absenteeism registration: to
support employees as best as possible during a period of illness and reintegration. CP&A
believed that it handled it correctly, in accordance with the applicable regulations
with the data of the employees involved and also carefully had that data in such a way
secured that they were not freely accessible. To protect the privacy of the data subject
employees, the file was only accessible via a specific link. The link was only provided to
those persons who are/were involved in the reintegration of employees and as such
absenteeism data had to be available to guide the employees as well as possible
absenteeism and reintegration (management, two regional managers, one HRM employee, the HRM
manager and the absenteeism supervisor). Other than those people, no one had access. CP&A doesn't have one
take into account that the link would be provided to a third party without authorization. With today's knowledge
                                                                        
15 See also Policy rules for the processing of personal data about the health of sick employees, p. 13.
16 See also policy rules for the processing of personal data about the health of sick employees, p. 7.

 

 

10/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
CP&A deeply regrets that it did not see that risk and that it therefore reduced it for a third
possible to consult the data.
 
Based on CP&A's view, the AP does not come to a different conclusion. Providing a
specific link only to persons who are/were involved in the reintegration of employees
albeit an organizational measure that benefits the security of personal data.
However, given the sensitive nature of the data, CP&A had the health data on the
internet were processed and the risks to the privacy of those involved also a
appropriate technical measure, such as, for example, the implementation of a
authentication technique at the link. With such a measure, CP&A had the risk that a third party
unauthorized access to highly sensitive data.
 
4.4.3 Conclusion
The AP comes to the conclusion that CP&A, as a data controller, has been notified of at least March 12, 2019
up to and including 2 May 2019, has infringed Article 32(1) of the GDPR by
health data in its absenteeism registration to use an insufficiently appropriate security level.
 
4.5 Final conclusion
 
First of all, the AP comes to the conclusion that CP&A from at least March 12, 2019 to May 2, 2019
has violated the prohibition of Article 9(1) of the GDPR by health data of 25
processing employees. In addition, the AP comes to the conclusion that CP&A in the same period
32, first paragraph, of the GDPR by having regard to this health data in its
absenteeism registration does not take adequate technical and organizational measures to
to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk.
 

5. Fine

5.1 Introduction
 
From at least March 12, 2019 to May 2, 2019, CP&A has Article 9, first paragraph, and Article 32,
first paragraph of the GDPR. With regard to both established violations, the AP uses
of its authority to impose a fine on CP&A pursuant to Article 58, second paragraph, preamble and
under i and Article 83, paragraphs 4 and 5, of the GDPR read in conjunction with Article 14, paragraph 3, of the
UAVG. For this, the AP uses the Fine Policy Rules 2019.17
 
In the following, the AP will first briefly explain the fine system, followed by the motivation
of the amount of the fine in the present cases.
 

                                                                        
17 Stct. 2019, 14586, March 14, 2019.

 

 

11/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
5.2 Fines Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019 (Fines Policy Rules 2019)
 
In the event of a violation of the unlawful processing of special personal data pursuant to Article 9, first paragraph,
of the GDPR, the AP is authorized to impose a fine up to a maximum of € 20,000,000, or up to 4% of the
total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, whichever is higher. This based on article
58, second paragraph, preamble and under i and Article 83 of the GDPR read in conjunction with Article 14, third paragraph,
of the UAVG. On the basis of the appendix to the Fine Policy Rules 2019, this violation falls within the highest
category, namely category IV.
 
And for violation of Article 32, first paragraph, of the GDPR, the AP is authorized to impose an administrative fine
up to € 10,000,000 or up to 2% of the total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, if
this figure is higher. Based on the appendix to the Fine Policy Rules 2019, this violation falls into category
II.
 
On the basis of Article 2.3 of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the AP applies for the above
violations the following penalty bandwidths:
Category II: Fine range between €120,000 and €500,000 and a basic fine of €310,000. […].
Category IV: Fine range between €450,000 and €1,000,000 and a basic fine of €725,000. […].
 
Pursuant to Article 6 of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the AP determines the amount of the fine by dividing the amount
from the basic fine upwards (up to a maximum of the bandwidth of the
violation linked fine category) or down (to at least the minimum of that
bandwidth). The basic fine is increased or decreased depending on the extent to which the
factors referred to in Article 7 of the 2019 Fine Policy Rules give rise to this.
 
Pursuant to Article 7, without prejudice to Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the General Administrative Law Act
(Awb) taking into account the factors derived from Article 83, second paragraph, of the GDPR and in the
Policy rules 2019 referred to under a to k:
the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement
processing in question as well as the number of data subjects affected and the extent of the damage suffered by them
injury;
b. the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
c. the measures taken by the controller […] to address the data subjects suffered
limit damage;
d. the extent to which the controller […] is responsible given the technical and
organizational measures that he has carried out in accordance with Articles 25 and 32 of the GDPR;
e. previous relevant breaches by the controller […];
f. the extent to which there has been cooperation with the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and
limit the possible negative consequences thereof;
g. the categories of personal data to which the breach relates;
h. the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular whether, and
if so, to what extent, the controller […] has notified the breach;
i. compliance with the measures referred to in Article 58, paragraph 2, of the GDPR, insofar as they are previously
with regard to the controller […] in question with regard to the same

 

 

12/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
matter have been taken;
j. adherence to approved codes of conduct in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR or of
approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42 of the GDPR; and
k. any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial gains made, or losses avoided, arising directly or indirectly from the infringement
result.
 
In the present case, it concerns an assessment of the nature, seriousness and duration of the violation
in the specific case. In principle, within the bandwidth of the violation
linked fine category. The AP may, if necessary and depending on the extent to which the aforementioned
factors give rise to this, on the basis of Article 8.1 of the Fines Policy Rules 2019 de
apply penalty bandwidth of the next higher and next lower category respectively. In addition
the AP assesses when imposing an administrative fine on the basis of Article 5:46, second paragraph, of the
Awb to what extent this can be blamed on the offender. Finally, the AP will, on the basis of its
Fines policy rules 2019 and articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the Awb assess whether the application of its policy for
determining the amount of the fine, given the circumstances and the capacity of CP&A in this
specific case, does not lead to a disproportionate outcome.
 
5.3 Fine for violation of the prohibition on processing data about health and health
processing security
 
5.3.1. Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement
Pursuant to Article 7, opening words and under a, of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the AP takes into account the nature,
the seriousness and duration of the infringement. In its assessment, the AP takes into account, among other things, the nature, the
scope or purpose of the processing as well as the number of data subjects affected and the scope of the data
suffered damage to them.
 
The protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is a fundamental right.
Under Article 8(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 16,
paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), everyone has the right to
protection of his personal data. The principles and rules concerning the protection of
natural persons when processing their personal data must be in accordance with
their fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular their right to protection of
personal data. The GDPR aims to contribute to the creation of an area of freedom,
security and justice and of economic union, as well as to economic and social progress, the
strengthening and convergence of economies within the internal market and the well-being of natural
persons. The processing of personal data must serve people. The right to
protection of personal data is not absolute, but must be considered in relation to
to its function in society and must conform to the principle of proportionality against other
fundamental rights are weighed up. Any processing of personal data must be fair and lawful
to happen. The personal data must be sufficient, relevant and limited to:
what is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. Personal data must be

 

 

13/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security and confidentiality of that data,
also to prevent unauthorized access to or use of personal data and
the equipment used for processing.
The GDPR offers a high level of protection for particularly sensitive personal data.
Personal data that are particularly sensitive deserve specific protection, because the processing
can pose high risks to fundamental rights and freedoms. Those involved serve
therefore have a high degree of control over their health data. The starting point is therefore that
processing of special personal data is in principle prohibited. There is only a limited number of
and exceptions laid down in the (U) AVG are possible. CP&A has with the processing of
health data in this case the high level of protection offered by Article 9(1) of the GDPR
violated.
 
Pursuant to Article 32(1) of the GDPR, the controller must also:
take appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a risk-adjusted
to ensure a level of security. In determining the risk to the data subject, the
nature of the personal data and the nature of the processing of interest: these factors determine the
potential damage to the individual data subject in the event of, for example, loss, alteration or unlawful
processing the data. The AP has come to the conclusion that CP&A is not an appropriate
has taken security measures that relate to the health data in its absenteeism registration.
 
The AP has determined that CP&A from at least March 12, 2019 to May 2, 2019
processed health data of 25 employees without appropriate security. This one
health data contained highly sensitive information such as names of physical and mental illnesses,
specific complaints and pain indications of its employees. During this period, CP&A has
have violated the prohibition on the processing of special personal data and have
data subjects therefore had no control over their health data. And it is precisely this control that the
GDPR wants to offer to data subjects, so that data subjects are able to protect their personal data
and to surrender it freely. In addition, during this period, the absenteeism registration of
CP&A accessible without any form of authentication. This gives CP&A employees a
high and unnecessary risk of unauthorized access to their personal data. The fact that it's here
concerns the processing of particularly sensitive data, an insufficient security of the
data extra.
 
In the opinion of the AP, there are therefore two serious violations in which CP&A
has processed data of data subjects under incorrect conditions, but pursuant to Article 7
of the Fines Policy Rules 2019 to the extent applicable in the present
case there is no reason to increase or decrease the amount of the fine. However, in paragraph 5.4, the AP will
assess whether the amount of the fine needs to be adjusted on the basis of proportionality.
 
5.3.2 Blame
Pursuant to Article 5:46, second paragraph, of the Awb, when imposing an administrative fine, the AP
into account the extent to which this can be blamed on the offender. Now this is about

 

 

14/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
violations, the imposition of an administrative fine in accordance with established case law18 does not require that
it is demonstrated that there is intent and the AP may presume culpability if it
offense is established.19
 
Pursuant to Article 9(1) of the GDPR, it is in principle prohibited to disclose health data
to process. The legal rules regarding the processing of personal data about the health of
sick employees in the context of their reintegration and absenteeism guidance as laid down in
the Personal Data Protection Act with the GDPR coming into effect on May 25, 2018
not changed. In addition, CP&A had from the policy rules 'The sick employee' of the AP, which had already been published on 29
have been published in the Government Gazette in April 2016, can determine which personal data CP&A does and
should not have processed. A party such as CP&A may, partly in view of the special nature of the
personal data, are expected to duly ascertain the standards that apply to it and
comply with this. CP&A has a high level of protection for special
personal data violated. The AP considers this to be culpable.
 
Pursuant to Article 32 of the GDPR, the policy rules 'The sick employee' and the nature of the processing,
CP&A should also have known that it should have taken further measures to reduce the risk of
to mitigate unauthorized access to the absence registration. CP&A has failed to provide access to
the absence registration via the web address in any case uses a suitable authentication technique (or another
method) to prove a user's claimed identity. Also this
considers the AP culpable.
 
5.3.3 CP&A opinion and AP . response
CP&A states in its view that it has taken the corrective measures already taken,
which she understands to the AP refers to the request of the AP to rectify the violation as soon as possible
terminate, and has immediately provided full cooperation. The absence registration will only be
maintained in the secure environment of the HRM system, which is only accessible to the department
HRM and direct managers. In addition, CP&A no longer processes the reason for absence and the
prognosis only registered insofar as it can be deduced from the reports of the company doctor
without medical information.
 
In view of the foregoing and thereby also expressly taking into account the fact that CP&A is a
is a medium-sized enterprise within the meaning of Article 2a UAVG and taking into account the way in which
for example, the issues of Nippon Express (2017) and Stichting Abtona (2016) have been resolved
CP&A the AP to suffice with the corrective measures already taken pursuant to Article 58 of the GDPR.
In addition, CP&A points to the fact that the parties concerned — fortunately — were not harmed, that
CP&A has in no way acted intentionally or negligently, that there have been no previous infringements
and that CP&A has deployed (additional) guidance from an external advisor in the field of privacy.

                                                                        
18 Cf. CBb 29 October 2014, ECLI:NL:CBB:2014:395, r.o. 3.5.4, CBb September 2, 2015, ECLI:NL:CBB:2015:312, r.o. 3.7 and CBb March 7, 2016,
ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:54, r.o. 8.3, ABRvS 29 August 2018, ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:2879, r.o. 3.2 and ABRvS December 5, 2018,
ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:3969, r.o. 5.1.
19 Parliamentary Papers II 2003/04, 29702, no. 3, p. 134.

 

 

15/17



 

Date
March 24, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP does not share CP&A's view. CP&A should have failed to provide health data in this case
of its employees. In addition, CP&A has not taken adequate measures
to ensure the security of its absenteeism system. This CP&A conduct is detrimental
committed to protecting the personal data of its employees. Given the seriousness of the
violations, the AP considers the imposition of a corrective measure, other than an administrative fine,
insufficiently effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The AP finds the imposition of an administrative fine
appropriate in this case. In determining the height, it will take into account the
position and capacity of CP&A. CP&A has also stated that the data subjects are not harm
caused, but this has not been proven, nor can it be ruled out that further damage may occur in the future
to arise. This ground of appeal, alone or together with the other complaints, is given by the AP in view of the seriousness of the
violations and the degree of culpability are no reason to refrain from imposing a fine or
further mitigate the fine on the grounds stated by CP&A.
 
The AP sets the fine for violation of Article 9, first paragraph, of the GDPR at € 725,000. And
for the violation of Article 32, first paragraph, of the GDPR, the AP sets the fine at € 310,000.
 
5.4 Proportionality and capacity
Finally, on the basis of Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the Awb (principle of proportionality), the AP assesses whether the
applying its policy for determining the amount of the fine given the circumstances of the
specific case, does not lead to a disproportionate outcome. Application of the principle of proportionality may
inter alia play in the accumulation of sanctions and the capacity of the
controller.
 
CP&A has invoked limited capacity. Based on the at the AP at the moment
known financial data from CP&A, the AP considers the capacity of CP&A to be limited, as a result of which the AP to
the conclusion is that CP&A will pay the combined fine of both violations of €1,035,000
cannot afford it financially. On this basis, the AP sees reason to reduce the fine. the AP
deems a fine of € 15,000 appropriate and appropriate in this case and deems CP&A to have sufficient financial means to
to pay this amount.
 
5.5 Conclusion
The AP sets the total fine at € 15,000.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

16/17



 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Date
March 24, 2020

 

6.Dictum

 

fine
 
The AP submits to CP&A, for violation of Article 9, first paragraph, of the GDPR and Article 32, first paragraph, of
the GDPR imposes an administrative fine in the amount of € 15,000 (in words: fifteen thousand euros).20
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority Personal Data,
 
w.g.
 
drs. C.E. Mur
board member
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can return it within six weeks of the date of dispatch of the
decide to submit a notice of objection digitally or on paper to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Submit it
of a notice of objection suspends the effect of this decision. For submitting a digital objection, see
www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl, under the heading Objecting to a decision, at the bottom of the
page under the heading Contact with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The address for paper submission
is: Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague.
State 'Awb objection' on the envelope and put 'objection' in the title of your letter.
In your notice of objection, write at least:
- your name and address;
- the date of your notice of objection;
- the reference mentioned in this letter (case number); or attach a copy of this decision;
- the reason(s) why you do not agree with this decision;
- your signature.
                                                                        
20 The AP will hand over the aforementioned claim to the Central Judicial Collection Agency (CJIB).
 

 

 

17/17

