1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00231/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 2, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against UNIÓN SINDICAL OBRERA with NIF G28567402 (in
later, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the sending by email of the census
election for the union elections to be held on 02/26/2020, carried out by the
trade union section of UNION SINDICAL OBRERA of your workplace.

The claimant considers that they must have their consent for this
data processing, and he has not granted it. The shipment has been made, according to
comments, to "affiliates and sympathizers of the union itself".

In the electoral census, which is provided, the following personal data is observed:
DNI, name and surnames, date of birth and date of seniority in the center.

Along with the claim, provide a copy of the email from USE
accompanying electoral census.

SECOND: In view of the reported facts, on June 3, 2020, the
moved from the present claim to the claimed one stating that the treatment
of the personal data of the provisional list of voters is found
sufficiently legitimized in section 6.1.c of the RGPD, not needing
consent of the interested party.

To substantiate said treatment, they cite arts. 16 and 26 of Law 9/1987 of 12
June, of Representative Bodies, Determination of Working Conditions and
Participation of Personnel at the Service of Public Administrations, in connection
with art. 14 of Royal Decree 1846/1994, of September 9, which approves
the Regulation of elections to representative bodies of the personnel at the service of
the General Administration of the State.

They are aware that there is no explicit obligation to send the census by mail
electronic, treatment that could find accommodation in art. 6.1.f (interest
legitimate).

Considers that the treatment object of this procedure does not cause any damage
on the rights and freedoms of the affected party or claimant. The union believes that
e-mail is the most appropriate means of disseminating the provisional list of
voters, due to the relocation of part of the staff of the workplace, not
they find the bulletin board sufficient to post the information.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

On the other hand, an adequate dissemination of the list is achieved through e-mail.
of electors and its review by interested parties is facilitated, as well as
the presentation of claims, with the ultimate goal of guaranteeing the exercise of their
right to vote in the elections called (arts. 15 and 27 Law 9/1987).

They see it as ideal for the purpose it pursues, due to its simplicity and ability to spread
between the recipients to whom the communication is directed; and, finally, proportional,
given that the impact on the rights of the complainant, as they allege, is identical or
very similar to the one produced by publishing the provisional list in the
job center bulletin board, since the categories of data involved and
Interested third parties with potential access to such information should be
essence, the same.

Despite this, as measures to be adopted to avoid the incident, they mention the
review of internal protocols on communication and/or publication of data from
personal character in the framework of the holding of trade union elections, focusing
in: categories of data involved; legal bases that confer legitimacy
(legal obligation, contractual relationship, consent, legitimate interest); means to
employ and basic security measures to implement during the treatment of
data (automated and non-automated media). They also propose actions
specific training courses for staff at the service of the trade union organization, with the
objective of raising awareness and providing the necessary knowledge for the treatment
of data not only of affiliates or sympathizers, but of other owners. The topics
would be: publication of listings on the bulletin board, union elections and sending of
electronic communications.

Despite everything, the defendant does not consider that he is committing an offence, although he does
They plan to review the internal protocols on this matter, as regards
to published data, legal bases and means to use (they should not have it very clearly, if
they will review the protocols).

THIRD: On September 1, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
pleadings in which, in summary, it stated the following:

“Regarding the categories of data processed, it should be noted that there are no
categories of specially protected data, or endowed with greater criticality,
corresponding only to basic types of information (name,
surnames, date of birth, national identity document and seniority).

On the other hand, the aforementioned categories of data, collected in the electoral census, are the
specified in art. 14.1 of RD 1846/1994, regulations for the development of the Law
9/1987, of June 12, of Representative Bodies, Determination of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

Working Conditions and Participation of Personnel in the Service of the
Public Administrations, regulations in charge of regulating the call for
elections to representative bodies in the field of public service.

In relation to the means used to communicate the electoral census data,
It should be noted that the use of electronic mail as a means of dissemination, although
could be considered by the personnel in charge of the shipment a useful and practical means
for the intended purpose (achieve adequate dissemination due to the
existing relocation), constitutes an isolated event, without said procedure
is provided for in the internal protocols of the claimed organization, nor
represents the usual channel of notification for this type of calls.

Prior to the transfer of this complaint, the trade union organization already
had drawn up a confidentiality agreement to make it available to the delegates of
the trade union sections of the affected region, which is attached to the letter of
allegations.

In addition, in order to avoid the repetition of behaviors of these characteristics,
As well as to prevent them, the following measures have been taken:

• Prepare and send a circular to union delegates and sections, reiterating the
GDPR principles and the guidelines to be respected in relation to data communication
personal as a result of calls for union elections.

• Include a specific section on this casuistry in the next training to
impart by the DPD before the end of this year (2020).”

FIFTH: On October 27, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigation actions, E/02282/2020, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SIXTH: On November 3, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the defendant be sanctioned with a sanction of warning, for the
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The trade union section of UNION SINDICAL OBRERA sends by
e-mail from the electoral roll of the claimant's place of work, such as
consequence of the union elections held on February 26, 2020.

SECOND: The respondent has adopted measures to avoid the repetition of behaviors
of these characteristics, as well as prevent them by preparing and sending a circular to
union delegates and sections, indicating the principles of the RGPD and the guidelines to
respect in relation to the communication of personal data as a result of calls

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

union elections, including a specific section on this casuistry in the
next training to be given by the DPD before the end of this year (2020).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the GDPR and
in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party (“lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
longer than necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; the
Personal data may be kept for longer periods provided that it is
processed exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1,
without prejudice to the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures that
This Regulation is imposed in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
interested party (“limitation of the retention period”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of
section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

III

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time,
considers that the known facts, that is, the sending by email of the
electoral census to "affiliates and sympathizers of the union itself", where the
following personal data: ID, name and surname, date of birth and date of
seniority in the center, supposes the violation of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs
the principles of integrity and confidentiality of personal data, as well as the
proactive responsibility of the controller to demonstrate its
compliance.

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;"

(...)

“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;"

Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD establishes that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

In turn, article 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious provides:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
two in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

This infraction could be sanctioned with a warning, in accordance with article
58.2.b) of the RGPD, when collecting through said form basic data of the
users and consider that the administrative fine that could fall in accordance with the
provided in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden
for the claimed, whose main activity is not directly linked to the
processing of personal data, since there is no record of the commission of any infringement
above regarding data protection.

v

On the other hand, article 83.7 of the RGPD provides that, without prejudice to the
corrective powers of the control authorities under art. 58, paragraph 2,
each Member State may lay down rules on whether and to what extent
impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established in
that Member State.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE UNIÓN SINDICAL OBRERA, with NIF G28567402, for a
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the WORKERS' UNION.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

