 

Cyber attacks on medical
prevent facilities

 

Bavarian data protection supervisory authorities
Best practice checklist ready

 

Press Release – Page 1/3
Munich, June 3rd, 2020

The current corona pandemic is urgently showing many people
how important a functioning healthcare system is. hospital
sers, medical practices and medical laboratories are challenged to
ensure niche supply for the population. Already a successful
However, a cyber attack can affect the functionality of a medical unit
direction for days or weeks - and in the worst
ten case even paralyze completely. Individual cases in the past have
shown again and again in recent years. To review your cybersecurity
security measures are provided by the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data
schutz (BayLfD) and the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
(BayLDA) therefore the medical facilities in Bavaria a best
Practice checklist available. Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri and Michael Will
underline: “When it comes to cybersecurity in our medical facilities,
It is not only about the special protection of patient data,
but also about the functionality of hospitals and medical practices
and laboratories in the overall structure of our healthcare system. each
defended attack is therefore a contribution to guaranteeing and strengthening
Health care in Bavaria.”

Internet attacks on the healthcare system

The time when in medical institutions patient data on the
were entered on the clipboard and filed offline in a paper file,
is long gone. From registration to treatment to discharge

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from June 3rd, 2020 – page 2/3
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
sungsbrief is now almost every step of the care at the doctor
and digitized in the hospital just like the analysis in a laboratory.
 
But what if patient data suddenly cannot be called up,
actions can only be initiated with difficulty or the modern CT
Device only shows a black screen? In this case, a cy-
Assault on the medical facility took place at the
an attacker can use the Internet to gradually break away from the patient registration
hacked into the internal network of a facility and all files
by a so-called ransomware, in which access to the patient
data only after paying an immensely high ransom
is made unusable.

Raise barriers to successful attacks

The statement that there is no 100% protection against cyberattacks
can give may be right. However, this does not mean that it is here at all
there is no protection or every attack attempt is always crowned with success
have to be. On the contrary: it is often possible with inexpensive protective measures
an effective and often decisive hurdle can be created,
if the medical institution knows which attack paths are currently
ell be used and as doors for quick criminal success
can be tightly closed.

Concrete help through a checklist

So that medical facilities – from doctors to laboratories to
Hospitals - the effectiveness of their cyber security measures
can easily check, have the Bavarian State Commissioner for the
Data Protection (BayLfD) and the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection
(BayLDA) developed a best practice checklist. In form of
usable by those responsible and their data protection officers
Questionnaire enables the checklist to be used by medical institutions
an inventory of measures and processes to ensure
the availability of personal data with a view to possible
cyber attacks. The checklist is therefore an important building block in the
joint Bavarian prevention work against attacks from within
ternet on the Bavarian healthcare system.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from June 3rd, 2020 – page 3/3
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
The checklist can be downloaded free of charge from www.datenschutz-
bayern.de/best_practice_medizin and at
 
www.lda.bayern.de/best_practice_medizin.

The two Bavarian data protection supervisory authorities are thus setting the
for a long time, also under the General Data Protection Regulation
planning to continue on the path we have taken, above all by providing early advice
Bavarian public and non-public bodies specific assistance
to offer lungs.

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri
The Bavarian State
commissioned for data protection
 

Michael Will
President of the Bavarian
State Office for Data Protection Supervision

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
authorities ensure compliance with data protection regulations. He is from the Bavarian state parliament
elected, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

