 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Guidelines 8/2022 on identifying a controller or processor’s 

lead supervisory authority 

 

Version 2.0  

 

 

Adopted on 28 March 2023 
 

Version history 
Version 1.0 

10 October 2022 

Version 2.0 

28 March 2023 

 

Adoption  of  the  Guidelines  (updated  version  of  the 
previous guidelines WP244 rev.01 adopted by the Working 
Party 29 and endorsed by the EDPB on 25 May 2018) for a 
targeted public consultation. 
Adoption of the Guidelines after public consultation 

 

 

2 

Adopted 

 

 
Table of contents 
0 
1 

1.1 

1.1.1 

Preface ..........................................................................................................................4 
Identifying a lead supervisory authority: the key concepts ....................................................5 
‘Cross-border processing of personal data’...................................................................5 
‘Substantially affects’ .........................................................................................5 
1.2 
Lead supervisory authority ........................................................................................6 
1.3  Main establishment ..................................................................................................6 
Steps to identify the lead supervisory authority ...................................................................7 
Identify the ‘main establishment’ for controllers...........................................................7 

2.1 

2 

2.2 
2.3 

Criteria for identifying a controller’s main establishment in cases where it is not the 

2.1.1 
place of its central administration in the EEA.......................................................................8 
2.1.2 
Groups of undertakings ......................................................................................9 
Joint controllers ................................................................................................9 
2.1.3 
Borderline cases..................................................................................................... 10 
Processor .............................................................................................................. 11 
3  Other relevant issues ..................................................................................................... 11 
The role of the ’supervisory authority concerned’ ....................................................... 11 
Local processing ..................................................................................................... 12 
Companies not established within the EU .................................................................. 12 
ANNEX - Questions to guide the identification of the lead supervisory authority ........................... 13 
1 
Is the controller or processor carrying out the cross-border processing of personal data? .... 13 
2  How to identify the ‘lead supervisory authority’ ............................................................. 13 
Are there any ‘concerned supervisory authorities’? ........................................................ 14 
3 

3.1 
3.2 
3.3 

 

 

 

Adopted  

 

3 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70(1)(e) and (l) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing 
of  personal  data  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data, and  repealing  Directive  95/46/EC, 
(hereinafter “GDPR”), 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 

Having regard to the Article 29 Working Party Guidelines for identifying a controller or processor’s lead 
supervisory authority, WP244 rev.01, 

Having regard to the EDPB Guidelines  07/2020 on  the concepts of controller and processor in the 
GDPR, 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES 

0  PREFACE 

1. 

2. 

3. 

On 5 April 2017, the Article 29 Working Party adopted its Guidelines  for identifying a controller or 
processor’s lead supervisory authority (WP244 rev.01)2, which were endorsed by the European Data 
Protection Board (hereinafter “EDPB”) at its first Plenary meeting 3. This document is a slightly updated 
version  of  those  guidelines. Any  reference to the WP29  Guidelines  for  identifying  a controller or 
processor’s  lead supervisory  authority (WP244  rev.01) should,  from  now  on, be  interpreted as a 
reference to these EDPB guidelines. 
The EDPB has noticed that there was a need for further clarifications, specifically regarding the notion 
of  main  establishment  in  the  context  of  joint  controllership  and  taking  into  account  the  EDPB 
Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR 4. 
The paragraph concerning this matter has been revised and updated, while the rest of the document 
was left unchanged, except for  editorial changes. The revision concerns, more specifically,  Section 
2.1.3 on joint controllers. 

                                                             
1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 Available at http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=611235. 
3 See https://edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2018/endorsement-gdpr-wp29-guidelines-edpb_en. 
4 See Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR, version 2.0 adopted on 7 July 
2021,  paragraphs  161,  162  and  166,  available  at  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/guidelines/guidelines-072020-concepts-controller-and-processor-gdpr_en 

Adopted  

 

4 

 

1 

IDENTIFYING A LEAD SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY: THE KEY CONCEPTS 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

‘Cross-border processing of personal data’ 

1.1 
Identifying a lead supervisory authority is only relevant where a controller or processor is carrying out 
the cross-border processing of personal data. Article 4(23) GDPR defines ‘cross-border processing’ as 
either the:  

-  processing of personal data which takes place in the context of the activities of establishments 
in more than one Member State of a controller or processor in the Union where the controller or 
processor is established in more than one Member State; or the 

-  processing  of  personal  data  which  takes  place  in  the  context  of  the  activities  of  a  single 
establishment of a controller or processor in the Union but which substantially affects or is likely 
to substantially affect data subjects in more than one Member State. 

This means that where an organisation has establishments in France and Romania, for example, and 
the processing of personal data takes place in the context of their activities, then this will constitute 
cross-border processing.  
Alternatively, the organisation may only carry out processing activity in the context of its establishment 
in  France. However, if  the activity substantially  affects – or is  likely  to substantially  affect – data 
subjects in France and Romania then this will also constitute cross-border processing.   

‘Substantially affects’ 

1.1.1 
The GDPR does not define ‘substantially’ or ‘affects’. The intention of the wording was to ensure that 
not  all  processing  activity, with  any  effect  and  that  takes  place  within  the  context  of  a  single 
establishment, falls within the definition of ‘cross-border processing’.  
The most relevant ordinary English meanings of ‘substantial’ include: ‘of ample or considerable amount 
or  size; sizeable, fairly  large’, or  ‘having solid  worth or  value, of  real significance; solid;  weighty, 
important’ 5.  
The most relevant meaning of the verb ‘affect’ is ‘to influence’ or ‘to make a material impression on’. 
The related noun -‘effect’- means, amongst other things, ‘a result’ or ‘a consequence’ 6. This suggests 
that for data processing to affect someone it must have some form of impact on them. Processing that 
does not have a substantial effect on individuals does not fall within the second part of the definition 
of ‘cross-border processing’. However, it would fall within the first part of the definition where the 
processing of personal data takes place in the context of the activities of establishments in more than 
one Member State of  a controller or processor in  the Union, where the controller or processor is 
established in more than one Member State. 

10.  Processing  can be brought within  the second  part of  the definition  if  there is  the likelihood  of a 
substantial effect, not just an actual substantial effect. Note that ‘likely to’ does not mean that there 
is a remote possibility of a substantial effect. The substantial effect must be more likely than not. On 
the other hand, it also means that individuals do not have to be actually affected: the likelihood of a 
substantial effect is sufficient to bring the processing within the definition of ‘cross-border processing’.  

                                                             
5 Oxford English Dictionary. 
6 Oxford English Dictionary. 

Adopted  

 

5 

 

11. 

12. 

The fact that a data processing operation may involve  the processing  of a number  – even a large 
number – of individuals’ personal data, in a number of Member States, does not necessarily mean that 
the processing has, or is likely to have, a substantial effect. Processing that does not have a substantial 
effect  does  not  constitute  cross-border  processing  for  the  purposes  of  the  second  part  of  the 
definition, regardless of how many individuals it affects.  
Supervisory Authorities will interpret ‘substantially affects’ on a case by case basis. We will take into 
account the context of the processing, the type of data, the purpose of the processing and factors such 
as whether the processing: 

o  causes, or is likely to cause, damage, loss or distress to individuals; 
o  has, or is likely to have, an actual effect in terms of limiting rights or denying an opportunity; 
o  affects, or is likely to affect individuals’ health, well-being or peace of mind; 
o  affects, or is likely to affect, individuals’ financial or economic status or circumstances; 
o  leaves individuals open to discrimination or unfair treatment; 
o  involves the analysis of the special categories of personal or other intrusive data, particularly the 

personal data of children; 

o  causes, or is likely to cause individuals to change their behaviour in a significant way; 
o  has unlikely, unanticipated or unwanted consequences for individuals;  
o  creates embarrassment or other negative outcomes, including reputational damage; or 
o  involves the processing of a wide range of personal data. 

13.  Ultimately, the test of ‘substantial effect’ is intended to ensure that supervisory authorities are only 
required to co-operate formally through the GDPR’s consistency  mechanism "where a  supervisory 
authority  intends  to  adopt  a  measure  intended  to  produce  legal  effects  as  regards  processing 
operations which substantially affect a significant number of data subjects in several Member States”7. 

1.2  Lead supervisory authority 

14.  Put simply, a ‘lead supervisory authority’ is the authority with the primary responsibility  for dealing 
with a cross-border data processing activity, for example when a data subject makes a complaint about 
the processing of his or her personal data. 
The  lead  supervisory  authority  will  coordinate  any  investigation,  involving  other  ‘concerned’ 
supervisory authorities.  

15. 

16. 

Identifying the lead supervisory  authority depends  on  determining the location of  the controller’s 
‘main establishment’ or ‘single establishment’ in the EU. Article 56 GDPR says that: 

-  the  supervisory  authority  of  the  main  establishment  or  of  the  single  establishment  of  the 
controller or processor shall  be competent to act  as  lead supervisory  authority for  the  cross-
border  processing  carried  out  by  that  controller  or  processor  in  accordance  with  the 
[cooperation] procedure provided in Article 60. 

1.3  Main establishment 

17.  Article 4(16) GDPR states that ‘main establishment’ means:  

                                                             
7 See Recital 135 GDPR. 

Adopted  

 

6 

 

-  as  regards a  controller with establishments  in  more than one Member State, the place  of its 
central administration  in the Union, unless  the decisions on  the purposes and means of  the 
processing of personal data are taken in another establishment of the controller in the Union and 
the latter establishment has the power to have such decisions implemented, in which case the 
establishment having taken such decisions is to be considered to be the main establishment;  

-  as  regards a  processor with establishments  in more than  one Member State, the place  of  its 
central administration  in  the Union, or, if  the processor has  no  central administration  in  the 
Union, the establishment of the processor in the Union where the main processing activities in 
the context of the activities of an establishment of the processor take place to the extent that 
the processor is subject to specific obligations under this Regulation; 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

2  STEPS TO IDENTIFY THE LEAD SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 

Identify the ‘main establishment’ for controllers 

2.1 
In order to establish where the main establishment is, it is  firstly necessary to identify  the central 
administration of the controller in the EEA, if any. The approach implied in the GDPR is that the central 
administration in the EU is the place where decisions about the purposes and means of the processing 
of personal data are taken, and this place has the power to have such decisions implemented. 
The essence of the lead supervisory  authority principle in the GDPR is that the supervision  of cross-
border processing should be led by only one supervisory authority in the EU. In cases where decisions 
relating to different cross-border processing activities are taken within the EU central administration, 
there will be a single lead supervisory authority for the various data processing activities carried out 
by the multinational company. However, there may be cases where an establishment other than the 
place of central administration makes autonomous decisions concerning the purposes and means of a 
specific  processing  activity. This  means  that there can  be  situations  where more  than  one  lead 
supervisory authority can be identified, i.e. in cases where a multinational company decides to have 
separate decision-making centres, in different countries, for different processing activities.   
It is worth recalling, that where a multinational company centralises all the decisions  relating to the 
purposes  and  means  of  processing  activities  in  one  of  its  establishments  in  the  EEA  (and  that 
establishment has the power to implement such decisions), only one lead supervisory authority will be 
identified for the multinational.  
In these situations, it will be essential  for companies to identify  precisely  where the decisions  on 
purpose and means of processing are taken. Correct identification of the main establishment is in the 
interests  of  controllers  and  processors  because  it  provides  clarity in  terms  of  which  supervisory 
authority they have to deal with in respect of their various compliance duties under the GDPR. These 
may include, where relevant, designating a data protection officer or consulting for a risky processing 
activity that the controller cannot mitigate by reasonable means. The relevant provisions of the GDPR 
are intended to make these compliance tasks manageable.  
The examples below illustrate this: 

Example 1: A food retailer has its headquarters (i.e., its ‘place of central administration’) in Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. It has establishments in various other EEA countries, which are in contact with individuals 
there. All establishments make use of  the same software to process  consumers’ personal data for 
marketing purposes. All the decisions about the purposes and means of the processing of consumers’ 
personal data for marketing purposes are taken within its Rotterdam headquarters. This means that 

Adopted  

 

7 

 

the  company’s  lead  supervisory  authority  for  this  cross-border  processing  activity  is  the  Dutch 
supervisory authority.  
Example 2: A bank has its corporate headquarters in Frankfurt, and all8 its banking processing activities 
are organised from there, but its insurance department is located in Vienna. If the establishment in 
Vienna has the power to decide on all insurance data processing activities and to implement these 
decisions for the whole EEA, then, as foreseen in Article 4(16) GDPR, the Austrian supervisory authority 
would be the lead supervisory authority in respect of the cross-border processing of personal data for 
insurance purposes, and the competent German supervisory  authority (i.e., the Hessen supervisory 
authority) would supervise the processing of personal data for banking purposes, wherever the clients 
are located9. 

2.1.1  Criteria  for  identifying  a controller’s  main establishment in cases where  it is not the 

place of its central administration in the EEA 

23.  Recital 36 GDPR is useful in clarifying the main factor that shall be used to determine a controller’s 
main  establishment  if  the  criterion  of  the  central  administration  does  not  apply.  This  involves 
identifying where the effective and real exercise of management activities, that determine the main 
decisions  as to the purposes  and means  of  processing through  stable arrangements, takes place. 
Recital 36 GDPR also  clarifies that “the presence and  use  of  technical means  and  technologies  for 
processing personal data or processing activities do not, in themselves, constitute a main establishment 
and are therefore not determining criteria for a main establishment”.  
The  controller  itself  identifies  where  its  main  establishment  is  and  therefore  which  supervisory 
authority  is  its  lead  supervisory  authority.  However,  this  can  be  challenged  by  the  respective 
supervisory authority concerned afterwards.   
The  factors  below  are  useful  for  determining  the  location  of  a controller’s  main  establishment, 
according to the terms of the GDPR, in cases where it is not the location of its central administration 
in the EEA.  

24. 

25. 

o  Where are decisions about the purposes and means of the processing given final ‘sign off’? 
o  Where are decisions about business activities that involve data processing made? 
o  Where does the power to have decisions implemented effectively lie? 
o  Where is the Director (or Directors) with overall management responsibility for the cross-border 

processing located? 

o  Where is the controller or processor registered as a company, if in a single territory? 

26.  Note that this is not an exhaustive list. Other factors may be relevant depending on the controller or 
processing activity in question. If a supervisory authority has reasons to doubt that the establishment 
                                                             
8 In the context of processing personal data for banking purposes, the EDPB recognises that there are many 
different purposes pursued by these processing activities. However, to simplify matters, the EDPB addresses all 
of them as a single purpose. The same is true of processing done for insurance purposes. 
9 It should be recalled also that the GDPR provides for the possibility of local oversight in specific cases. See 
Recital 127: “Each supervisory authority not acting as the lead supervisory authority should be competent to 
handle local cases where the controller or processor is established in more than one Member State, but the 
subject matter of the specific processing concerns only processing carried out in a single Member State and 
involves only data subjects in that single Member State, for example, where the subject matter concerns the 
processing of employees' personal data in the specific employment context of a Member State.” This principle 
means that the  supervision of HR  data connected to the  local employment context could fall on several 
supervisory authorities. 

Adopted  

 

8 

 

identified by the controller is in reality the main establishment for the purposes of the GDPR, it can – 
of course – require the controller to provide the additional information necessary for it to prove where 
its main establishment is located.  

2.1.2  Groups of undertakings 

27.  Where processing is carried out by a group of undertakings that has its headquarters in the EEA, the 
establishment of the undertaking with overall control is presumed to be the decision-making centre 
relating  to  the  processing  of  personal  data,  and  will  therefore  be  considered  to  be  the  main 
establishment for the group, except where decisions about the purposes and means of processing are 
taken by another establishment. The parent, or operational headquarters of the group of undertakings 
in the  EEA, is  likely to be the main establishment, because that would  be the place of  its central 
administration.  
The reference in the definition to the place of  a controller’s central administration works well for 
organisations that have a centralised decision-making headquarters and branch-type structure. In such 
cases, it is clear that the power to make decisions about cross-border processing, and to have them 
carried out, lies within the company’s headquarters. In such cases, determining the location of the 
main establishment - and therefore which supervisory authority is the lead supervisory authority - is 
straightforward. However, the decision system of group of companies could be more complex, giving 
independent  making  powers  relating to  cross-border  processing  to different  establishments.  The 
criteria set out above should help groups of undertakings to identify their main establishment.  

28. 

29. 

Joint controllers 

2.1.3 
The GDPR does not specifically deal with the issue of designating a lead supervisory authority where 
two or more controllers established in the EEA jointly determine the purposes and means of processing 
- i.e. joint controllers. Article 26(1)  and Recital 79 GDPR make it clear that in joint  controllership 
situations, the controllers shall in a transparent manner determine their respective responsibilities for 
compliance with their obligations under the GDPR. 

31. 

30.  As recalled by the EDPB in its Guidelines on the concept of controller and processor10, joint controllers 
need to set “who does what” by deciding between themselves who will have to carry out which tasks, 
in order to make sure that the processing complies with the applicable obligations under the GDPR in 
relation to the joint processing at stake.  
The compliance measures and related obligations joint controllers should consider when determining 
their respective responsibilities, in addition to those specifically referred in Article 26(1) GDPR, include, 
amongst others, the organisation of contact with data subjects and supervisory authorities. 
It should  be recalled that supervisory  authorities are not bound  by the terms of such arrangement, 
neither on the issue of the qualification of the parties as joint controllers nor on the designated contact 
point 11. 

32. 

33.  Moreover, the decision-making power of joint controllers does not comprise the determination of the 
competent  supervisory  authority  according  to  Articles  55  and  56  GDPR, or  the  ability  of  these 
supervisory authorities to exercise their tasks and powers as described in Articles 57 and 58 GDPR. 

                                                             
10 See Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR, paragraphs 161, 162 and 
166. 
11 See Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR, paragraph 191. 

Adopted  

 

9 

 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

The notion of main establishment is linked by virtue of the GDPR to a single controller and cannot be 
extended to a joint controllership situation. This is without prejudice to the possibility  for each joint 
controller to have its own main establishment. In other words, the main establishment of a controller 
cannot be considered as the main establishment of the joint controllers for the processing carried out 
under their joint control. Therefore, joint controllers cannot  designate (among the establishments 
where  decisions  on  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing  are  taken)  a  common  main 
establishment for both joint controllers. 

2.2  Borderline cases  
There will be borderline and complex situations where it is difficult to identify the main establishment 
or to determine where decisions about data processing are taken. This might be the case where there 
is cross-border processing activity and the controller is established in several Member States, but there 
is no central administration in the EEA and none of the EEA establishments are taking decisions about 
the processing (i.e. decisions are taken exclusively outside of the EEA). 
In the case above, the company carrying out cross-border processing may be keen to be regulated by 
a lead supervisory authority to benefit from the one-stop-shop principle. However, the GDPR does not 
provide a solution for situations like this. In these circumstances, the company should designate the 
establishment that has the authority to implement decisions about the processing activity and to take 
liability for the processing, including having sufficient assets, as its main establishment. If the company 
does  not  designate a main establishment  in  this  way, it  will not  be  possible  to designate a lead 
supervisory authority. Supervisory authorities will always be able to investigate further where this is 
appropriate. 
The GDPR does not permit ‘forum shopping’. If a company claims to have its main establishment in 
one Member State, but no effective and real exercise of management activity or decision-making over 
the processing of personal data takes place there, the relevant supervisory authorities (or ultimately 
the EDPB 12) will decide which supervisory authority is the ‘lead’, using objective criteria and looking at 
the evidence. The process of determining where the main establishment is may require active inquiry 
and co-operation by the supervisory authorities. Conclusions  cannot be based solely on statements by 
the organisation under review. The burden of proof ultimately falls on controllers and processors to 
demonstrate to the relevant supervisory authorities where the relevant processing decisions are taken 
and where there is the power to implement such decisions. Effective records of data processing activity 
would  help  both  organisations  and  supervisory  authorities  to  determine  the  lead  supervisory 
authority.  The  lead  supervisory  authority,  or  concerned  supervisory  authorities,  can  rebut  the 
controller’s  analysis  based  on  an  objective  examination of  the relevant  facts, requesting further 
information where required. 
In some cases, the relevant supervisory authorities will ask the controller to provide clear evidence, in 
line with any EDPB guidelines, of where its main establishment is, or where decisions about a particular 
data processing  activity  are  taken. This  evidence  will  be  given  due  weight  and  the  supervisory 
authorities involved will co-operate to decide which one of them will take the lead in investigations. 
Such  cases  will  only  be  referred to  the  EDPB for  a decision  under  Article 65(1)(b)  GDPR where 
supervisory  authorities have conflicting views in terms of identifying the lead supervisory  authority. 
However, in most cases, the EDPB expects that the relevant supervisory  authorities will be able to 
agree a mutually satisfactory course of action.  

                                                             
12 See paragraph 35 below. 

Adopted  

 

10 

 

39. 

2.3  Processor  
The GDPR also offers the one-stop-shop  system for the benefit of processors that are subject to GDPR 
and have establishments in more than one Member State. 

40.  Article 4(16)(b) GDPR states that the processor’s main establishment will be the place of the central 
administration of  the processor  in  the EU or, if  there is  no  central administration in  the EU, the 
establishment in the EU where the main processing (processor) activities take place. 

41.  However, according to Recital 36 GDPR, in cases involving both  a controller and  a processor, the 
competent lead supervisory  authority should  be the lead supervisory authority for the controller. In 
this situation, the supervisory authority of the processor will be a ‘supervisory authority concerned’ 
and should participate in the cooperation procedure. This rule will only apply where the controller is 
established in the EEA. In cases where controllers are subject to the GDPR on the basis of its Article 
3(2), they will not be subject to the one-stop-shop mechanism. A processor - for example, a large cloud-
service provider - may provide services to multiple controllers located in different Member States. In 
such cases, the lead supervisory authority will be the supervisory authority that is competent to act as 
lead for the controller. In effect, this means a processor may have to deal with multiple supervisory 
authorities.  

3  OTHER RELEVANT ISSUES 

3.1  The role of the ’supervisory authority concerned’ 

42.  GDPR Article 4(22) says that the:  

‘supervisory  authority  concerned’  means  a  supervisory  authority  which  is  concerned  by  the 
processing of personal data because: (a) the controller or processor is established on the territory 
of the Member State of that supervisory authority; (b) data subjects residing in the Member State 
of that supervisory authority are substantially affected or likely to be substantially affected by the 
processing; or (c) a complaint has been lodged with that supervisory authority.’ 

43. 

The concept  of  a concerned  supervisory  authority  is  meant to ensure  that the  ‘lead  supervisory 
authority’ model does not prevent other supervisory authorities having a say in how a matter is dealt 
with when, for example, individuals  residing outside the lead supervisory authority’s jurisdiction are 
substantially  affected  by  a  data  processing  activity.  In  terms  of  factor  (a)  above,  the  same 
considerations as for identifying a lead supervisory authority apply. Note that in (b) the data subject 
must merely reside in the Member State in question; they do not have to be a citizen of that State. It 
will generally be easy in  (c) to determine -  as a matter of  fact - whether a particular supervisory 
authority has received a complaint.    

44.  Article 56, paragraphs (2) and (5) GDPR provide for a concerned supervisory authority to take a role in 
dealing with a case without being the lead supervisory authority. When a lead supervisory authority 
decides not to handle a case, the concerned supervisory authority that informed the lead supervisory 
authority shall handle it. This is in accordance with the procedures in Article 61 (Mutual assistance) 
and Article 62 (Joint  operations of supervisory  authorities) GDPR. This might be the case where a 
marketing company with its main establishment in Paris launches a product that only  affects data 
subjects residing in Portugal. In such a case, the French and Portuguese supervisory authorities might 
agree that it is appropriate for the Portuguese supervisory authority to take the lead in dealing with 
the matter. Supervisory authorities may request that controllers provide input in terms of clarifying 
their corporate arrangements. Given that the processing  activity has a purely local effect -  i.e. on 

Adopted  

 

11 

 

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

individuals  in Portugal -  the French  and Portuguese supervisory  authorities have the discretion to 
decide which supervisory authority should deal with the matter - in accordance with Recital 127 GDPR. 
The GDPR requires lead and concerned supervisory  authorities to co-operate, with due respect for 
each other’s views, to ensure a matter is investigated and resolved to each authority’s satisfaction - 
and with an effective remedy for data subjects. Supervisory authorities should endeavour to reach a 
mutually acceptable course  of  action. The formal  consistency  mechanism should  only  be  invoked 
where co-operation does not reach a mutually acceptable outcome.   
The mutual acceptance of decisions can apply to substantive conclusions,  but also to the course of 
action decided upon, including enforcement activity (e.g. full investigation or an investigation with 
limited scope). It can also apply to a decision not to handle a case in accordance with the GDPR, for 
example because of a formal policy of prioritisation, or because there are other concerned authorities 
as described above.  
The development  of  consensus  and  good will  between supervisory  authorities is  essential  to the 
success of the GDPR’s cooperation and consistency procedures. 

3.2  Local processing 
Local data processing activity does not fall within the GDPR’s cooperation and consistency provisions. 
Supervisory authorities will respect each other’s competence to deal with local data processing activity 
on a local basis. Processing carried out by public authorities will always be dealt with on a ‘local’ basis, 
too.  

3.3  Companies not established within the EEA 
The GDPR’s cooperation and consistency mechanisms only apply to controllers with an establishment, 
or establishments, within the EEA. If a company does not have an establishment in the EEA, the mere 
presence of a representative in a Member State does not trigger the one-stop-shop  principle. This 
means  that controllers  without  any  establishment  in  the  EEA  must  deal  with  local  supervisory 
authorities in every Member State they are active in, through their local representative.  

For the European Data Protection Board 
The Chair 
 
(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

 

Adopted  

 

12 

 

ANNEX  -  QUESTIONS  TO  GUIDE  THE  IDENTIFICATION  OF  THE  LEAD 
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 

1 

a. 

Is the controller or processor carrying out the cross-border processing of personal 
data? 
Yes, if: 
•  The controller or processor is established in more than one Member State, and  
•  The processing of personal data takes place in the context of the activities of establishments 

in more than one Member State. 

  In this case, go to section 2.  

b. 

Yes, if: 
•  The processing of personal data takes place in the context of the activities of a controller 

or processor’s single establishment in the EEA, but: 

•  Substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect individuals in more than one Member 

State.  

  In this case, the lead supervisory authority is the authority for the controller or processor’s single 
establishment in a single Member State. This is - by logic - the controller or processor’s main 
establishment because it is its only establishment.  
 

How to identify the ‘lead supervisory authority’ 
In a case involving only a controller:  
Identify the controller’s place of central administration in the EEA;  

2 
a. 
i. 
ii.  The supervisory authority of the country where the place of central administration is located is 

the controller’s lead supervisory authority.  

However:  
iii. 

If decisions on the purposes and means of the processing are taken in another establishment in 
the EEA, and that establishment has the power to implement those decisions, then the lead 
supervisory authority is the one located in the country where this establishment is. 

b. 
i. 
ii. 

In a case involving a controller and a processor: 
Check if the controller is established in the EEA and subject to the one-stop-shop  system If so, 
Identify the lead supervisory  authority of  the controller. This authority will also be the lead 
supervisory authority for the processor. 

iii.  The  (non-lead)  supervisory  authority  competent  for  the  processor  will  be  a  ‘concerned 

supervisory authority’ - see section 3 below. 

c. 
i. 

In a case involving only a processor: 
Identify the processor’s place of central administration in the EEA; 

Adopted  

 

13 

 

ii. 

If the processor has no central administration in the EEA, identify the establishment in the EEA 
where the main processing activities of the processor take place. 

d. 
i. 
ii.  

In a case involving joint controllers: 
Check if the joint controllers are established in the EEA. 
Identify the place of central administration in the EEA for each joint controller respectively 
(where applicable);  

iii.   The supervisory authority of the country where the place of central administration is located is 

the lead supervisory authority of the respective joint controller. 

  

Are there any ‘concerned supervisory authorities’? 

3 
An authority is a ‘concerned authority’: 

•  When the controller or processor has an establishment on its territory, or: 
•  When  data subjects  on  its territory are substantially  affected or likely  to be substantially 

affected by the processing, or: 

•  When a complaint is received by a particular supervisory authority. 

Adopted  

 

14 

