"Change Your Password Day" on February 1st

Also this year emphasizes the Bavarian State Commissioner for the
Privacy the importance of choosing secure passwords and gives
tips on this

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, January 31, 2019

February 1st is Change Your Password Day again.

For many years, "stolen" access data has been
published or sold for accounts. In many cases it will
facilitated by insufficiently secure passwords. That also shows
most recent publication of data, for example from politicians and journalists
listen. Nevertheless - as in the previous year - the sequence of numbers "123456"
the list of the most popular German passwords created by the Hasso
Plattner Institute is published each year.

Petri: "Just imagine what it means for you personally
would mean if your data was insecure, easily damaged
passwords fall into the wrong hands. As a result, can also
sensitive data may be affected, such as bank details
or private chat content. Well-chosen passwords are a building block
which you can contribute to the protection of your data. I encourage you-
Please use the "Change your password tag" to change your access data
to make it safer. Protecting your privacy is worth a little
time to invest.”

What you should pay particular attention to when choosing passwords:

•

Use passwords with at least eight characters. To use
Please also use upper and lower case letters, digits and special
sign.

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from January 31, 2019 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
•
 

Avoid passwords that are directly related to you, such as
the name of family members or a pet.

 
•

•

•

•

•

Avoid passwords that consist of characters that are on the
keyboard next to each other (e.g. "123456" or
"QWERTZ").

Avoid (pass)words that are in the dictionary or in another
dictionary are listed.

Do not use the same password for different services.

Change default passwords.

Reduce the security of the password you choose
not with a simple answer to a security question that
Allows password reset. Do not use any in-
information that is easy to guess or otherwise research
are, such as names of family members.

Use the two-
factor authentication. This usually means that next to the
Password is another independent factor required to login.
This can be a further authentication via an SMS
transmitted PIN or possession of an object such as a security
trade health tokens.

If you have additional accounts for credential reset
use, protect them with strong passwords as well.

Delete accounts and all data on Internet services that you
no longer need.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri
 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

