Press release of the TLfDI

 

 

BDSG celebrates its 45th anniversary:

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and the

Freedom of Information (BfDI) Professor Ulrich Kelber recalls

45th anniversary of the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG).

Achievements in protecting the fundamental right to informational

Self-determination: “Especially during the last year

we observe that data protection laws are even more so in the

prove crisis."

 

 

 

Erfurt, June 15, 2021

 
The Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information

(TLfDI), Dr. Lutz Hasse, hereby informs you about the press release of the

Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information of June 10th

2021:

 

"The BfDI explains that the basic idea of the BDSG has not changed: "Everyone

of us has secrets. It doesn't matter whether it's about lifestyle, health or

communication works. Even when the Bundestag on June 10, 1976

Federal Data Protection Act passed, it was about the citizens

Protecting citizens from misuse of their personal data. to social

Networks, state trojans and biometric video surveillance probably have them

few MPs thought. The challenges for the BDSG are growing

further every year.”

 

The third version of the BDSG was passed in 2017. This became necessary

to comply with the law with the European data protection law that has been in force since 2018

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
Fax: 0361 57 3112904
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

 
 
to harmonize the General Regulation (GDPR). It supplements and clarifies the GDPR

where national regulations are left to the EU states. These include the

For example, the processing of employee data or the ordering of

Data Protection Officer. A scheduled evaluation of the law is currently taking place

held to make further adjustments. The BfDI therefore comments on the anniversary

of the law a wish: "It would be nice if the government and parliament

Future adjustments to the BDSG demonstrate just as much foresight as the

Bundestag did in 1976. The pandemic will not be the last crisis in which it

what matters is protecting citizens from those who want theirs

want to misuse secrets.”

 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

 

