1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00098/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), filed with this Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) on 08/13/2018 a claim against
to the General Directorate of the Civil Guard, with NIF S2816003D (hereinafter, the
claimed).

The claim is based on an alleged breach of the obligation to
inform the people from whom data is collected in the terms provided by the
regulations governing the right to the protection of personal data.

On 08/10/2018, the claimant went with his minor daughter to the post of the
Civil Guard of ***LOCALIDAD.1 (Valencia) to process an exit authorization
abroad of the minor, for which he provided his personal data by completing a
form and exhibited the respective identity documents, of which the agent
obtained two photocopies. He explains that neither orally by the agent who assisted them, nor
In the official document that they gave him authorizing the trip, they were informed about the
treatment of your personal data or about the destination that they would give to the photocopies that
obtained from their identity documents.

Contribute with your claim:

-

The copy of an official document with the anagrams of the Ministry of the Interior and
of the Civil Guard called "Signed declaration of travel permit for
minors or persons with judicially modified capacity”. In the
document shows the date and time of the appearance before the post of the
Civil Guard; the data of the minor (name, two surnames, DNI, date and place
of birth and domicile); the data of the claimant and the data of the former
spouse of the claimant and mother of the minor (also name, two surnames,
DNI, date and place of birth and address). Trip information included.
(country and locality of destination, date and name of the companion). It is signed
by the claimant and by the mother of the minor and incorporates the stamp of the
Civil Guard Command.

- Copy of the claimant's DNI.
- Copy of the complaint that the claimant filed for these facts before the
Ministry of the Interior: the official form and an additional document in which
Gives a detailed account of what happened. Both bear a stamp
official. The date of entry in the Civil Guard registry is 08/13/2018.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim, the AEPD, in the
framework of file E/6887/2018, in a letter dated 10/04/2018, notified
her to the Data Protection Delegate (DPD) of the Ministry of the Interior so that in
Within one month, it will provide this Agency with an explanation of the purpose of the
claim, it will detail the measures adopted to avoid that in the future
producing similar situations and also proceeded to communicate its decision to the
claimant.

Likewise, in a document signed on 10/04/2018, the AEPD addressed the claimant
acknowledging receipt of the claim and informed him that his brief had been transferred to
the one claimed so that within a month it could inform this Agency of the
actions carried out to adapt to data protection regulations

On 12/07/2018, the response of the DPD of

the Civil Guard to the information request in which it stated the following:

That the facts that motivate the claim are essentially “the lack of
update of the base application document” and “the procedural error of the
processor”. The measures adopted have been the implementation of a document
updated and the training and awareness of the processors. In this sense, it states:
a) That the data controller, INTPOL, has been urged to, within the
sooner have the model updated with the appropriate information and that it is being
developing a model that will soon be mandatory.

b) That the data controller, INTPOL, has been urged to carry out
effect the necessary actions to ensure that those who have to manage this
type of documents is aware of the procedure and specifically of the non
need to provide photocopies of the documents, which should only be shown to
purpose of verifying identity.

It adds that it has informed the claimant that it has verified that “within the
document updating process that is being carried out after the entry into force
of the General Data Protection Regulation, said certification model has not yet
has been updated, lacking the mandatory information,” . It has also
informed that it has been verified that, “due to an error of interpretation on the part of
of the processing Civil Guard, at first photocopies of the
personal documentation attached by the applicants, which were destroyed with
later when it was verified that they were unnecessary, requesting
We apologize for these inconveniences that in no case have prevented or hindered the
departure of his daughter abroad.

Provide as an attached document a copy of the letter sent to the claimant, with
date of departure from that General Directorate on 11/19/2018, in which he acknowledges receipt of the
claim filed with the AEPD; informs you that, indeed, the document
used had not been updated after the entry into force of the RGPD; regrets it
occurred, which is due, he says, to the large amount of documentation and models to
update and informs you that this fact was caused by an interpretive error
of the civil guard who attended him, who mistakenly understood that he had to make a
copy of the identity documents provided when he had only to verify the
data provided. After which, he adds that "once the error was verified, the photocopies were
removed by paper shredder. It also provides a document from the S.E.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

Post and Telegraph, S.A.E. that accredits the certified delivery of the letter to the claimant.

On 02/15/2019, in accordance with the provisions of article 65 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, on data protection and guarantee of digital rights
(LOPDGDD) agreed to admit the claim for processing.

THIRD: On 05/27/2019 the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the one claimed by the
alleged infringement of article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, General of
Data Protection (RGPD) sanctioned in article 83.5.b)

FOURTH: The agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure was notified
electronically to the claimed one as evidenced by the document of the Folder
Citizen in which it is stated that the AEPD sent the notification on 05/30/2019 and that the
recipient accessed it on 06/04/2019.

FIFTH: Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure
of the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

"two. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

(..)
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in the event
of not making allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the resolution of
initiation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a
precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility.”

In application of the transcribed precept (article 64.2.f, LPACAP) and taking into account
that the respondent has not made allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate
resolve the sanctioning procedure PS /98/2019.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding and of the

documentation contained in it, the following have been accredited

FACTS

1.- The claimant, D. A.A.A., has stated that he facilitated at a Guard post
Civil your personal data and those of your minor daughter on the occasion of completing the
"Signed declaration of travel permission for minors or persons with disabilities" form
judicially modified capacity” and also a copy of the DNI of both, without
manage the procedure, neither verbally nor in the document that was delivered to him, he was
had informed about the processing of your personal data or about the destination that
it was to be given to the photocopies they obtained of their identity documents.

2.- Work in the file, provided by the claimant, a copy of the official document
called “Signed declaration of travel permit for minors or persons with
judicially modified capacity”, which bears the anagrams of the Ministry of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

Interior and the Civil Guard. It contains, in addition to the date and time of the
appearance before the Civil Guard post, the details of the minor - name, two
surnames, DNI, date and place of birth and address-; the details of the claimant and the
data of the ex-spouse of the claimant and mother of the minor -also name, two
surnames, DNI, date and place of birth and address. Record the travel data
-country and locality of destination, date and name of the companion-. It is signed by
claimant and by the mother of the minor and incorporates the seal of the Command of the
Civil Guard.

3.- The official document called "Signed declaration of travel permit for
minors or persons with judicially modified capacity”, described in Fact
Tested 2 and that the claimant has contributed, includes in its lower left part a
independent box with the heading "Documentation presented": In it are
marked with a cross the lines with these legends. “Guardian identity documents
legal of the minor”; "Identity document of the minor"; “Family book or document
proof of affiliation.

4. The official document called “Signed declaration of travel permit for
minors or persons with judicially modified capacity”, described in Acts
proven precedents, does not contain any information regarding the treatment of
personal information.

5.- Work in the file, provided by the General Directorate of the Civil Guard, copy
of the Official Letter addressed to this Agency, with entry date in the registry on 12/07/2018, in
which states that the DPD has resolved to communicate these extremes to the claimant:

- That it has been found that the model used was not updated and lacked

of the information required by the RGPD.

- That due to an error of the processing civil guard, at first
attached photocopies of identity documents, but,
later, when it was found that they were not necessary, they were
destroyed.
 They have apologized for it.

-
- That you have been informed that, as stated, the document used in the
Civil Guard post to which he alludes in his complaint “has not been updated after
the entry into force of the European Data Protection Regulation” for which
it lacks the mandatory information; that due to an error of the civil guard
At first, the processing agent attached the photocopies of the
personal documentation being subsequently destroyed when
proved its unnecessary.

- That it has been agreed to urge the INTPOL data controller to
as soon as possible, have the model updated with the information
mandatory.

6.- Provide as an attached document a copy of the letter sent to the claimant, with
date of departure from that General Directorate on 11/19/2018, in which he acknowledges receipt of the
claim filed with the AEPD; informs you that, indeed, the document
used had not been updated after the entry into force of the RGPD; regrets it
occurred, which is due, he says, to the large amount of documentation and models to
update and informs you that it was caused by an inadvertent error by the guard

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

civilian who attended him, who mistakenly understood that he should make a copy of the
identity documents provided when it was only necessary to verify the data
facilitated. After which, he adds that "once the error was verified, the photocopies were
removed by paper shredder. It also provides a document from the S.E.
Post and Telegraph, S.A.E. that accredits the certified delivery of the letter to the claimant

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

Article 58 of the RGPD, “Powers of Attorney”, says:

 II

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

 (…)
 d) order the data controller that the processing operations be carried out
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period;

Article 83.7 of the RGPD provides that "Without prejudice to the corrective powers
of the supervisory authorities within the meaning of Article 58(2), each Member State
may establish rules on whether and to what extent fines can be imposed
administrative authorities and public bodies established in that State
member".

Under the authorization that the RGPD (article 83.7) grants to the States
members, our LOPDGDD, in article 77, under the heading "Regime applicable to
certain categories of data controllers or processors” provides:

 
"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the

autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

(…)
2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested parties, if any”. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

Therefore, our legal system (former article 77 LOPDGDD) provides that
when it is a body of the General State Administration -as here
occurs- the person responsible for data processing typified in articles 72 to 74
of the LOPDGDD -related to very serious, serious and minor infractions- the sanction to
impose will be the warning (provided for in article 58.2.b, of the RGPD) and may
also determine what measures should be taken to stop or correct the effects
of the infractions in which it had incurred.

III

Article 5 of the RGPD, “Principles related to treatment”, mentions among

others, section a), that of “transparency”:

“Personal data will be:
processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

(<<legality, loyalty and transparency>>)

In this sense, Recital 60 of the RGPD says:

  “The principles of fair and transparent processing require that the
interested party of the existence of the treatment operation and its purposes. The responsible
of the treatment must provide the interested party with as much complementary information as is
necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing, taking into account the
specific circumstances and context in which the personal data is processed. I know
must also inform the interested party of the existence of profiling and
the consequences of such elaboration. If personal data is obtained from
interested parties, they must also be informed of whether they are obliged to provide them and of the
consequences if they don't. This information may be transmitted in
combination with standardized icons that offer, in an easily visible way,
intelligible and clearly legible, an adequate overview of the treatment
provided. Icons presented in electronic format must be legible
mechanically." (The underlining is from the AEPD)

Article 12 of the RGPD states that the data controller "will take the
appropriate measures to provide the interested party with all the information indicated in the
articles 13 and 14, as well as any communication under articles 15 to 22
and 34 related to the treatment, in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily
access, in clear and plain language, in particular any information directed
specifically a child. The information will be provided in writing or by other
means, including, if applicable, by electronic means. When requested by
interested, the information may be provided verbally as long as the
identity of the interested party by other means.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

Article 13 of the RGPD, under the heading “Information to be provided

when the personal data is obtained from the interested party”, it says:

 
"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis

representative;

legal treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the

legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,

in your case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to
the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to
data portability;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of
not provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

8/10

personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said further treatment, information
for that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.” (The underlining is from the
AEPD)

The infringement of article 13 of the RGPD is typified in article 83.5

of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 precept that establishes:

“Infringements of the following provisions will be sanctioned in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

(…)
b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;
(…)”
        
At the same time, the LOPDGDD typifies in article 72.1.h) as a very
serious “The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law”.

IV

In the case at hand, it has been fully proven that the
"Signed declaration of travel permission for minors or persons with disabilities" form
judicially modified capacity” that they used in the posts of the Civil Guard
In August 2018, it did not provide information in the terms of article 13 of the RGPD to
the people from whom personal data is collected; that is, to the parents or
guardians of minors or legally incapacitated persons.

As indicated in the proven facts, there is in the file a copy of the
aforementioned form, duly completed by the parents of the minor and
sealed by the Civil Guard, which allows corroborating that there is no
informative clause.

 In addition, the DPD of the Civil Guard, in its response to the information request
made by this Agency in the phase of admission to processing of the claim, stated that
had "verified that effectively, within the process of updating
documentary that is being made after the entry into force of the General Regulation of
Data Protection, said certification model has not yet been updated,
lack of required information
 

 ”. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

Regarding the copy of the identification documents (DNI) that are
collected from the claimant and his family, the explanation offered by the DPD is that
It was an isolated event derived from the improper interpretation of the investigating agent.
However, the terms in which that clause of the form is written
-“Documents presented”, followed by a list of the possible documents
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

to contribute- propitiate such an interpretation.

In addition to the above, it should be noted that the RGPD entered into force at twenty
days of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, which occurred on
05/04/2016, but which was not effective until 05/25/2018 (article 99 of the
GDPR). So enough time passed between the two dates to adjust
to the new legal regime of data protection the models of forms that the
Civil Guard uses.

Thus, the subjective element of the behavior is present in the behavior analysed.
guilt - materialized in a serious lack of diligence shown by that center
executive - whose presence is essential to demand administrative responsibility
sanctioning The principle of culpability governs in our sanctioning law, which
prevents the imposition of sanctions based on the strict liability of the alleged
offender – principle implicit in articles 9.3 and 25 of the C.E. according to STC 76/1999, and
Article 28 of Law 40/2015, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector.

The omission in the forms used by the Civil Guard to certify the
travel permits for minors or people with modified capacity
judicially of the information that according to article 13 of the RGPD was obliged
to provide to the people from whom the data is collected is subsumable in the
penalty type of article 83.5.b. of the GDPR. And for prescription purposes it would be
framed in the sanctioning type of article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD.

In view of the foregoing, it is agreed to impose on the General Directorate of the
Civil Guard, as responsible for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, foreseen
in its article 83.5.b, a sanction of warning.

It is also agreed to order it to adapt to the informative requirements of the
article 13 of the RGPD the forms through which you certify the permission for
travel by minors or with judicially modified capacity, and must
accredit this end before the Agency within a period of one month computed from the
receipt of this resolution. Likewise, in order to prevent the security agents from
the civil guard that instructs these acts, copies of the documents of
identity of the people who provide their data, it is urged to give a new wording to
the corresponding clause, so that it refers only to the
documents that have been exhibited to verify the reality of the data provided and
not, as it appears in the analyzed form, to the “provided documents”.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency

Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE CIVIL GUARD, with NIF
S2816003D, for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5.b) of the RGPD, a sanction of WARNING in accordance with the provisions
in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

SECOND: Likewise, in accordance with article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, it is ORDERED to the
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE CIVIL GUARD, with NIF S2816003D, which informs
this Agency and provide documentary evidence within a month following the
notification of the resolution, that in the forms destined to the "Declaration
signed travel permit for minors or people with modified capacity
judicially” used by the Civil Guard provide the information required by article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, General Data Protection.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
CIVIL GUARD with NIF S2816003D.

FOURTH
 
established in article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, as

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with article
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

