 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  5/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Luxembourg  regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

 

 

Adopted on 29 January 2020 

 

Adopted 

 

Table of contents 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements . 4 

  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 

2.2.1 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 6 

2.2.2 

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ........................................................... 6 

2.2.3 

RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................ 7 

2.2.4 

PROCESS REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................... 7 

Conclusions / Recommendations ................................................................................................... 8 

Final Remarks ................................................................................................................................. 9 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having regard to Article 51 (1b) of Directive 2016/680 EU  on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, 
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and 
on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Council  Framework  Decision  2008/977/JHA 
(hereafter “Law Enforcement Directive”).  

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

 

Whereas: 

(1)  The  main  role  of  the  Board  is to  ensure  the  consistent  application of the  Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by  encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

(2) With reference to Article 43 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt accreditation 
requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow generation of 
trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

 (3)  While  requirements  for  accreditation  are  subject  to  the  consistency  mechanism, this  does  not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

                                                           

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679)”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  and  “Guidelines  1/2018  on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679” will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

(5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority, the  supervisory authority  should establish accreditation  requirements  including,  but  not 
limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  
 
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision of  the  Chair,  this period may  be  extended  by  a  further  six  weeks  taking  into  account  the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

The LU  SA  has submitted its  draft  accreditation requirements under Article 43 (1)(a)   to the EDPB. 
Following a decision deeming the file complete, it was broadcasted on 25 October 2019. The LU SA 
will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify using GDPR certification criteria. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

  ASSESSMENT        

  General  reasoning  of  the  EDPB  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
addition  to  ISO  17065  or  as  a  full  set  of  requirements,  for  the  purposes  of  allowing  a  national 
accreditation body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for 
issuing and renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the 
tasks and powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the LU SA is tasked 
                                                           

2 Para. 39 Guidelines:  
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_201804_v3.0_accreditationcertificationb
odies_annex1_en.pdf 

4 

Adopted 

by  national  law  to  carry  out  the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies.  To  this  end,  the  LU  SA  has 
developed a set of requirements specifically for accreditation of certification bodies in conjunction 
with a set of certification criteria that is yet to be formally approved .  

The  assessment  of  the  accreditation  requirements  is  aimed  at  examining  variations  (additions  or 
deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  the  Annex.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s  Opinion  is  also 
focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the  accreditation  of 
certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the  SAs  while  defining  their  accreditation  requirements.  The  guidelines  Annex  does  not  constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context. 

The  Board  has  conducted  its  assessment  in  line  with  the  structure  foreseen  in  Annex  1  to  the 
Guidelines. When this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the LU SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements, it should be read as the Board is not having any comments and is not asking the LU SA 
to  take  further  action.    The  Board  notes  that  the  LU  SA  has  provided  information  to      help  the 
assessment  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements.  However,  the  Opinion  of  the  Board  only 
addresses the draft accreditation requirements.   

Furthermore, this opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the LU SA, which are outside the 
scope of article 43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes 
that national legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a. 

 addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 
any deviation from the Annex. 

b. 

independence of the certification body 

c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

d.  expertise of the certification body 

e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
 
Taking into account that: 

3. 

a.  Article  43  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  certification  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

Adopted 

5 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority.  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself, 

d.  Article  64  (1)  (c)  GDPR  provides  that  the  Board shall issue  an  opinion where  a supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3)  

the Board is of the opinion that: 

 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

The Board notes that the draft accreditation requirements do not completely follow the structure set 
out in Annex 1 to the Guidelines. For example, the sections on “scope” and “terms and definitions” 
are  missing.  In  connection  to  this,  the  Board  notes  that  some  terms  are  not  used  consistently 
throughout the document, such as “client” and “applicant”. In order to avoid confusion, the terms 
used  should  be  aligned  with  the  Guidelines  and  the  Annex  definitions  where  possible  and  used 
consistently. Therefore, with the aim to facilitate the assessment, the Board encourages the LU SA to 
follow the structure of Annex 1 [to the Guidelines] in the draft accreditation requirements and add 
the missing sections..  

The Board observes that, throughout the document, there are several references to the requirements 
“of this certification mechanism” (for example requirement 4.6.4) or to certification bodies that are 
accredited “under the (...) certification mechanism” (for example requirement 2.2.2). The reference 
to the certification mechanism seems to be a drafting issue. Thus, the Board encourages the LU SA to 
redraft  the  references  in  order  to  reflect  that  the  certification  bodies  are  accredited  against  the 
requirements approved by the supervisory authority. 

On a similar note, the reference to the “requirements set out in this certification mechanism”, used 
throughout  the  document  (for  example  requirement  1.1.1.2),  is  confusing.  A  more  appropriate 
reference could be “the criteria set out in the certification mechanism”. Thus, the Board encourages 
the LU SA to clarify all references to “the certification mechanism” throughout the document.   

 The  Board  observes  that  several  requirements  (e.g.  3.2.1.1  and  4.1.2)  refer  to  the  “relevant 
International Standards”, the “relevant standard” or the “specified standard”. However, there is no 
definition of such standards and, therefore, it is unclear which are the standards referred to. Thus, the 
Board  recommends  the  LU  SA  to  clarify  the  meaning  of  such  standards.  This  could  be  done,  for 
example, in the “scope” or “terms and definitions” sections. 

 

The Board notes that LU SA requirement 1.1.1.1 refers to another standard (“ISAE 3000”), which the 
EDPB has not assessed. Therefore, the Board recommends the LU SA to clarify that the requirements 
cannot be overridden by any external standard, such as ISAE 3000.  

The Board notes that the requirements in 1.6 do not include the obligation of the certification body 
to publish and make easily publicly available all versions of the approved criteria and all certification 
procedures, as established in the Annex to the Guidelines (section 4.6). The Board notes that LU SA 

Adopted 

6 

might be the certification scheme owner , however the Board considers that it would be helpful to 
add an appropriate reference to ensure that the  criteria is up to date and easily accessible via the 
certification body itself.  In this regard, the Board considers that by making the information available 
only upon request, as set up in requirement 1.6.1, the LU SA is stablishing a stricter requirement than 
the Annex, which establishes that the information shall be make easily publicly available. Therefore, 
the Board recommends the LU SA to amend the requirement in order to include the obligation of the 
certification  body  to  make  easily  publicly  available  all  versions  of  the  approved  criteria  and  all 
certification procedures, in line with the Annex to the Guidelines. 

The  Board  notes  that  requirement  1.2.4  refers to  the  ‘certified  process’.  The Board  considers  that 
more  precise  wording,  in  line  with  the  Guidelines  could  be  used,  such  as  ‘certified  processing 
operations/activities’.  This  provides  for  the  broader  certification  scope,  as  provided  by  GDPR. 
Therefore, the Board encourages de LU SA to amend the draft requirements accordingly.  

 

The Board notes that requirement 3.1.1.2 seems repetitive and unclear, not helped by the different 
terminology. For example, the third paragraph reads as if the engagement partner makes the decision 
of  suitability  on  their  judgement  alone.  The  Board  recommends  LU  SA  to  redraft  to  make  the 
requirement clearer and more understandable, using consistent terminology.  

 

The  Board  observes  that  requirement  4.2.1  provides  several  examples  of  necessary  information. 
Nonetheless, the first two examples provided should be a requirement by themselves, in accordance 
with section 7.2 of the Annex 1 to the Guidelines. Therefore, the Board encourages the LU SA to amend 
the wording and include the above-mentioned examples as requirements.  

10. 

11. 

12. 

13.  With regard to section 4.4 (Evaluation) of the LU SA accreditation requirements, the Board is of the 
opinion that the accreditation requirements should include the obligation of the certification body to 
ensure that there are evaluation methods in place, and that those evaluation methods, described in 
the  certification  mechanism,  are  standardised  and  generally  applicable.  This  would  ensure  that 
comparable evaluation methods are used for comparable targets of evaluation. Any deviations from 
these  evaluation  methods  would  need  to  be  justified  by  the  certification  body.  Hence,  the  Board 
recommends the LU SA to amend the draft in order to include the above-mentioned obligation for the 
certification body.  

14. 

15. 

Furthermore, the Board takes note that requirement 4.4.2 states that, even though outsourcing is not 
allowed, the certification body can use external experts for specific areas. In this regard, it is important 
to clarify that the certification body will retain the responsibility for the decision-making, even when 
it  uses  external  experts.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  the  LU  SA  to  amend  the  wording  in 
requirement 4.4.2 accordingly.  

The  Board  observes  that  section  4.7  of  the  LU  SA  accreditation  requirements  (“certification 
documentation”)  does  not  address  the  requirement  in  the  Annex  for  documenting  the  period  of 
surveillance    (section  7.9).  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  LU  SA  to  include  the  period  of 
monitoring within the meaning of section 7.9 on surveillance.  

16.  With regard to section 4.8 (“directory of certified processing activities”) of the LU SA accreditation 
requirements,  requirement  4.8.1  states  that  the  information  will  be  provided  to  the  public  “upon 
request”. The Board is of the opinion that, the transparency obligation set out in section 7.8 of Annex 

Adopted 

7 

1 would be better fulfilled if the information was made available pro-actively by the certification body. 
Thus, the Board recommends the LU SA to amend the draft in order to provide that the certification 
body  will  make  publicly  available  the  information  referred  to  in  section  7.8  of  Annex  1  of  the 
Guidelines.  

17. 

The Board notes that section 4.8 has a heading for surveillance without any requirements. The Board 
recommends that LU SA to clarify how monitoring will be carried out.  

18.  Concerning the termination, reduction, suspension or withdrawal of certification (subsection 4.10), 
the  Board  notes  that  there  is  no  reference  to  the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  accept 
decisions  and  orders  from  the  competent  supervisory  authority  to  withdraw  or  not  to  issue 
certification to a customer (applicant) if the requirements for certification are not or no longer met. 
This obligation is set out in Article 58(2)(h) GDPR as well as in section 7.11 of Annex 1. Therefore, the 
Board  recommends the LU SA to amend the accreditation requirements specifying the rules covering 
withdrawal, termination, reduction or suspension of the certification .  

19. 

The Board notes that section 9 of the annex which has general headings do not have requirements. 
For example, section 9.3.4 on suspension or withdrawal of accreditation in not covered here.  These 
are significant headings that warrant cross references to the relevant sections or requirements being 
added. The Board encourages LU SA to clarify where the requirements are covered.  

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

20. 

The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  Luxembourg  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an 
inconsistent application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to 
be made: 

21.  As general remarks, the Board recommends that the LU SA: 

1.  clarifies  the  meaning  of  “standard”,  as  referred  in  several  requirements  (e.g.  3.2.1.1  and 

4.1.2). This could be done, for example, in the “scope” or “terms and definitions” sections. 

22.  Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’ the Board recommends that the LU SA:  

1.  clarifies that the requirements cannot be overridden by any external standard, such as ISAE 

3000.  

2.  amends the requirements in 1.6 in order to include the obligation of the certification body to 
publish  and  make  easily  publicly  available  all  versions  of  the  approved  criteria  and  all 
certification procedures, in line with the Annex to the Guidelines. 

23.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’ the Board recommends that the LU SA:  

1.  redrafts requirement 3.1.1.2 to make it clearer and more understandable, using consistent 

terminology.  

24.  Regarding ‘process requirements’ the Board recommends that the LU SA:  

1.  amends  section  4.4  of  the  draft  requirements  in  order  to  include  the  obligation  of  the 
certification  body  to  ensure  that  there  are  evaluation  methods  in  place,  and  that  those 

Adopted 

8 

evaluation methods, described in the certification mechanism, are standardised and generally 
applicable.  Any  deviations from  the  evaluation methods  would  need to  be  justified  by  the 
certification body. 

2.  amends the wording in requirement 4.4.2 in order to make explicit that the certification body 

will retain the responsibility for the decision-making, even when it uses external experts. 

3.  amends  section  4.8  of  its  draft  accreditation  requirements  in  order  to  provide  that  the 
certification  body  will make  publicly  available the  information  referred  to  in  section  7.8 of 
Annex 1 of the Guidelines.  

4.  clarifies in section 4.8 how the monitoring will be carried out..  

5.  amends subsection 4.10 in order to specify rules covering withdrawal, termination, reduction 

or suspension of the certification. 

  FINAL REMARKS 

25. 

This opinion is addressed to the LU SA and will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5b) GDPR. 

26.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the supervisory authority shall communicate to the Chair by 
electronic means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its 
draft list. Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend 
to follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend 
to follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

9 

