1/16

Litigation Chamber
 
Decision on the merits 33/2020 of 19 June 2020

 

 

 
File number: DOS-2019-05200
 
Subject: Complaint for unlawful and inaccurate processing of personal data as well as
as violations in the exercise of the data subject's rights
 
 
The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke
Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Jelle Stassijns and Christophe Boeraeve;
 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the
data protection, hereinafter the "GDPR");
 
Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter the
ACL;
 
Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on
December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;
 
Considering the documents in the file;
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 2/16

made the following decision regarding:

- Mr. X, hereinafter "the complainant", and
-

Y, hereinafter "the defendant".

 
 
 

1. Facts and procedure

Facts
 

2. On August 19, 2019, the complainant contacted the Data Protection Officer of the

defendant in an e-mail. He writes the following:

"Dear,
Although I am not myself a client of [the defendant], I nevertheless received this
update an email from you regarding a workshop you are offering. Therefore, I
asks the following questions:
- Where did you get my email address and what party did you get it from?
- On what legal basis do you rely to send me this e-mail?
- What information do you still have about me?

Please accept, Madam, Sir, the expression of my best feelings.
[the plaintiff]" [Editor's note: all the passages from the file are free translations
carried out by the Secretariat of the Data Protection Authority, in the absence of
official translation]

3. On August 26, 2019, the Respondent (...) replied as follows:

 

“Dear (the Complainant),
In order to respond to your request, we kindly ask you to
provide us with your address and date of birth. We have in
effect noted that several people with the same name appear in our database
of data.
We also ask you to send us the e-mail of which you speak in
your message so that we have an idea of the email it is about.
We thank you in advance [...]"

 

4. Following this, the plaintiff provided the defendant by e-mail on the same date with his address
current postal address and former address as well as date of birth. The complainant
mentions, however, in this context that he is considering the defendant's request that he
provide this data as contrary to the rules of the GDPR.
 

5. On the same day, i.e. August 26, 2019, the Respondent responds (...) as follows:

"Sir,
In order to be sure that the right information is [transmitted] to the right person
concerned, it is permitted to request additional parameters. These elements
additional information is requested exclusively in order to be able to deal with the said question
but are not kept in an internal system.
Unfortunately, this information does not make it possible to establish a link with a
person in our database.

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 3/16

As a last resort, the e-mail itself can be checked to see if it is
an e-mail from [the defendant] and not a phishing message. Could you
therefore send us the e-mail in question?
We thank you in advance [...]"
 

6. On the same day, i.e. August 26, 2019, the Complainant forwarded to the Respondent the e-mail which
gave rise to the complaint, as the latter had requested. This forwarded email is titled
"W" and was sent on August 19, 2019 by the defendant to the plaintiff. The message includes
non-personalized content for commercial purposes, targeting businesses
independent.

7. On September 12, 2019, the plaintiff received a new commercial email from the defendant

 

titled "W".
 

8. On September 13, 2019, the Complainant again sends an e-mail to the Respondent. In this
frame, the complainant forwards the email containing direct marketing content.
prospecting within the meaning of the GDPR] from the defendant to the complainant of September 12, 2019. As
supplement, the plaintiff writes the following:

 

"Dear,
On August 19, I already sent you an e-mail regarding the advertisement I received from
your services. So far, I still haven't received any clear answer on this.
In summary, here are my questions:
What legal basis under the [GDPR] are you using to send me these
emails?
Direct marketing (what those emails are) is permitted under the [GDPR] with
legitimate interest as a legal basis. (opinion of the Data Protection Authority).
[In case of] legitimate interest, a balancing of interests must always be carried out.
It seems to me that this did not [happen]. I am indeed not an SME or a
independent and therefore have no interest in receiving these emails.
Another track could be informed consent. This track also seems to me
very hard to believe given that I am not in your system (but I
receive e-mails from your services). You have thus almost confirmed that I do not
never gave my consent for the sending of these e-mails.
Where did you get my data?
Under GDPR legislation, obtain personal data
(my email address) and using them is not so simple. Therefore, I would like to be informed
how you obtained my personal data and how
how these are secured, etc.
What data do you hold about me?
As part of my right to information, I would like to know what data you
still hold about me. In addition, I would also like to receive a copy of
my data.
After receiving this e-mail, I hope to receive a clear and transparent response from
your part [...]."

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 4/16

9. On September 20, 2019, the complainant sent another e-mail to the Data Protection Officer

 

data of the defendant:

"Dear,

A little over 30 days ago, I asked you for further information by
e-mail regarding the processing of my personal data.
Unfortunately, so far I have not yet received a response to my
Questions.
I think I remember that the data controller has 30 days to
accede to a request, extension period of 30 days if the person concerned is
informed and that there is a valid reason. This is currently not the case.
If no response is provided within a reasonable time, I plan to undertake
other steps [...]."

10. On October 10, 2019, the complainant filed a complaint with the Authority for the Protection of

data.
 
His complaint mentions the facts described above as well as the following: “Then the
communications have completely ceased on [the defendant's] side. In the meantime we are
almost 2 months later, including more than a month without communication."

11. The Complainant attached to this complaint several pieces of evidence attesting to the communication between the

plaintiff and the defendant.
 

Procedure
 

12. On October 29, 2019, the Front Line Service of the Data Protection Authority

declares the complaint admissible and forwards it to the Litigation Chamber.
 

13. On November 7, 2019, the Litigation Chamber sent a request to the complainant concerning
the transmission of additional evidence that he mentions in his complaint. The complainant
send this additional evidence on 22 November 2019.
 
 

14. On November 28, 2019, the plaintiff and the defendant were informed that a case was pending,
for which the Litigation Chamber decided that it could be dealt with on the merits,
in accordance with article 98 juncto article 95, § 2 of the LCA. The plaintiff and the defendant
are invited to submit their arguments and conclusions within the deadlines set by the
Litigation Chamber.
 

15. On January 6, 2020, the defendant files its conclusions.

16. The defendant specifies first of all that the e-mails were not actually intended for the
complainant but to another person with the same first and last name. The person is
described by the defendant as "Targeted Recipient".
 

 

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 5/16

17. The defendant goes on to say that it claimed the personal data
additional information, namely the complainant's postal address and date of birth, by e-mail
with the complainant on August 26, 2019 for identification, "given the existence of homonyms
and in order to be able to identify the e-mail in question".
 

18. Regarding the communication of August 26, 2019, the Respondent writes the following:

"After verification, it turned out that the Complainant did not appear in the database
of [the defendant] and was therefore unknown to [the defendant]. This was confirmed at
Complainant by e-mail on August 26, 2019.
 
Following this, [the defendant] began an investigation regarding the email itself.
 
On September 13, the Complainant sent a new list of questions [...] and [the
respondent] adapted the scope of its investigation in order to also be able to provide
answers to these questions."

 
19. The defendant asserts in its submissions that it has in the meantime been able to complete the "analysis" of

the situation. It formulates the findings of this analysis as follows:

“i) The e-mail that the Complainant received is the e-mail V which was intended for the Intended Recipient;
ii) In the file of the Intended Recipient there was an e-mail address [...] which, on the basis of the
exchanges by e-mail with the Complainant, turns out to be that of the Complainant (and not that of the
Intended Recipient);
iii) Human error was the cause of this error;
iv) This error had not yet been discovered at the time of sending the email V.
In order to prevent the Complainant's e-mail address from being used again in the future,
[the defendant] has adapted the form of the Intended Recipient."
 

20. The defendant asserts that it complied with Articles 12 and 14 of the GDPR in its
communications with the complainant, given that it checked the complainant's identity within the time limit
a week and confirmed to the complainant that he was not in the database of the
defendant. As to the lack of response to the complainant's other questions and to the
information and communications relating to other actions, the defendant advances the
following defence:

 

“The further investigation into the origin of the presence of the Complainant's e-mail address
in the Intended Recipient file turned out to be a more complex analysis.
Consequently, the investigation was not closed at the time the Complainant submitted his
complaint. However, [the defendant] now considers that it has provided the information
necessary and have taken the appropriate measures to prevent this e-mail address from being
again processed in error."
 

21. The Respondent requests the dismissal, since "the processing of the Complainant's e-mail address
resulted from a manual error" and that the processing of personal data was
"purely accidental". The defendant further points out that it removed the e-mail address of
its systems "after an investigation". The defendant does not specify when it
took this action. In the alternative, the defendant asks for the judgment to be suspended.
According to her, other measures or sanctions would be "disproportionate".
 

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 6/16

22. If the Litigation Chamber decides to proceed with the publication of its decision, the

defendant requests that it be anonymized.
 

23. The Complainant does not submit any submissions in reply.

 

 

24. On February 4, 2020, the defendant confirms the content of its first conclusions.

25. In order to allow the defendant to defend itself concerning the amount of the fine
administrative set by the Litigation Chamber, the latter decided to list the
violations in question in its standard form "reaction form against a
envisaged fine". This "fine form" was sent to the defendant by e-mail on
May 12, 2020, mentioning that the defendant could react regarding the circumstances
particulars of the case, the envisaged amount of the fine and the annual figures which have been
submitted1.
 

26. The defendant replies to the fine form by e-mail of May 29, 2020, with its
arguments relating to the amount of the fine [...]. The defendant also draws the attention
on the importance of the decision being anonymized in case of possible publication
and that the elements that could lead to the identification of the defendant be deleted.
The defendant asserts that the identification of the defendant in the press could
lead to reputational damage.

2. Motivation

 

 
2.1.

The principles relating to the processing of personal data and the lawfulness of the
processing (Articles 5 and 6 GDPR)

 

27. Article 5, paragraph 1, point a) of the GDPR provides in particular that personal data
personnel must be processed lawfully, fairly, transparently and accurately. Article 6 of
GDPR establishes how lawful processing takes place.
 
a) The lawfulness of the processing and the responsibility of the controller
 

28. On August 19, 2019, the complainant received an email to promote a workshop for freelancers
and small businesses; this is a message that may be considered marketing
direct2. The e-mail has the subject "W". The e-mail is sent to the personal e-mail address of the
complainant. According to Article 4(1) of the GDPR, an e-mail address is a data
of a personal nature. The plaintiff mentions that he is not a client of the defendant.
 

29. The Litigation Chamber considers that the processing of the complainant's e-mail address by the
defendant is not lawful within the meaning of Article 6 of the GDPR and is based in particular on the

                                                
1 The invitation to limited conclusions was sent by e-mail in the context where the Litigation Chamber was in
the impossibility of sending this invitation to limited conclusions by registered mail, in accordance with article 95 of the LCA, in
mentioning that the Litigation Division was prepared to grant, if necessary, longer deadlines for the submission of
conclusions for the defendant in the context of the spread of the Coronavirus. The defendant did receive this e-mail and
responded to it within 3 weeks.
2 In accordance with what is set out on this subject in Recommendation no. 01/2020 of 17 January 2020 of the Autorité de la
data protection relating to the processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes and more
particularly
:
https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/Recommendation_01-
2020_marketing_direct.pdf.pdf, point 14.

available

definition,

following

link

via

the

the

at

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 7/16

statements by the defendant itself in this regard. This is the use of an address
erroneous email that does not belong to the person the defendant wishes to contact.
None of the conditions listed in Article 6, paragraph 1 of the GDPR are met. According to
defendant, the processing is due to human error. The defendant's own analysis
results in the following technical statement:

"In the card of the Targeted Recipient appeared an e-mail address [...] which, on the basis of the
exchanges by e-mail with the Complainant, turns out to be that of the Complainant (and not that of the
Intended Recipient)"
 

30. The Litigation Division understands the defendant's argument that this is a
manual error and never intended to process the personal data
or to contact the plaintiff, especially since the defendant had no interest in
contact the complainant with a message directed to independent contractors.
The complainant is not part of the target audience. Furthermore, in this case, it turns out that it is
unlawful isolated processing, due, according to the defendant, to a manual error due to
the existence of a person bearing the same surname and first name as that of which the defendant
said to process personal data lawfully.
 

31. The Litigation Division nevertheless draws attention to the fact that the "manual error" in
the origin of the problem in no way cancels the responsibility of the data controller3.
This is also the case when the controller has already become aware of the fact
that processing does not comply with the legal provisions on the protection of
personal data and that he still continues the processing - after having
found that the complainant is not in its systems - as illustrated by the message from
direct marketing of September 12, 2019.
 

32. In this context, the Litigation Division finds that such processing has adverse effects
negative for the person concerned. The mere receipt of an e-mail which, moreover, is not
intended for the addressee, may be perceived as disturbing and, therefore, considered as
detrimental to a data subject.
 
b) The accuracy of the processing of personal data
 

33. When the defendant asserts on August 26, 2019 that on the basis of the plaintiff's identifiers5
which have been provided, "no link" can be established with a person who is known to the
defendant and that the plaintiff received again, more than two weeks later, a
similar message from the defendant, this indicates that the defendant not only deals
(again) the complainant's personal data unlawfully but also infringes
the principle relating to the accuracy of personal data, in accordance with Article 5,
paragraph 1, point d) of the GDPR.

                                                
3 In accordance with Article 24 of the GDPR, attention can be drawn to the appropriate technical and organizational measures
that the controller must take to bring its processing into compliance with the provisions of the GDPR.
4 See recital 75 of the GDPR: "Risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the degree of likelihood of which
and of varying severity, may result from the processing of personal data which is likely to result in
physical or material damage or moral prejudice, in particular: when the processing may give rise to a
discrimination, identity theft or theft, financial loss, damage to reputation, loss of
confidentiality of data protected by professional secrecy, to an unauthorized reversal of the process of
pseudonymization or any other significant economic or social damage.[…]"
5 These are certain data that can lead to the identification of a person, a company, ...



2.2.

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 8/16

34. Already on August 16, 2019, the day of receipt of the first e-mail from the defendant by the
complainant, the latter makes it clear that the processing of the e-mail address may be a
unlawful processing. This is clear from the message and the questions that the Complainant
addressed to the defendant:

“Although I am not a client of [the defendant], I still received an e-mail
this day [...]
- Where did you get my email address and what party did you get it from?
- On what legal basis do you rely to send me this e-mail?
- What information do you still have about me?

35. In addition, attention can also be drawn to Article 5(1)(d)

 

GDPR:

“Personal data must be accurate and, where necessary, kept
day ; all reasonable steps must be taken to ensure that the data to be
personal character which are inaccurate, having regard to the purposes for which they
are processed, erased or rectified without delay (accuracy)”

36. The defendant's continued use of the inaccurate personal data
with the e-mail of September 12, 2019 indicates that she did not rectify or erase "without delay" the
incorrect link in its systems to the complainant's email address. The fact that the defendant
does not stop using the email address for direct marketing purposes, more than three weeks
after the complainant's first request and more than two weeks after the own confirmation
plaintiff that it is not known to the defendant indicates the failure to take "measures
reasonable" in order to ensure the accuracy of the processing of personal data at the
meaning of Article 5, paragraph 1, point d) of the GDPR.
 
Transparency of information and communications and procedures for exercising rights
of the data subject and the exercise of the right of access by the data subject in
connection with the liability of the defendant (article 12 juncto article 15 of the GDPR), read
in conjunction with the controller's liability (Article 24 GDPR)

a) Article 12 GDPR

 

 

37. The Complainant sends the Respondent a request for the exercise of the right of access (Article 15

GDPR). This had already taken place in the complainant's first email of August 19, 2019.
According to Article 12, paragraph 3 of the GDPR, the defendant must "[provide] to the person
concerned information on the measures taken following a request made in
application of Articles 15 to 22, as soon as possible and in any case within a
period of 1 month from receipt of the request".
 

38. In the e-mail of August 26, 2019, the complainant learns from the defendant that he does not appear
in the database" of the defendant. The defendant then asks the plaintiff
to forward the e-mail itself so that it can examine whether it is indeed one of
his emails and not a phishing message. The complainant responded to this request on
same day, i.e. August 26, 2019, and forwards the defendant's e-mail from
August 19, 2019.
 

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 9/16

39. Over the next 17 days, no communication took place between the Complainant and the

defendant.
 

40. On September 13, 2019, the complainant sends a reminder clearly referring to the email
of August 19, 2019 and attaching a new direct marketing email from the defendant
dated September 12, 2019. The complainant again submits a request for the exercise of the
right of access to the defendant with questions similar to those formulated in the e-mail
sent to the defendant on August 19, 2019.

E-mail from the plaintiff to the defendant
August 19, 2019
"Where did you get my email address and from
which part did you get it?"
“On what legal basis do you rely for
send me this email?"

"What information do you still have
my subject ?

E-mail from the plaintiff to the defendant
September 13, 2019
"Where did you get my data?"

“What legal basis under the lines
GDPR guidelines do you use to
send me these emails?"
"What data do you hold for me
regarding ?"

41. Only the wording of the questions is different and the Complainant further adds, making
reference to the provisions of the GDPR, arguments as to why it
suspect that it is not a lawful treatment. Apart from the first question
mentioned in the table above, the plaintiff also writes: "Therefore, I would like to be
informed of how you obtained my personal data and of the
how these are secured, etc."
The defendant also does not respond to the email of September 13, 2019.
 

42. In its conclusions, the defendant refers to the email of September 13, 2019 containing
some additional questions (according to the defendant "a new list of questions")
in order to argue that this extends the scope of the investigation of complaints and questions from the
plaintiff: "the defendant adapted the scope of its investigation to also be able
answer these questions."
 

43. On September 20, 2019, the complainant again sends an e-mail in which he reminds the
defendant that he addressed to the defendant "a request concerning the treatment of
my personal data just over 30 days ago". It draws the attention of the
defendant on the fact that he plans to take "other steps" if no response
provided by the defendant "within a reasonable time".
 

44. The defendant does not respond to this message from the plaintiff either and more than two weeks
later, on October 10, 2019, the complainant finally filed a complaint with the Authority of
Data protection.

45. On reading the facts, it clearly appears that the defendant did not follow up "within the
as soon as possible" to the request to exercise the right of access. The fact that no response has been
made by the defendant to the complainant's last three messages is particularly
questioning.
 

 

 

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 10/16

46. Given that the defendant asserts that it opened "an investigation" following the e-mail of the
August 19, 2019 after finding on August 26, 2019 that the complainant was not known in
its systems, the defendant could have at least informed the complainant that this investigation
had begun and was in progress since the outcome of the complainant's request depended on it.
Pursuant to Article 12, paragraph 1 of the GDPR, it is indeed the responsibility of the person responsible for the
processing to "take appropriate steps to provide any information referred to in
articles 13 and 14 as well as to carry out any communication under articles 15 to 22
and Article 34 with regard to the processing to the data subject in a concise manner,
transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible, in clear and simple terms [...].".
 

47. If the defendant itself claims in its pleadings to have opened an investigation but
does not inform the complainant and does not communicate for weeks about the taking
possible measures and the response to the request to exercise human rights
concerned, communication regarding this request for access by the complainant does not take place
in accordance with Article 12(1) GDPR.
 

48. It is also clear that the maximum period of one month after receipt of the request as
contained in Article 12(3) of the GDPR has not been complied with. If the defendant had not
not yet complete its investigation into this and other matters and the
complainant's requests, she could have asked for an extension of time, as provided
Article 12(3) GDPR. The Litigation Chamber therefore finds that the
defendant also violates Article 12, paragraph 3 of the GDPR.
 

49. For the sake of completeness, it may be noted that the supplementary questions of the
complainant formulated in his e-mail of September 13, 2019 do not give rise to the slightest
interruption or suspension of the period referred to in Article 12(3) GDPR. The fact
whether the respondent's "scope of investigation" is extended is an internal matter which has not
no impact on the responsibility incumbent on it as controller of the processing of
comply with the provisions of the GDPR. In other words, on the first access request, the
defendant should have responded adequately within one month of the e-mail from the
August 19, 2019.

50. Given that the defendant concludes in its conclusions that it does not process any other data
personal character of the complainant and that the processing of the e-mail address is due to an "error
human", the investigation should not have been of such magnitude that the defendant,
until after the complainant has lodged his complaint with the Authority for the Protection of
data, could not reserve the least following the request to exercise the right of access by
the complainant. The length of the survey indicates an internal organization that does not facilitate
sufficient exercise of the rights of the data subject on the basis of Article 15 of the
GDPR as required by Article 12(2) GDPR.

51. For completeness, it may be specified that the defendant's August 26, 2019 request to the
complainant to obtain additional information about the identity of the complainant is possible
pursuant to Article 12(6) GDPR. The Litigation Chamber considers that the
additional identifiers requested by the defendant seem proportional and appropriate to the
request in question. In this case, the Litigation Division therefore finds no
violation, since Article 12(6) of the GDPR allows the controller to

 

 

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 11/16

doing so, better still, forces him to claim additional identifiers if the identity
of the applicant is not established with certainty6.
 

b) Article 15 GDPR

52. The defendant does not give any idea of the data available to it concerning the complainant
(even if limited to the complainant's e-mail address) or confirmation that it is processing or
not (or other) personal data of the complainant.
Pursuant to Article 15(3) GDPR, however, the controller is
obliged to provide a copy of the personal data to the complainant, as
data subject, if the latter so requests as part of the right of access.

 

53. On the basis of the documents in the file, including the submissions of the Respondent, the Chamber
Litigation concludes that under Article 15 of the GDPR, the defendant still has not
given sufficient response to the complainant's request for access.
 

c) Article 24 GDPR

 

 

54. Given the above motivation, it can be concluded that the Respondent did not take
sufficient technical and organizational measures for its processing to be
take place in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR7.
 

55. Based on the provisions of the GDPR and more specifically concerning the responsibility of the
responsible for processing under Article 24 of the GDPR, the Litigation Chamber proceeds
to a concrete assessment of each case. To establish the gravity of the violation, the Chamber
Litigation not only takes into account the specific factual elements of the file but
also of the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing in the context of which
the facts are located.

 
2.3.

Information to be provided when personal data has not been collected
with the data subject (Article 14 of the GDPR)

 

56. The processing of data is based on human error on the part of an employee of
the defendant. The defendant could not have known, at the time of sending the messages
containing direct marketing content, that such personal data had not
not been obtained from the complainant. According to the defendant, this is therefore indeed an "error
manual" after a "human error". The defendant therefore also did not obtain
e-mail address from a third party8.
 

                                                
6 In the specific context of this case, it is necessary, given the problem of homonyms, that the head of the
processing requires the additional data for identification and Article 11 GDPR does not apply.
7 Nevertheless, the controller bears the responsibility to comply with the legal provisions under the GDPR,
see DOCKSEY, C., "Article 24. Responsibility of the controller” in KUNER, C., BYGRAVE, L.A. and DOCKSEY, C. (eds.),The EU
General Data Protection Regulation: A Commentary, Oxford University Press, 557(560).
8 See ZANFIT-FORTUNA, G., “Article 14. Information to be provided where personal data have not been obtained from the data
subject” in KUNER, C., BYGRAVE, L.A. en DOCKSEY, C. (eds.),The EU General Data Protection Regulation: A Commentary,
Oxford University Press, 434(436): “Article 14 regulates what information must be given to data subject when they do not
provide themselves the personal data, but it is collected from third party sources.”

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 12/16

57. Since at the time of processing, the Respondent was unaware that the e-mail address had not
not been obtained from the complainant, nor can he be blamed for not having
transmitted to the complainant the information required under Article 14, paragraphs 1 to
4 inclusive GDPR when sending direct marketing messages. In this case,
article 14, paragraph 5, point b) of the GDPR applies since the provision of the
information turns out to be "impossible".

58. As an additional positive element in the assessment of compliance with obligations
of information as controller, reference may also be made to the
links to web pages regarding privacy in emails containing content
of the defendant's direct marketing. This allowed the complainant quick access to the
confidentiality statement of the defendant and the contact details of the delegate to the
Data protection. The above finding is unrelated to the assessment
by the Litigation Chamber of the other communications of the defendant with regard to the
complainant.
 

59. With regard to Article 14 of the GDPR, the Litigation Chamber finds no

failure on the part of the defendant.

3. Violations found and the imposition of an administrative fine

60. The Litigation Chamber considers that the violations of the following provisions by the

defendant are proven:

 

 

 

at.

b.

vs.

d.

Article 5 of the GDPR, since the defendant does not take sufficient measures
reasonable steps to rectify or erase personal data that has been
treated wrongly;
Article 6 of the GDPR, since none of the conditions for lawful processing to take place
is not met;
Article 15, juncto Article 12 of the GDPR, since the defendant has not undertaken
sufficient appropriate measures for the complainant to receive the communication
referred to in Article 15 of the GDPR in a transparent form; since the defendant
does not sufficiently facilitate the exercise of the complainant's rights as a person
concerned; given that the defendant does not provide any response to the plaintiff within the
one month after receipt of his request; given that the defendant does not provide the
complainant no response to his request to exercise the right of access;
Article 24 of the GDPR, since the defendant has not taken the technical measures
and organizational arrangements to ensure that its processing takes place
in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.
 

61. Given the economic and social role of the defendant, the Litigation Chamber considers that
the facts giving rise to a violation of Articles 5, 6 and 12 juncto Article 15 of the GDPR
are serious and decides to proceed with the imposition of an administrative fine.
 

62. The Litigation Division took note of the defendant's annual turnover
over the past three fiscal years. These figures are for each of these three financial years
between x and x billion euros9.

                                                
9 The concrete annual turnover figures for the 2017, 2018 and 2019 financial years cited are known to the Litigation Chamber.

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 13/16

63. In view of Article 83 of the GDPR and the case law of the Court of Markets, the
Litigation Chamber justifies the imposition of an administrative sanction in a
concrete :
 
a) The seriousness of the violation

 

64. The Litigation Division finds that the insufficient response to requests for the exercise of
rights of data subjects indicates that the violation of Articles 12 and 15 of the GDPR has been
committed negligently. This also resulted in the complainant suffering more
long as necessary in a disturbing way the disadvantages of unlawful processing seen
that his personal data has not been rectified in a timely manner. Saw the
nature of the defendant's economic activities and related processing, a
organization with shortcomings in terms of appropriate measures aimed at
facilitating the exercise of the rights of data subjects is worrying.
 

65. The rights of data subjects are part of the essence of the General Data Protection Regulation.
data protection and violations of these rights are punished with the most severe fines
high, in accordance with Article 83, paragraph 5 of the GDPR.
 

66. The origin of the request to exercise the right of access by the complainant is unlawful processing.
A human error that led to the use of the complainant's email address is causing
unlawful processing. Although this processing does constitute a breach of Articles 5
and 6 of the GDPR, the Litigation Chamber obviously takes into account the fact that this is a
limited violation, concerning - as far as is known - only one data subject.
The fact that the treatment was finally stopped also plays a role in the assessment of the facts
by the Litigation Chamber.
 

67. For the above reason, the amount of the administrative fine that the Chamber
Litigation imposes is relatively low compared to the annual turnover of
the previous year. The Litigation Chamber could nevertheless impose
a higher fine for similar violations committed by officials of the
treatment of similar economic size in another factual context.
 

68. Respondent's failures in communication and transparency
must be classified as serious, as should the non-rectification of personal data
staff who prevented the processing of the complainant's e-mail address from taking place
in a lawful and fair manner is a serious breach of the GDPR. Therefore, according to the
Litigation Chamber, an administrative fine constitutes an appropriate sanction.
 
b) The extent to which the controller has taken technical or

organizational
 

69. The Litigation Chamber understands that within the meaning of the GDPR, the legal mission sometimes involves,
and rather often, for the defendant and any other data controller, significant
organizational consequences, in order to be able to take "appropriate measures" to
respond appropriately to requests from data subjects, in accordance with the
articles 12 and 15 of the GDPR.
 

70. However, the Litigation Chamber draws attention to the fact that the provisions of the GDPR
had already been in force for more than a year at the time of the events and that the

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 14/16

 

defendant had the necessary time to take all the technical and
organizational measures to bring its processing and processes into compliance with the
GDPR provisions.
 

71. In this context, it is also surprising that the defendant did not reply to the three
Complainant's latest emails, despite clear and constructive communications from the
complainant. In this regard, the fact that this may be a small request for the
defendant does not matter. The provisions of the GDPR concern each processing of
personal data.
 
c) The duration of the violation

72. With regard to the duration of the violation, the Litigation Chamber draws attention to the
period between the plaintiff's request to the defendant and the filing of the complaint by the
complainant to the Data Protection Authority. The fact that no response was
brought to the last three messages of the complainant and this for a period of more than one
months, until the complaint is lodged with the Data Protection Authority, must
be considered a long-term violation of the obligation of a
transparent communication in the context of the exercise of the rights of the data subject,
in accordance with Article 12(1) GDPR. Furthermore, the defendant did not
complied with the deadline set out in Article 12(3) of the GDPR; it should be noted that
until the presentation of the conclusions in the present case, the complainant had not received any
satisfactory response to his request for access.
 

73. Furthermore, the Litigation Division underlines the fact that the defendant had already indicated the
August 26, 2019 that the processing was potentially unlawful but that the complainant still has
received a direct marketing email on September 12, 2019. This indicates that the duration of the
violation is longer than if the defendant had implemented technical measures
effective organizational and organizational measures to put an end to the unlawful processing after the rectification
personal data, in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of the GDPR.
 
d) Conclusion
 

74. All the elements set out above justify an effective, proportionate and
dissuasive, as referred to in Article 83 of the GDPR, taking into account the assessment criteria that it
contains, up to an amount of 10,000 euros. The Litigation Chamber emphasizes
that in the present case, the other criteria of Article 83, paragraph 2 of the GDPR are not of such a nature
to give rise to an administrative fine other than that set by the Litigation Chamber
in the context of this decision.

 

4. Anonymization or pseudonymization of the Litigation Chamber's decision when

of the publication

 
75. The Litigation Division takes note of the defendant's request to proceed with a
anonymization as complete as possible of the decision by the Litigation Chamber if it
is published. The defendant specifies that the presence of elements which could lead to its
identification in the press or in any other way may give rise to an "infringement
irreparable to reputation".

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 15/16

76. The Litigation Chamber emphasizes that it is very important - in the context of knowledge
data protection, data protection awareness and practical interpretation
of this notion - to communicate in a sufficiently transparent manner on its activities and
to make its decisions known to the public. Therefore, it is important that the Litigation Chamber
publishes as many decisions as possible, if not all of the decisions it makes.
This possibility is provided for by the national legislator in Article 95, § 1, 8° and in Article 100,
§ 1, 16° of the LCA.
 

77. The publication of the decision serves to draw the controller's attention to its
responsibility. This responsibility is central to the GDPR. We can
find that the negative perception that goes with not removing the name
of a party, and more specifically the name of the defending party, in a published decision
is a consequence of the rarity of the cases in which one does not carry out the deletion
of the name of the defendant. In fact, the decision to delete the names of the parties
falls within the discretionary assessment of the Litigation Chamber - the non-deletion of
names is not an additional penalty.
 

78. Although the Litigation Division decides on a discretionary basis in each of its
records whether or not to pseudonymize the decision, it seems in this case that
the defendant's request can be granted, at any rate as regards the
pseudonymization for publication. The risk of reputational damage and
the possible importance of this constitute elements that the Litigation Chamber
may take into consideration in its reflection as to whether or not to remove certain
identifiers, but the Litigation Chamber is not obliged to include in its decision
a specific rationale for this decision.
 

79. Given the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the Chamber
Litigation, this decision is published on the website of the Protection Authority
Datas. However, it is not necessary for this purpose that the identification data of the
parties are communicated directly.

 
 

 

Decision on the merits 33/2020 - 16/16

FOR THESE REASONS,
 
the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation:

-

-

-

-

to order the defendant, in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 2, c) of the GDPR
and in article 100, § 1, 6° of the LCA, to fully respond to the request for access
of the complainant, pursuant to Article 15, juncto Article 12 of the GDPR within one
months after notification of this decision;
to order the defendant, in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 2, d) of the GDPR
and in article 100, § 1, 9° of the LCA, to immediately put the processing of data
of a personal nature in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, in accordance with the
Articles 5 and 6 of the GDPR;
to call the defendant to order, in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 2, b)
of the GDPR and Article 100, § 1, 5° of the LCA, for not having sufficiently facilitated
the exercise of the right of access by the complainant and having responded late to this request,
in accordance with Article 15, juncto Article 12 of the GDPR;
to impose on the defendant, in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 1, i) juncto
Article 83 of the GDPR and Article 100, § 1, 13° of the LCA, a fine of
10,000 euros for violations of articles 5, 6 and 12 juncto article 15 of the GDPR.

 
Under article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed within a period of
thirty days, from the notification, to the Court of Markets, with the Authority for the Protection of
given as defendant.
 
 
 
(Sr.) Hielke Hijmans
President of the Litigation Chamber

