Commission Regulation No. 7/2020 of April 3, 2020
National Data Protection Authority setting the amount
and the terms and conditions for the payment of royalties within the framework
its powers of authorization and consultation.

 

 
 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 relating
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter
after: “the GDPR”);
 
Having regard to the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the protection
data and the general data protection regime (hereinafter: “the Law”);
 
Considering that Article 58(3) of the GDPR grants each supervisory authority
a series of authorizing powers and advisory powers;
 
Considering that letters e), f), h) and j) of Article 58, paragraph 3, of the GDPR provide more
specifically that each supervisory authority has the power to approve supervisory bodies.
certification pursuant to Article 43 of the GDPR, to issue certifications and to approve
certification criteria in accordance with Article 42(5) of the GDPR, to authorize
the contractual clauses referred to in article 46, paragraph 3, letter a) of the GDPR, as well as
to approve binding corporate rules pursuant to Article 47 of the GDPR;
 
Considering that Article 47 of the Law provides that the National Commission for the Protection
(hereinafter: “the CNPD”) may impose fees as part of its
powers of authorization and consultation available to it under said Article 58,
paragraph 3, letters e), f), h) and j) of the GDPR and that a regulation of the CNPD determines the
amount and terms of payment of royalties;
 
Considering Articles 29, 30, 31 and 32 of the Commission's Rules of Procedure
National Data Protection Authority adopted by Decision No. 3AD/2020 dated 22
January 2020;
 
The National Commission for Data Protection, comprising four Commissioners and
deliberating unanimously:
 

Stopped :

 

 
Art. 1st. - Royalties
 
The fees to be paid under this Regulation are collected within the framework of the
powers of authorization and consultation of the CNPD under Article 58, paragraph 3,
letters e), f), h) and j) of the GDPR and article 47 of the Law.
 
The fees determined by these regulations are due without prejudice to
the outcome of the authorization procedure or the advisory procedure before the CNPD.
 
 
 
 
 

National Data Protection Commission

 

Regulation No. 7/2020 of April 3, 2020 setting the amount and terms of payment of

royalties within the framework of its powers of authorization and consultation.


 
 
 
Art. 2. – Persons subject to the payment of royalties
 
Certification bodies, owners of certification schemes,
controllers and processors, as well as groups of companies having
recourse to the powers of authorization and the advisory powers of the CNPD in accordance with
article 58, paragraph 3, letters e), f), h) and j) of the GDPR, are subject to the payment of
royalties as determined by these regulations.
 
 
Art. 3. – Approval of certification bodies
 
For any certification body established on Luxembourg territory wishing to be
approved by the CNPD in application of article 43 of the GDPR and on the basis of the approval criteria
published by the CNPD, the amount of the fee to be paid to the CNPD depends on the stage of the
accreditation procedure. It is fixed:
 

 €1,000 for the analysis of the request for prior approval resulting in an opinion

prior to the CNPD;

 €4,000 for the full audit related to the application for approval or the application for
additional criteria resulting in an initial audit report or an audit report for
additional CNPD criteria;

 €500 for issuing the CNPD approval certificate and the right to use the

certificate ;

 €500 for annual surveillance audits resulting in an audit report of

CNPD monitoring;

 €3,000 for renewal audits, required every 5 years and resulting in a

CNPD renewal audit report.
 
 

Art. 4. – Approval of certification criteria
 
For any owner of a certification system who submits for approval to the CNPD
certification criteria in accordance with Article 42(5) of the GDPR, the amount of the
fee to be paid to the CNPD depends on the stage of the approval procedure. She is
fixed:
 

 €1,000 for the analysis of the application for preliminary adoption submitted through
a form made available on the CNPD website and resulting in an opinion
prerequisite of CNPD admissibility;

 €1,000 per analysis cycle lasting 30 days for the analysis of the request
final adoption of the certification criteria resulting in an evaluation report
CNPD criteria;

 €1,000 for monitoring by the CNPD of the procedure for the formal adoption of the criteria

certification at the national level resulting in an adoption certificate from the CNPD;

 €3,000 for monitoring by the CNPD of the procedure at European level resulting in

a European data protection label.

 
 

 

National Data Protection Commission

 

 

 

Regulation No. 7/2020 of April 3, 2020 setting the amount and terms of payment of

royalties within the framework of its powers of authorization and consultation.

2/3


 
 
 
 
Art. 5. – Authorization of contractual clauses
 
For any data controller or subcontractor, established on Luxembourg territory,
who submits contractual clauses to the CNPD for authorization in accordance with Article
46, paragraph 3, letter a) of the GDPR, the amount of the fee to be paid to the CNPD is fixed
at €1,500.
 
 
Art. 6. – Approval of Binding Corporate Rules
 
For any group of companies established on Luxembourg territory, which submits for
approval of the corporate rules binding on the CNPD pursuant to Article 47 of the
GDPR, the amount of the fee to be paid to the CNPD is set at €1,500.
 
 
Art. 7. – Methods of payment
 
(a) All royalties are due and payable as of right on the day of receipt of the notice of
payment of the CNPD by the subject person.
 
(b) The fee due must be paid into one of the accounts indicated for this purpose by the CNPD.
The CNPD only processes the file in question after receiving a copy of the proof of
payment.
 
(c) Depending on the consumer price index, the CNPD reserves the right to adapt
the amounts of the royalties by an amendment to this regulation.
 
 
Thus adopted in Esch-sur-Alzette on April 3, 2020.
 
 
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
 
 

 
 
 
Tine A. Larsen
  President

 
 
 
Thierry Lallemang
    Commissioner

 
 
 
    Christopher Buschman
            Commissioner

 
 
 
         Marc Lemmer
          Commissioner

 

 

National Data Protection Commission

 

 

 

Regulation No. 7/2020 of April 3, 2020 setting the amount and terms of payment of

royalties within the framework of its powers of authorization and consultation.

3/3

