18.04.2022
Penalty for GDPR violation

The National Supervisory Authority completed, in March 2022, an investigation at the operator IKEA Romania S.R.L. and found a violation of the provisions of art. 12 para. (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
As such, the operator was penalized with a fine of 4,949 lei (the equivalent of 1,000 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of a complaint in which the person concerned complained that he had contacted the operator in order to delete a user account.
During the investigation, it emerged that the person concerned, through repeated requests, exercised his right to delete his personal data from an Ikea user account, created on the basis of an e-mail address.
The National Supervisory Authority found that the operator IKEA Romania S.R.L. did not prove that it sent within the legal term a response to the requests through which the data subject exercised the right to deletion provided for by art. 17 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which constitutes a violation of the provisions of art. 12 para. (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
By art. 12 para. (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation establishes:
"The operator provides the data subject with information on the actions taken following a request pursuant to articles 15-22, without undue delay and in any case within one month at the latest from receiving the request. This period may be extended by two months when necessary, taking into account the complexity and number of applications. The operator informs the data subject of any such extension, within one month of receiving the request, also presenting the reasons for the delay. Where the data subject submits a request in electronic format, the information shall be provided in electronic format where possible, unless the data subject requests a different format."
At the same time, during the investigation, the operator was also given the corrective measure to take the necessary measures in order to respect, in all cases, the rights of the data subjects provided by the General Data Protection Regulation.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.