OFFICE FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Lt. Col. Sochora 27, 170 00 Prague 7
tel .: 234 665 111, fax: 234 665 444
posta@uoou.cz, www.uoou.cz

* UOOUX00CYH7V *

 
 
Ref. UOOU-06831 / 16-239

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

DECISION

 
Chairwoman of the Office for Personal Data Protection as an appellate body competent pursuant to § 2, § 29
and § 32 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data and on the amendment of certain acts, according to
§ 10 and § 152 paragraph 2 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, and according to § 10 paragraph 1 letter a) and § 12
paragraph 1 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., on certain information society services and on change
certain laws, decided on 14 December 2018 pursuant to § 152 para. b) of the Administrative Procedure Code
thus:
 
Appeal filed by the accused, the company

  based

, against the decision of the Office for Personal Data Protection
Ref. UOOU-06831 / 16-228 of 20 August 2018, is rejected and the contested decision is upheld
confirms.

 

Justification

 

Proceedings on suspicion of committing an offense pursuant to § 11 par. 1 let. a), c) and d) of the Act
No. 480/2004 Coll., on certain information society services and on the amendment of certain acts in
wording effective as of 30 June 2017 (hereinafter referred to as “Act No. 480/2004 Coll.”)
accused, companies

, with its registered office at J

(hereinafter referred to as the “accused”) was initiated by order no. UOOU-06831 / 16-215 of
April 3, 2018. The basis for initiating the proceedings was the protocol on control ref. UOOU-06831 / 16-209
of 13 November 2017, acquired pursuant to Act No. 255/2012 Coll., on Inspection (Inspection Rules),
inspector of the Office for Personal Data Protection Ing. Josef Vacula, including the file
material collected during the inspection. However, the accused filed against the order
proper resistance.

 

Subsequently issued decision no. UOOU-06831 / 16-228 of 20 August 2018 (hereinafter referred to as
"Decision"), however, found the Office for Personal Data Protection (hereinafter "the Office") to be indicted
again guilty of committing an offense under § 11 para. a) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll.,
as it should repeatedly distribute unsolicited electronic addresses specified in the statement
commercial communication in the sense of § 2 letter f) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll. The accused was further found

also guilty of committing offenses pursuant to § 11 par. 1 let. c) and d) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., because
commercial communications concealed or concealed the identity of the sender and were sent without valid
addresses enabling direct and effective unsubscription from the mailing. For the above offenses was
the accused was fined a total of CZK 1,400,000.
 
A proper appeal was filed against the decision within the statutory time limit. In the opinion of the accused, it should have happened
in particular to an error of law and procedural irregularities, and therefore suggested that
the contested decision was annulled in its entirety and remanded.
The accused refused to fulfill the facts of the offense and considers that she was not against her
proceeded in accordance with § 6 paragraph 3 of Act No 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code (note: the accused had
probably in mind § 6 paragraph 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code). She further stated that the administrative body of the first instance had
apply Act No. 250/2016 Coll., on liability for misdemeanors and proceedings against them, in full,
as it has not been proven that the conditions of imputability pursuant to Section 20 above have been met
of the law, and the accused could therefore not be found guilty in accordance with the wording of the law.
The retroactive application of the law that was to be enforced would thus work in favor of the offender.
In support of its view that the defendant has failed to prove its facts, the defendant states, first of all, that
It is not possible to determine who sent unsolicited commercial communications, taking decisions in a relationship
in addition to the conclusions drawn from the analysis of e-mail headers
unreviewable. As the accused further states, the administrative body of the first instance also resigned from
Demonstration of an increase in sales accused as a result of sending commercial communications and therefore not possible
considered to promote e-commerce
. Further accused
in the appeal, it submits that the commercial communications could have been sent on the initiative
 considers that the connection between this company and the accused
company
cannot be found in
  for no person by that name
she was not accused by the managing director. Finally, the defendant further argues that it is objective
The liability of the accused in the event of distribution of commercial communications affiliate partners considers
completely absurd, the administrative body of the first instance proceeded in violation of the principle
presumption of innocence and it is not clear from the grounds of the decision how the complainants
who is the disseminator of commercial communications, when this is not evident to this day.
 
The appellate body reviewed the decision in its entirety, including the previous process
its release.
 
The appellate body states, first of all, that the dissemination of commercial communications is permitted only
provided by law on the basis of a valid legal title, which may be consent
according to § 7 paragraph 2 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll. or customer relationship according to § 7 paragraph 3 of the same Act.
It is the disseminator's responsibility to have a legal title and to prove its existence. When
commercial communications sent from
  was an administrative body
demonstrated without any reasonable doubt that the disseminator is charged.
The same can be deduced in the case of other addresses from which commercial communications were sent (see
further). Thus, the accused cannot be accused of being treated in breach of duty
laid down in § 6 para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code, ie to burden the persons concerned as little as possible when
invited to prove the existence of a legal title for dissemination. Addressees of commercial communications in
In their complaints, they agreed that the accused had not given their consent and that they were not its customers either.
At the same time, it is logical that they considered the disseminator to be the one whose goods were commercial communications
promoted.
 

, Mr.

2/5

At the same time, the legislator himself assumes that the disseminator can disseminate commercial communications not only on his own
forces, but also through another entity. According to the provisions of § 7 par. b) of the Act
No. 480/2004 Coll. a contrario, each commercial communication must contain information about the consignor,
on whose behalf the communication takes place, resp. in whose favor the commercial communication is disseminated.
Only such an interpretation is, in the view of the Appellate Body, Euroconform and in line with the purpose
of the law. As the title of Directive 2002/58 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council
on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector
also referred to as the "Directive"), as well as its preamble, this Directive protects the privacy of individuals and complements others
personal data protection regulations. The reason for its adoption was mainly special increased
privacy risks that are undoubtedly associated with the use of the Internet and electronic
means of communication. Due to the importance of the protected interest and a very high level
The threat of the directive sets a high level of protection, including that among the protected
entities also includes legal entities, in contrast to the standard regulation of personal data protection.
At the same time, it must be emphasized that privacy is not the only protected public interest.
The volume of commercial communications can cause network problems in some cases
electronic communications and terminal equipment. It should also be emphasized that with regard to
increasingly easy to disseminate commercial communications in large volumes and with increasingly extensive annexes
their acceptance is often associated with an ever-increasing burden of time as well as financial. Reality,
that the meaning of the directive and therefore of Act No. 480/2004 Coll. is to protect addressees from subjects,
in whose favor the commercial communication is disseminated, resp. that this entity is the consignor
also from Article 13 (4) of the Directive. Czech version of the last mentioned provision in principle
corresponds to the above-cited § 7 par. 4 let. b) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll. Maybe still
however, this conclusion is clearer from the wording of the English version of the Directive, where Article 13 (4)
provides: “In any event, the practice of sending electronic mail for the purposes of direct marketing
disguising or concealing the identity of the sender on whose behalf the communication is
A concentration on whose behalf can also be translated in this context as
on whose behalf or for whose benefit the communication takes place. A similar situation follows from Art. b)
Directive 2000/31 / EC (Electronic Commerce Directive), according to which “natural or legal
the person to whom the commercial communication is made must be clearly identifiable. "
 
The defendant testifies in favor of the conclusion
and the systematics and purpose of the law
No. 480/2004 Coll. The provisions of § 7 and § 11 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll. it is necessary to perceive not
separately, but in the context of especially Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data
and amending certain laws. As is clear from the submitted file documentation, commercial
notices should not be addressed exclusively to legal persons, and therefore in the light of the judgment
Of the Supreme Administrative Court ref. 9 As 34 / 2008-68 is required for electronic details
contact as personal data. If a person entrusts another entity with the promotion of its products
or services through commercial communications, the customer determines the purpose,
as well as the means of personal data processing, ergo meets the definition of a personal data controller.
Because it is primarily the administrator's responsibility to ensure that the processing is consistent
legal conditions, it is the administrator who has the main responsibility for any
violation of the law.
 
One of the key principles of personal data protection, namely law, can be pointed out
the data subject to access the information. This right is applicable in particular to the administrator
personal data, as he is responsible for the lawfulness of the processing and for the person who disposes of it
personal data of a particular entity and therefore it is necessary to be aware of the identity of the controller.

3/5

This is the only way to invoke the right to access, change or destroy personal data. From this
For this reason, the legislator enshrined the obligation to state identity in every commercial communication
the sender - the person for whose benefit the commercial communication is disseminated. If possible by contract
transfer responsibility for the illegal dissemination of commercial communications to another entity, including
entities outside the local jurisdiction of state authorities, the above rights and principles of protection
personal data, as well as privacy in the general sense, would be completely annulled, for
the current profit of the sender of the business message that initiated the factual mailing process.
In situations where Directive No. 2002/58 / EC, resp. Act No. 480/2004 Coll. were accepted just for
in order to increase the security and protection of personal data, taking into account the specific risks of the Internet
and electronic communications, such a conclusion would be absurd and completely against the meaning of presumption
a reasonable legislator who intended to ensure the highest possible level of protection.
 
It is then necessary to add to the whole procedure that § 11 par. 1 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll. is constructed on
on the basis of strict liability, ie liability for the legal situation, when in relation to the legal
there is no need to examine the person's fault in the illegal situation. That's why
and in order to fulfill the will of the legislator, ie to protect privacy as far as possible, it is necessary
also consider as disseminators of commercial communications those persons who have granted the factual dispatch
instruction, order, entered into a contract, or otherwise de facto sending a commercial message
initiated. Therefore, it is necessary for disseminators of commercial communications, whether it be the contracting authority
(customer) or de facto shippers, have always sufficiently checked whether the addressees of the business
messages have given their consent for such sending, resp. in general, whether the distribution is lawful
way. The defendant's view that she was approached during the proceedings through the presumption of presumption
guilt must therefore be rejected. Based on the same argumentation, the opinion must also be rejected
on non-compliance with the imputability of the conduct and the appellate body therefore concluded that the administrative body
first instance applied the relevant legislation.
 
As regards the objection of failure to demonstrate a real increase in sales of the goods alleged as a result
commercial communications, it must be stated that there is no evidence to that effect
provided that the factual substance of the offense is fulfilled pursuant to § 11 par. 1 let. a) of the Act
No. 480/2004 Coll. Commercial communications must be in accordance with § 2 letter. f) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll.
primarily intended for direct or indirect support and is therefore sufficient if the administrative authority has demonstrated
first instance that the communications in question encouraged the defendants to visit their websites
and promoted her goods.
 
The accused cannot be convicted even in the alleged absence of justification, which the Office found out
from the analysis of the headers of the e-mails in question, and also in the objection that the domain names
are registered to untraceable entities. It follows from the context of the decision that the headers
e-mails, the data of the delivery, IP addresses and e-mail addresses, resp. domain,
of which the distribution actually took place. These data were subjected to further analysis, including their
comparison with the data found during the inspection at the company
 sp. UOOU-
10555/15, the synthesis of all information thus obtained by the administrative body of the first instance
reached the conclusions described in the contested decision. The identity of the entity in whose name it is
domain is registered, however, it represents only one of the partial indirect, resp. supporting
evidence, which in itself will in most cases not be a sufficient basis for determination
responsible entity and therefore in the presence of a number of other pieces of evidence which form a complete chain
logically linked circumstantial evidence of the dissemination of commercial communications by
accused, it is irrelevant to the proceedings whether these specific identities have been identified.

4/5

As for the identity of the graphics and text, it has not been proven solely in the relationship
to commercial communications sent by companies
, but also between the delivery
and commercial communications from other e-mail addresses.
from the address
Moreover, the interconnectedness between the company
with the accused was also sufficient
proven. Formalistic reference to an obvious writing error
a decision consisting of an diacritical mark in the name of the agent, even if it is also from the date of birth
and the Commercial Register obvious which person it is, cannot stand as an argument.
 
The appellate body therefore rejected the defendant's arguments. At the same time after a general review
Notes that no reason has been found to render the decision illegal;
and found no errors in the procedure of the administrative body of the first instance. Based
all of the above, the appellate body has ruled as stated in the operative part of this statement
decision.
 
Lessons learned:

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 (1) of the Act, this decision shall be challenged
No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, cannot be revoked.

 
 
Prague, December 14, 2018
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
For correctness of execution:

 

 

official stamp imprint

JUDr. Ivana Janů, v. R.

chairwoman

5/5

