1/22

 File No.: PS/00206/2022

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On January 30, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against BANKINTER, S.A.
(hereinafter the claimed party). Once the initiation agreement has been notified and after analyzing the
allegations presented, on March 21, 2023, the proposal for
resolution which is transcribed below:

<<

File No.: PS/00206/2022

PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) filed a claim with the
Netherlands data protection authority. The claim is directed against
BANKINTER, S.A. with NIF A28157360 (hereinafter, BANKINTER). The reasons in
on which the claim is based are as follows:

The complaining party exercised its right of access before BANKINTER, receiving
response dated February 4, 2019 indicating that it does not appear in their records
as a client or ex-client.

Along with the claim, provide:

- Copy of an email from the complaining party to privacidad@bankinter.com,
dated January 29, 2019, in which you attach your request for access to your data
personal in PDF.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/22

- Copy of an email from privacidad@bankinter.com to the part
claimant, dated January 31, 2019, in which he was informed that the
transferred your request to the corresponding department, from which you will be given
response fulfilled within the time frame and manner established.

- Copy of an email from the complaining party to privacidad@bankinter.com,
dated February 12, 2019, in which it reports: "Good afternoon, Received your
response by mail today (attached), denying that he has any
product contracted with you, indicate that it is not true, since I have an account
open with you (***ACCOUNT.1). Attached document issued by you in
reference to this account. Therefore, please review your records again and proceed
with the request. All the best."

- Copy of an email from privacidad@bankinter.com to the complaining party,
dated February 14, 2019, in which you are informed: "We forwarded your request to the
corresponding department, from which you will be given a full response in the
term and manner established.

- Copy of a BANKINTER document, dated September 2017, addressed to the
complaining party, in which the information related to its operations with
Bankinter, necessary to complete your corresponding tax return
to the fiscal year of 2016, in which it appears that the complaining party is the account holder
number ***ACCOUNT.1.

- Copy of a document signed by the claimant, dated January 29,
2019, in which he requests BANKINTER access to his personal data.

- Copy of a BANKINTER document, dated February 4, 2019, addressed to the
complaining party, in which they are informed that they cannot attend to their request for
access since your data does not appear in your records as a client or ex-client of the
entity.

SECOND: Through the "Internal Market Information System" (hereinafter
IMI), regulated by Regulation (EU) No. 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of October 25, 2012 (IMI Regulation), whose objective is to promote the
cross-border administrative cooperation, mutual assistance between States
members and the exchange of information, as of February 7, 2020, had input
in this Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) the aforementioned claim. He
transfer of this claim to the AEPD is carried out in accordance with the provisions
in article 56 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of Physical Persons in what
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data
(hereinafter, GDPR), taking into account its cross-border nature and that this
Agency is competent to act as main control authority, given that
BANKINTER has its registered office and sole establishment in Spain.

According to the information incorporated into the IMI System, in accordance with the
established in article 60 of the GDPR, acts as a "control authority
data subject”, in addition to the Dutch data protection authority, the
Portuguese authority. The latter under article 4.22 of the GDPR, given that the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/22

Data subjects residing in this country are likely to be substantially
affected by the treatment object of this procedure.

THIRD: On July 3, 2020, in accordance with article 64.3 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

In response to a request for information from this Agency, on April 30,
2020, BANKINTER representatives state that they have procedures
and adequate mechanisms to comply with the processing of the rights of
Data protection of the interested parties. They provide a copy of the procedure.

In relation to the reason why the response provided to the complaining party as
consequence of his exercise of the right of access in which there was no information
regarding the account ***ACCOUNT.1, the representatives of the entity indicate that they
there was a specific error in the application of the Rights Procedure. This made
said account is not located and identified as corresponding to the part
claimant, therefore Bankinter did not provide such information.

As of April 20, 2020, the error has been resolved, and an answer has been given
to the right of access of the complaining party in full. representatives
of the entity provide a copy of the email sent to the complaining party with the
information requested in an encrypted attached document, whose key is (...).

FIFTH: On April 25, 2022, the Director of the AEPD declared the expiration of
of the proceedings as more than twelve months have elapsed from the date of
admission to processing of the claim, new investigation actions were opened
with the number AI/00170/2020, and these new actions included the
documentation in E/02670/2020.

SIXTH: On June 28, 2022, from the Subdirectorate General of Inspection
of Data of this Agency a screenshot was taken on the website
https://monitoriza.axesor.es/, relative to the size and volume of business of the company
BANKINTER S.A., in which there is no information on the last financial year
filed (2021), but listed as a group parent company, with a
share capital of €269,659,846.

SEVENTH: On July 1, 2022, the Director of the AEPD adopted a project
decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings. Following the established process
in article 60 of the GDPR, on July 5, 2022 it was transmitted through the IMI system
this draft decision and the authorities concerned were informed that they had

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/22

four weeks from that time to raise pertinent objections and
motivated. The processing period for this disciplinary procedure was
automatically suspended during these four weeks, in accordance with the
provided in article 64.4 of the LOPDGDD.

Within the period for this purpose, the control authorities concerned did not present
pertinent and reasoned objections in this regard, therefore it is considered that all the
authorities agree with said draft decision and are bound by
this, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of article 60 of the GDPR.

This draft decision was notified to BANKINTER in accordance with the regulations
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (LPACAP) on July 11, 2022, as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

EIGHTH: On January 30, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against BANKINTER, in order to
impose a fine of 1000 euros, in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64
of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of the
Article 15 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, in which it was indicated
He had a period of ten days to present allegations.

This start-up agreement, which was notified in accordance with the rules established in the
LPACAP by means of electronic notification, was not collected by BANKINTER within the
period of making available, understood as rejected in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 43.2 of the LPACAP dated February 12, 2023, as stated in the certificate
that works in the file.

NINTH: On February 24, 2023, BANKINTER filed a brief with
this Agency (request for a copy and sending a copy) in which you explain that you had
knowledge, through the Authorized Electronic Address (DEH), that the AEPD put
at the disposal of Bankinter S.A a notification with reference ***REFERENCE.1 and
matter "Opening Agreement" and that it is in a situation of
“Rejected”. But that, on this occasion, it had not been received by the AEPD
no notice communicating to Bankinter S.A, the provision of a notification
at the electronic headquarters Enabled electronic address (DEH) or at the Address
unique authorized electronic (DEHu), practice that is usual by the Agency.
Therefore, the reason for the rejection was due to the fact that Bankinter had not been aware of
that he had a notification in the Enabled Electronic Address. Therefore, he requested
that the aforementioned notification be sent again to Bankinter so that it could have
access to the content of the same and formulate the corresponding allegations and in its
case, propose the test that it deems pertinent.

On February 28, 2023, this Agency made Bankinter available to
through electronic means a copy of the initiation agreement of the present
sanctioning procedure, which was duly collected that same day, as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/22

TENTH: On March 9, 2023, this Agency received, on time and
form, letter from BANKINTER in which it made allegations regarding the start-up agreement in the
which, in short, stated that BANKINTER had acted without intent or fault and that
the sanction was not proportionate since there were mitigating factors that had not been
taken into account and that the aggravating circumstances considered in the initiation agreement should not
be such. Requested that this disciplinary proceeding be archived or,
secondarily, that a warning be addressed to him or, failing that, that he be
a minimum fine.

ELEVENTH: A list of documents in hand is attached as an annex.
The procedure.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On January 29, 2019, the claimant sends an email to
privacidad@bankinter.com, in which you attach your request for access to your data
personal in PDF.

SECOND: On January 31, 2019, the claimant receives an email
from the address privacidad@bankinter.com, in which he is informed that the
transferred your request to the corresponding department, from which you will be given
response fulfilled within the time frame and manner established.

THIRD: On February 4, 2019, BANKINTER sent a document to the party
claimant, in which they are informed that they cannot attend to their request for access since
that your data does not appear in your records as a client or ex-client of the entity.

FOURTH: On February 12, 2019, the claimant sends an email to
privacidad@bankinter.com, in which he reports: "Good afternoon, Received your
response by mail today (attached), denying that he has any
product contracted with you, indicate that it is not true, since I have an account
open with you (***ACCOUNT.1). Attached document issued by you in
reference to this account. Therefore, please review your records again and proceed
with the request. All the best."

Along with this email, the claimant provides a copy of a document
of BANKINTER, dated September 2017, addressed to the complaining party, in the
that they are sent the information related to their operations with Bankinter, necessary
to complete your tax return for the year 2016,
in which it appears that the claimant is the owner of the account number ***ACCOUNT.1.

FIFTH: On February 14, 2019, the claimant receives an email
from privacidad@bankinter.com, in which he is informed: "We forward your request to
corresponding department, from which you will be given a full response in the
term and manner established.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/22

SIXTH: On April 20, 2020, BANKINTER responded to the right of access of
the complaining party, by email sent to the complaining party with
your personal data by means of an encrypted attached document, whose key was (...).

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 and 60 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the GDPR, there is
carrying out personal data processing, since BANKINTER
carries out the collection and conservation of, among others, the following personal data of
natural persons: name and surname, address and email, among others
treatments.

BANKINTER carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller,
given that it is the one who determines the ends and means of such activity, by virtue of article
4.7 of the GDPR. In addition, it is a cross-border treatment, since
BANKINTER is established in Spain, although it provides services to other countries in the
European Union.

The GDPR provides, in its article 56.1, for cases of cross-border processing,
provided for in its article 4.23), in relation to the competence of the authority of
main control, that, without prejudice to the provisions of article 55, the authority of
control of the main establishment or of the only establishment of the person in charge or of the
The person in charge of the treatment will be competent to act as control authority
for the cross-border processing carried out by said controller or
commissioned in accordance with the procedure established in article 60. In the case
examined, as has been stated, BANKINTER has its only establishment in
Spain, so the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to
act as the main supervisory authority.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/22

For its part, the right of access to personal data is regulated in article 15
of the GDPR.

II

Allegations adduced

In relation to the allegations adduced to the agreement to initiate this
disciplinary procedure, we proceed to respond to them according to the order
exposed by BANKINTER:

1.- ABSENCE OF FAILURE AND FAULT IN BANKINTER'S ACTIONS

BANKINTER alleges that its response to the complaining party was due to an error
in consulting the requested information, which was only noticed when the AEPD
sent the information request to this entity.

And that the described incident –being clearly unfortunate– must be considered
as something punctual and isolated; something almost fortuitous that "escaped" the measures and resources
that Bankinter had for the management of the rights of the interested parties.

Indicates that:
(a) BANKINTER had and has appropriate technical and organizational measures
to respond to the rights of the interested parties under the strictest respect for the
GDPR, its principles and obligations. In particular, in reply to the
Requirement the Rights Procedure was provided as Document No. 1.

BANKINTER affirms that this procedure is reputedly effective. and not in vain
Bankinter is a financial institution that receives an average of more than 44 requests for
rights per month (reaching 83 requests in January and February 2023). However,
and even taking into account the huge number of requests that the entity has been
receiving and managing since 2018, only twelve have resulted in proceedings before
the AEPD. It is worth highlighting even more that, except for the case at hand, the rest have
ended either in the file of proceedings or in the inadmissibility of the claim for the
AEPD. These figures, in his opinion, do nothing more than show how
Bankinter's procedures and the entity's great diligence are robust.

In any case, he claims that

(b) Bankinter had and still has a specialized department that is in charge of
respond to all requests for rights of interested parties. have a
department that is in charge only of the answers to the rights
guarantees, in his opinion, that they are answered in a timely manner. Said department works
hand in hand with legal advice for those non-operative issues.

(c) Bankinter alleges that there is absolute traceability of the exercise of rights by
part of the stakeholders. All requests received through any
channel are managed through a computer program for this purpose and there is also
a procedure in place to ensure proper management of rights
exercised.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/22

(d) It also indicates that all Bankinter employees have to take a course
of obligatory compliance in terms of data protection in which, among others and to
the effects of the case at hand, the importance of attending to
correctly and on time the requests for data protection rights.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that it is not the subject of this procedure
evaluate the procedure that BANKINTER may have implemented for care
of the exercise of rights, but it is a matter of evaluating whether BANKINTER gave due
response to the request to exercise the right of access of the complaining party in
matter, in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.

1.5. However, BANKINTER alleges that, as is the case, in general, with any
procedure; The measures and controls described, while robust, are not
infallible, being the event (we insist, isolated and punctual) occurred with the party
claimant, proof and consequence thereof.

1.6. In this regard, and as a complement to what has been indicated, it warns and emphasizes that the
procedures that Bankinter has in place to minimize the consequences of errors
that, as in the case at hand, can occur, presenting solutions
them quickly and efficiently. Thus, in the present case, even in full
COVID-19 pandemic, Bankinter, on April 20, 2020, responded and satisfied the
right of the complaining party as soon as he became aware of the situation after receiving
the AEPD Requirement.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that responding to the request to exercise
right of access to the complaining party is nothing other than complying with the
provided by the GDPR.

1.7. A clearly isolated and punctual error (there is no better proof of this than the fact
that no claims have been resubmitted in this regard or indicating this
type of error) such as the one that occurred in the case at hand – which, no matter how much
protocol, review, manage and automate is impossible to avoid absolutely – no
must deny the adequate diligence that, in effect, Bankinter has before the exercise of
rights by the interested parties, which is measured and confirmed by their habitual behavior
and daily and by the existence of policies, controls and reaction capacity as the
above indicated.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that the fact that there were no more
claims in this regard or "indicating this type of error" does not conclude a proof of
that it is "a clearly isolated and specific error", although it is not the subject of the
present proceeding evaluate more than if in the case of the complaining party
BANKINTER duly responded in a timely manner to the request to exercise
right of access in question.

1.8. BANKITER alleges that the adequate contextualization of the event that occurred with the
complaining party and its appreciation as an isolated error with respect to the
procedures and controls implemented by Bankinter is not a trivial matter,
since it allows disassociating such an event from culpable conduct on the part of
Bankinter, without which there can be no sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/22

1.9. In fact, as recognized by established jurisprudence, the principles
inspiring criminal order are applicable, with certain nuances, to the law
sanctioning administrative (for all, the Constitutional Court Judgment
–"STC"– no. 18/1981). The principle of guilt also applies in matters of
administrative offenses and their sanctioning regime as it is a
manifestation of the ius puniendi of the State. In this sense, it is inadmissible in
our legal system a regime of strict liability or without fault (STC
no. 76/1990).

In this regard, the art. 28.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime
of the Public Sector ("LRJSP"), expressly indicates that:

"Only may be penalized for acts constituting an administrative offense those
physical and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous patrimonies, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt".

In other words, without proven intent or negligence, one cannot be responsible for an infraction.

1.10. BANKINTER alleges that it could perhaps be argued that it had to be negligent
because, otherwise, the mistake that in turn caused the error would not have been made.
inadequate attention to the right of the complaining party. However, understand that
argument should also be rejected as not acceptable in our law
sanctioning.

1.11. Indeed, a specific and extraordinary error (as has occurred in the case that
occupies) does not allow deducing by itself the existence of culpable behavior. It
would suppose the definitive objectification of guilt, where the result is equivalent to the element
subjective (structure proscribed in our sanctioning law –criminal or
administrative).

1.12. In these terms, the National Court has ruled repeatedly
sentences: an isolated error cannot give rise by itself to responsibility when
there is no fraud or guilt and the pertinent diligence has been acted upon. For all, the
Judgment of the National Court of December 23, 2013 (Rec. 341/2012) (which,
In addition, it is cited by the AEPD itself in numerous resolutions in which it applies
this doctrine –for example, the relapses in files E/05498/2017,
E/06654/2017 or E/00878/2018 –) determines in this regard that:

"The issue, therefore, must be resolved in accordance with the principles of law
punitive given that mere human error cannot give rise, by itself (and especially
especially when it occurs in isolation), to the attribution of consequences
sanctioning; because, to do so, it would incur a system of responsibility
objectively prohibited by our constitutional order.

In the field of protection of personal data, so that this error
may be relevant for punitive purposes, it must be a consequence -or be

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/22

made possible - by the absence of previous and adequate control procedures
aimed at its avoidance.

Only in this way will a factor of guilt appear in the company, assignable to the
imprudence (or "simple non-observance") due to the lack of articulation of protocols or
of security procedures. But these shortcomings must be investigated
and proof by the sanctioning administrative body (to which the burden rests
of its realization in destruction of the presumption of innocence).
(…)

Well, in the present case nothing of all this is said by the resolution
sanctioning, not serving either, for these purposes, the conclusion that, if
the error occurred, it is because the security protocols were not established or were
insufficient. This would be a false and conflicting conclusion with the fallible dimension
human.

It is not, then, a matter of guaranteeing the absence of errors through punitive law
but rather to articulate procedures to prevent them and also, later, to sanction if
Those protocols are not established or if they are insufficiently established"

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that this case is not an
punctual error or an isolated error, which in itself gives rise to liability without
there was fraud or fault on the part of BANKINTER.

Deny the concurrence of negligent action by BANKINTER
would be equivalent to acknowledging that his conduct -by action or omission- has been diligent.
Obviously, this perspective of the facts is not shared, since it has been
a proven lack of due diligence. A great company that performs
habitual processing of personal data of its clients, such as BANKINTER, must
exercise extreme care in fulfilling their obligations in terms of protection
of data, as established by jurisprudence. It is very illustrative, the SAN of 17
October 2007 (rec. 63/2006), assuming that these are entities whose
activity involves continuous processing of customer data, indicates that "...the
The Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence whenever
disregards a legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not behave
with the due diligence. And in assessing the degree of diligence, consideration must be given
especially the professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case
now examined, when the appellant's activity is of constant and abundant
handling of personal data
 
 must insist on the rigor and exquisite care
 
for complying with the legal provisions in this regard".

 

In the present case, the complaining party sent a first email on the 29th of
January 2019 requesting access to your personal data. BANKINTER replied
that he could not provide such data because he did not count as a client or ex-client of the
bank.

However, the complaining party sent a second email on February 12
of 2019 indicating to the bank that it was a customer and attached a series of
documentation proving such situation. And this second email doesn't
received a response from the bank.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/22

In other words, the complaining party contacted the bank again so that it could
correct the response provided at first, but the bank did not give due
treatment of this request, not even once the complaining party provides the
corresponding documentation so that the bank could rectify such situation.

The fact that BANKINTER had not duly responded to the complaining party
once he contacts the bank again to get him out of his mistake on his first
response, itself proves the lack of due diligence that might be expected
of a bank of the category of BANKINTER, which continuously carries out processing
personal data of its customers.

1.13. BANKINTER alleges that the Agency itself has filed complaints based on
this fact, a specific error cannot be equivalent to a culpable behavior of the
that derives administrative responsibility. As an example, the file resolution of
proceedings of procedure E/06894/2020, where the AEPD acknowledges that:

"It is proven that the action of the defendant as the entity responsible for the
treatment, although it incurred in a breach of the provisions of the regulations of
data protection by including the address of the notified person, which was due to a
specific error, it has already implemented the necessary measures so that they do not return to
occurrence of the events that are the subject of this claim."

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that procedure E/06894/2020 deals with
of a substantially different assumption, since it is not even a question of a
exercise of rights but of an unauthorized dissemination of personal data. In
said procedure, it was decided to file the proceedings based on the fact that it was
of a specific error that was corrected as soon as it became known and that
Measures were put in place to prevent a similar situation from happening again.
both assumptions that do not occur in the present case since the bank did not give
due response to the complaining party as soon as it was informed that it was
client and they had to provide them with the data they had, nor has it been accredited
that the bank had taken steps to prevent a similar situation from occurring
repeat in the future.

1.14. In addition, BANKINTER alleges that as soon as it became aware of the error, it proceeded
to resolve it and to give access to the complaining party to the requested data, demonstrating
that it had adequate mechanisms to effectively resolve an incident
like the one that happened All this cannot be ignored by the AEPD when analyzing the
culpability (actually, its absence) of Bankinter in the case at hand.

In this regard, this Agency reiterates that BANKINTER was notified of its error by the
complaining party in his email dated February 12, 2019, in which
not only stated that he was a client, but also provided the relevant documentation
to prove such situation, and thus be able to obtain access to your data, as
I had previously requested, but this email was not duly answered. But
that access to the data of the complaining party was given once this Agency
required BANKINTER to provide information on this matter.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/22

1.15. BANKINTER alleges that the AEPD itself has taken into account this type of
circumstances in resolutions such as the one issued in file PS/00019/2021, in the
that absence of guilt is appreciated as detailed below:

"In the present case, it is clear that the defendant once learned of the
errors that were occurring in the data crossing with the Robinson list of
Adigital, acted with due diligence, correcting the error detected by sending the
dated 02/5/2020 a new list corrected to the one investigated and incorporating into its
internal listing of the numbering object of the claim, henceforth ceasing the
calls to the claimant. Consequently, it is not appreciated by the investigated the
volitional element of guilt in the initially charged conduct."

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that procedure PS/00019/2021 deals with
of a substantially different assumption, since it is not even a question of a
exercise of rights but of making advertising calls once the
exercised the right of opposition, nor is it an infringement of the GDPR but of the Law
9/2014, of May 9, General of Telecommunications. In this procedure, it
decided to file the proceedings based on the fact that the error in the data crossing with the
Adigital's Robinson listing was due to a specific error in the filtering system of
numberings with the Robinson list of Adigital, there being no guilt in his
behavior, since it was due to a change in the filtering system of
Robinson numbers of Adigital during the period between the year 2020
and February 2021 beyond their control, since the one claimed, before knowing the
incidence in the downloads of the Robinson list of Adigital, proceeded to correct
diligently that error, as can be deduced from the chronology of the events and the
content of the administrative file, reason for which the conduct initially
accused to the defendant lacks volitional element of guilt as it results as
consequence of someone else's error and consequently, the one now investigated lacks
responsibility for the facts initially charged.

However, in the present case, it is not an error resulting from someone else's change.
to the will of BANKINTER nor has BANKINTER acted with due
due diligence, having not given a due response to the request of the
complaining party not even when the latter had provided the information regarding
that he was a customer.

1.16. BANKINTER alleges that, in other proceedings, such as E/06746/2020, the
AEPD has archived the actions for having the denounced reasonable measures to
avoid errors and act diligently to update them when the entity becomes aware of
which were not enough:

"From the investigation actions it can be deduced that (...) it had measures
preventive technical and organizational measures in order to avoid this type of incident but, without
However, the incident now analyzed occurred.
(…)
the investigated entity had reasonable technical and organizational measures in place to
avoid this type of incidence and that, when they are insufficient, have been updated accordingly.
diligent manner."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/22

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that procedure E/06746/2020 deals with
of a substantially different assumption, since it is not even a question of a
exercise of rights but a personal data breach. in said
procedure, it was decided to file the proceedings based on the fact that the entity
investigated had reasonable technical and organizational measures in place to avoid this
type of incident and which, as they are insufficient, have been updated regularly
diligent, which is not what has happened in the present case since the bank
acted with due diligence by not giving due response to the complaining party in
when he informed him that he was a client and they should provide him with the information that
they had, nor has it been proven that the bank had adopted measures
to prevent a similar situation from happening again in the future.

1.17. BANKINTER alleges that, since the inadequate attention to the right of access
of the complaining party was due to a specific error and not to a behavior
Bankinter's negligence, the AEPD must file this Procedure
Penalty for not concurring the element of guilt.

In this regard, this Agency reiterates that denying the concurrence of an action
negligence on the part of BANKINTER would be equivalent to recognizing that its conduct - for
act or omission - has been diligent. Obviously, this perspective is not shared
the facts, since the lack of due diligence has been proven. A great
company that routinely processes the personal data of its
customers, such as BANKINTER, must exercise extreme care in complying with their
data protection obligations, as established by jurisprudence.
The SAN of October 17, 2007 (rec. 63/2006) is very illustrative, based on
that these are entities whose activity entails the continuous treatment of
customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court has understood that there is
recklessness whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is, when the
offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the assessment of the degree of
diligence, the professionalism or not of the subject must be specially considered, and not
there is no doubt that, in the case now examined, when the activity of the appellant
is of constant and abundant handling of personal data
 
 must be insisted on
 
the rigor and exquisite care to comply with the legal provisions in this regard".

 

In the present case, the complaining party sent a first email on the 29th of
January 2019 requesting access to your personal data. BANKINTER replied
that he could not provide such data because he did not count as a client or ex-client of the
bank.

However, the complaining party sent a second email on February 12
of 2019 indicating to the bank that it was a customer and attached a series of
documentation proving such situation. And this second email doesn't
received a response from the bank.

In other words, the complaining party contacted the bank again so that it could
correct the response provided at first, but the bank did not give due
treatment of this request, not even once the complaining party provides the
corresponding documentation so that the bank could rectify such situation.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/22

The fact that BANKINTER had not duly responded to the complaining party
once he contacts the bank again to get him out of his mistake on his first
response, itself proves the lack of due diligence that might be expected
of a bank of the category of BANKINTER, which continuously carries out processing
personal data of its customers.

For all of the foregoing, this claim is dismissed.

2. - SUBSIDIARILY, REGARDING THE NECESSARY PROPORTIONALITY OF THE
SANCTIONS AND ITS GRADUATION. APPLICATION OF MITIGATION AND ABSENCE
OF AGGRAVANTS.

2.1. Subsidiarily to the First Allegation, in the unlikely event that
Bankinter is considered responsible for the infringement of article 15 when assessing
some type of fault (quod non), BANKINTER alleges that the Agency must take into
consideration of the following extenuating circumstances (which are ruled out in the Settlement Agreement
Start without stopping to analyze them), in order to determine the amount of the fine and the
imposition of the warning, in accordance with the provisions of arts. 83.2 GDPR and
76.2 of the LOPDGDD:

(a) The nature, seriousness and duration of the breach, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered (art. 83.2.a GDPR)

In the case at hand, the situation that occurred has implied a late response
before the exercise of the right of access of a single person due to a specific error.

It can only be understood that the provisions of art. 83.2.a GDPR apply to this case
as an extenuating circumstance.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that it is not that BANKINTER had
given a "late response" to the complaining party, but it is that the bank
had not provided a response of any kind to the complaining party and was only provided with the
access once the claim has been admitted for processing and after it has been
required to provide information on the case.

According to the Ruling of the National Court SAN 3432/2009, "the lack of
answering the access requests of the complainant and their delivery to another
company, configures the obstruction of the right of access that all affected
recognizes article 15 of the LOPD, and that article 44.3 e) classifies as an infraction
serious". That is to say, that the fact of not having provided access to the part
claimant to the data that BANKINTER had, it is an obstacle
of the right of access.

For this reason, it cannot be understood that such a situation is valued as a mitigation of
the infringement, but the opposite. Therefore, this claim is dismissed.

(b) The intentionality or negligence in the infringement (art. 83.2.b GDPR)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/22

BANKINTER alleges that it has acted with due diligence, implementing measures
before and after a specific error, both preventively and proactively to guarantee the
protection of the personal data it processes, and to give a proper response to the
rights. And that in the rare event that the AEPD considers that there is fault, it has
It has been demonstrated that this circumstance must be understood as an attenuation.

In this regard, this Agency reiterates that denying the concurrence of an action
negligence on the part of BANKINTER would be equivalent to recognizing that its conduct - for
act or omission - has been diligent. Obviously, this perspective is not shared
the facts, since the lack of due diligence has been proven. A great
company that routinely processes the personal data of its
customers, such as BANKINTER, must exercise extreme care in complying with their
data protection obligations, as established by jurisprudence.
The SAN of October 17, 2007 (rec. 63/2006) is very illustrative, based on
that these are entities whose activity entails the continuous treatment of
customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court has understood that there is
recklessness whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is, when the
offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the assessment of the degree of
diligence, the professionalism or not of the subject must be specially considered, and not
there is no doubt that, in the case now examined, when the activity of the appellant
is of constant and abundant handling of personal data
 must be insisted on
 
 
the rigor and exquisite care to comply with the legal provisions in this regard".

 

In the present case, the complaining party sent a first email on the 29th of
January 2019 requesting access to your personal data. BANKINTER replied
that he could not provide such data because he did not count as a client or ex-client of the
bank.

However, the complaining party sent a second email on February 12
of 2019 indicating to the bank that it was a customer and attached a series of
documentation proving such situation. And this second email doesn't
received a response from the bank.

In other words, the complaining party contacted the bank again so that it could
correct the response provided at first, but the bank did not give due
treatment of this request, not even once the complaining party provides the
corresponding documentation so that the bank could rectify such situation.

The fact that BANKINTER had not duly responded to the complaining party
once he contacts the bank again to get him out of his mistake on his first
response, itself proves the lack of due diligence that might be expected
of a bank of the category of BANKINTER, which continuously carries out processing
personal data of its customers.

For all the foregoing, this claim is dismissed.

(c) Any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties (art. 83.2.c GDPR)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/22

BANKINTER alleges that when knowledge of the error in the response gave
response to the right of access of the complaining party without any
additional damages for the delay in answering. This should also be taken into
considered as an extenuating circumstance.

In this regard, this Agency reiterates that BANKINTER was notified of its error by the
complaining party in his email dated February 12, 2019, in which
not only stated that he was a client, but also provided the relevant documentation
to prove such situation, and thus be able to obtain access to your data, as
I had previously requested, but this email was not duly answered. But
that access to the data of the complaining party was given once this Agency
required BANKINTER to provide information on this matter. which, by
other hand, it was nothing other than his obligation.

Therefore, this claim is dismissed.

(d) The degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy
the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement (art. 83.2.f GDPR)

In line with the aforementioned, BANKINTER alleges that it adopted the measures
necessary to remedy the situation that occurred, of which he duly informed
to said Agency in the response to the Request. Bankinter has collaborated
good faith with the AEPD to remedy the infringement and, in fact, it was achieved, it was
which should be taken into account as an extenuating circumstance.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that answering the requirements of
information that you make is a legal obligation, by virtue of article 52 of the
LOPDGDD, which provides that: "Public Administrations, including tax
and Social Security, and individuals will be obliged to provide the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection the data, reports, background and
supporting documents necessary to carry out their research activity”. Hence
it was BANKINTER's obligation to provide said information to this Agency.

For all the foregoing, this claim is dismissed.

2.2. BANKINTER alleges that this case should not involve the imposition
of a fine, but in any case the warning (faculty of the AEPD recognized in
the art. 58.2.b of the GDPR). This, in accordance with recital 148 GDPR, can
prevail based on:

"In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
constitutes a disproportionate burden on a natural person, rather than
penalty by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. should however
special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, to its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
to the degree of responsibility or any relevant prior infringement, to the manner in which
that the supervisory authority has become aware of the infringement, to compliance
of measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, to adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstances."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/22

It indicates that in the case that concerns us, there is no doubt that we are facing a
minor offence, without the fact that it is classified as "very serious" for mere
of prescription, may change such consideration.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that the requirements indicated by the
recital 148 of the GDPR, every time we are not facing a slight infringement of the
effects of the GDPR, as it is an obstacle to the exercise of the right of
access by the complaining party due to BANKINTER's lack of due diligence, nor
Nor is it a sanction directed at a natural person. For what is rejected
the present claim.

23. The absence of consideration of the mitigating factors mentioned, and of the
consequent reduction of the proposed amount or the imposition of a warning,
would render the amount currently proposed completely contrary to principle
of proportionality that governs the sanctioning administrative procedure in relation to
with the infraction in dispute, resulting in a disproportionate penalty (for
small as it is).

In this regard, this Agency reiterates all of the above and dismisses the
present allegation.

IV.

Right of access

Article 15 "Right of access of the interested party" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain from the data controller
confirmation of whether or not personal data concerning you is being processed and, in such
case, right of access to personal data and the following information:

a) the purposes of the treatment;
b) the categories of personal data concerned;
c) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom they were communicated
o personal data will be communicated, in particular recipients in
third countries or international organizations;
d) if possible, the expected period of conservation of personal data or,
if not possible, the criteria used to determine this term;
e) the existence of the right to request from the controller the rectification or
deletion of personal data or limitation of data processing
personal information relating to the interested party, or to oppose said treatment;
f) the right to file a claim with a control authority;
g) when the personal data has not been obtained from the interested party, any
available information on its origin;
h) the existence of automated decisions, including the elaboration of
profiles, referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such
cases, significant information about the logic applied, as well as the
importance and the expected consequences of such processing for the
interested.

2. When personal data is transferred to a third country or to an organization
international, the interested party shall have the right to be informed of the guarantees
appropriate under Article 46 relating to the transfer.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/22

3. The data controller shall provide a copy of the personal data object of
treatment. The person in charge may receive for any other copy requested by the
interested party a reasonable fee based on administrative costs. when the
The interested party submits the application by electronic means, and unless he requests
otherwise provided, the information will be provided in an electronic format of
Common use.
4. The right to obtain a copy mentioned in section 3 will not negatively affect
to the rights and liberties of others”.

In the present case, it is clear that the complaining party had requested BANKINTER the
access to your personal data by email in at least two
occasions. The last time, on February 12, 2019, in which he put in
knowledge of the bank that it was a customer and provided the relevant documentation
to prove that point.

For its part, BANKINTER replied the first time that it did not have his data and the
second time only sent an email to the complaining party
indicating that your application had been forwarded to the department
corresponding, from which a full response would be given in the term and manner
established. However, the complaining party did not receive any subsequent response.
until, after receiving the information request from this Agency,
you were given access to the requested information on April 20, 2020. This is more than one
year after having requested it and only after the intervention of this Agency.

According to the evidence available at this time in
agreement on the proposed resolution of the disciplinary procedure, it is considered that
the known facts could constitute an infringement, attributable to
BANKINTER, for violation of article 15 of the GDPR.

Classification and classification of the offense

V

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
proposed resolution of the disciplinary procedure, it is considered that
BANKINTER has not duly attended to the right of access requested by the party
claimant.

The known facts could constitute an infringement, attributable to
BANKINTER, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, which stipulates the following:
Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

(…)
b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22; (…)”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the alleged infringement
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
the following behavior is very serious:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/22

"[k) The impediment or the obstruction or the repeated non-attention of the exercise
of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679].”

SAW

Sanction proposal

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of a maximum of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the GDPR.

Likewise, for the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its
amount, in accordance with the evidence available in this
moment of proposal of resolution of disciplinary procedure, it is considered that
the balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR and 76.2 of
the LOPDGDD, with respect to the offense committed by violating what is established in the
Article 15 of the GDPR, allows you to propose a penalty of €1,000 (one thousand euros).

VII

adoption of measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is noted that not attending to the possible order to adopt measures imposed by
this body in the sanctioning resolution may be considered as a
administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, classified as
infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the opening of a
subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection sanctions
BANKINTER, S.A., with NIF A28157360, for a violation of Article 15 of the GDPR,
typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, with a fine of €1,000.00 (one thousand euros).

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP, you will be
informs that it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/22

It will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 800.00 euros and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure, without prejudice to the imposition of the measures
corresponding. The effectiveness of this reduction will be conditioned by the
withdrawal or waiver of any administrative action or appeal against the
sanction.

In case you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of the specified amount
above, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 85.2, you must do it
effective by entering the restricted account number IBAN: ES00-0000-0000-0000-
0000-0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code: CAIXESBBXXX) opened in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating
in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the cause, for voluntary payment, of reduction of the
amount of the penalty. Likewise, you must send proof of income to the
Sub-Directorate General of Inspection to proceed to close the file.

By virtue of this, you are notified of the foregoing, and the procedure is revealed.
so that within TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider in your defense and
present the documents and information that it deems pertinent, in accordance with
Article 89.2 of the LPACAP.

B.B.B.
INSPECTOR - INSTRUCTOR

926-170223

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/22

EXHIBIT

>>

SECOND: On March 28, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 800 euros making use of the reduction provided for in the
motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/22

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00206/2022, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BANKINTER, S.A..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

968-171022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

