• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To: 

It's OK  Limited 

Of:  Suite  12 4th  Floor New  England  Road,  Brighton,  East Sussex,  England, 

BN1  4GW 

1. 

The  Information  Commissioner ("the Commissioner")  has decided  to 

issue It's OK  Limited  ("It's OK")  with  a monetary penalty under section 

SSA  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 ("DPA"). The  penalty is  in  relation 

to a serious contravention  of regulation  21  of the  Privacy and  Electronic 

Communications (EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003  ("PECR"). 

2. 

This  notice  explains the  Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

It's OK,  whose  registered  office  is  given  above  (Companies  House 

Registration  Number:  10196140) is  the organisation  stated  in  this 

notice to have  used  a  public electronic communications service for the 

purpose of making  unsolicited  calls for the purposes of direct marketing 

contrary to regulation  21  of PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  21  applies to the  making of unsolicited  calls  for direct 

marketing purposes.  It means that if a company wants to make calls 

promoting  a product or service to an  individual  who has  a telephone 

1 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

number which  is  registered  with the Telephone  Preference  Service  Ltd 

("TPS"), then that individual  must have notified the company that they 

do  not object to receiving  such  calls from  it. 

5. 

Regulation  21  paragraph  (1)  of PECR  provides that: 

"(1) A person shall neither use,  nor instigate the use of,  a public 

electronic communications service for the purposes of making 

unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes where-

(a) 

the called line is  that of a subscriber who  has previously 

notified the caller that such calls should not for the time being 

be made on that line;  or 

(b) 

the number allocated to a subscriber in  respect of the called 

line is  one listed in  the register kept under regulation 26." 

6. 

Regulation  21  paragraphs (2),  (3),  (4)  and  (5)  provide that: 

"(2)  A subscriber shall not permit his line  to  be  used in  contravention 

of paragraph (1). 

(3)  A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 

where  the number allocated to  the called line has been listed on  the 

register for less  than 28 days preceding that on  which  the call is 

made. 

( 4)  Where  a subscriber who  has caused a number allocated to a line of 

his to  be listed in  the register kept under regulation 26 has notified 

a caller that he does  not,  for the time being,  object to such calls 

being made on  that line  by that caller,  such calls may be made by 

2 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

that caller on  that line,  notwithstanding that the number allocated 

to  that line is  listed in  the said register. 

(5)  Where  a subscriber has given a  caller notification pursuant to 

paragraph ( 4)  in  relation  to a  line of his-

(a)  the subscriber shall be free  to  withdraw that notification at 

any time,  and 

(b)  where such notification is  withdrawn,  the caller shall not 

make such calls on  that line." 

7. 

Under regulation  26 of PECR,  the Commissioner is  required  to maintain 

a  register of numbers allocated  to subscribers who  have notified them 

that they do  not wish,  for the time being, to receive  unsolicited  calls  for 

direct marketing  purposes on  those  lines.  The Telephone  Preference 

Service  Limited  ("TPS")  is  a  limited  company which  operates the 

register on  the  Commissioner's behalf.  Businesses who wish  to carry 

out direct marketing  by telephone can  subscribe to the TPS  for a fee 

and  receive  from  them  monthly a list of numbers on  that register. 

8. 

Section  122(5) of the  DPA18  defines direct marketing as "the 

communication (by whatever means)  of advertising material or 

marketing material which  is  directed to particular individuals".  This 

definition  also  applies for the purposes of PECR  (see  regulation  2(2) 

PECR  &  Schedule  19  paragraphs 430 &  432(6)  DPA18). 

9. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a  living individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals". 

3 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

10.  A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services". 

11.  Section  SSA  of the  DPA  (as applied  to  PECR  cases  by Schedule  1 to 

PECR,  as  variously amended)  states: 

"(1)  The  Commissioner may serve a person  with a monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is  satisfied that -

(a)  there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 

Directive)  Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This  subsection applies if the contravention  was  deliberate. 

(3)  This  subsection applies if the person  -

(a) 

knew or ought to have known  that there  was a  risk that 

the contravention  would occur,  but 

(b) 

failed to  take reasonable steps to prevent the 

contravention. 

12.  The  Commissioner has  issued  statutory guidance under section  SSC  (1) 

of the  DPA  about the issuing  of monetary penalties that has  been 

published  on  the ICO's website.  The  Data  Protection  (Monetary 

Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty and  Notices)  Regulations  2010 prescribe 

that the  amount of any penalty determined  by the Commissioner must 

not exceed  fS00,000. 

13.  PECR  were  enacted  to protect the individual's fundamental  right to 

privacy in  the electronic communications sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner will 

4 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' 

overall  aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy 

rights. 

14.  The  provisions of the  DPA  remain  in  force  for the purposes  of PECR 

notwithstanding the introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20  to the  DPA18. 

Background 

15. 

It's OK  Limited  ("It's OK")  is  a nationwide appliance  service  and  repair 

company, for domestic white good  products.  It's OK  were  incorporated 

on  24  May  2016 and  are  registered  with the Information 

Commissioner's Office. 

16. 

It's OK  came to the ICO's attention  during  2020  as  a result of the 

Commissioner monitoring  complaints received  via  the TPS.  Research  by 

the Commissioner identified that from  1 January 2019 to 2020,  at least 

16 complaints  had  been  made to the ICO regarding  calls  from  It's OK, 

and  59  complaints had  been  received  by the TPS. 

17.  Many of the complainants were  concerned that It's OK  were  calling to 

encourage  individuals to take out white goods insurance,  often 

specifically in  relation  to washing  machines.  Complaints  indicated that 

It's OK  were telling  individuals that their washing  machine warranty 

had  expired  when  this may not have always been  the case.  Complaints 

also  indicated that It's OK  may have  been  using  high-pressure sales 

tactics and  the complainants included  elderly and/or vulnerable 

individuals. 

18.  The  following  are  examples of the comments made about It's OK  by 

TPS  complainants: 

5 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"They called my Mum (who is  82) &  bambozzeled [sic] her into talking 

[sic] out an extended warranty on  her 10 year old washing machine  -

they talked into paying them £194 including  VAT - I  then sent them an 

e mail to cancel and they kept calling trying to get her to keep  it - this 

is  not ok". 

"They try to con  you  into thinking they are your washing machine 

insurers and it needs to be renewed and they need to  check your bank 

details.  I  am insured with  Domestic and General.  When  asked their 

name they hung up". 

"I have been mis-sold a Service Plan  total cost of £194.40 for my 

washing  machine.  I  was  informed that my current service plan  was due 

to expire and it needed to be renewed.  I  renewed it and I  have been 

told that I  am not eligible to receive an engineer visit for a service.  It's 

OK Ltd has received £194.40 from  me a pensioner and will not provide 

a service.  I  think many people are scammed". 

"Tried to rush  me into renewing  warranty on  washing implying 

warranty had expired recently.  Actually warranty expired years ago." 

19. 

It's OK  had  responded  to the TPS  complaints stating:  "Our organisation 

had prior consent to  make this call and we  can provide evidence of 

this." 

20.  Given  the volume of complaints and  the comments suggesting that 

there was  often  no  prior relationship  between  It's OK  and  the 

complainants,  it was  decided  to open  an  investigation. 

21.  An  investigation  letter was  sent to It's OK  on  28  May  2020. The  letter 

outlined the Commissioner's concerns  and  the regulations  and  powers 

6 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

available to the ICO.  It also  asked  a range  of questions,  including the 

volume of calls that had  been  made,  and  connected,  over the  period  28 

May  2019 to 28  May  2020,  and  how It's OK  sourced  its call  data.  A list 

of complaints was  also  provided  and  the Commissioner requested 

evidence  of consent to contact all  of the subscribers in  the 

spreadsheet. 

22. 

It's OK  responded  to the  Commissioner on  10 June  2020.  They stated 

that from  28  May  2019 to 28  May  2020: 

i. 

ii. 

1,789,974 calls  had  been  made 

1,141,919 calls  had  connected. 

23. 

It's OK  explained that they obtain  data  by purchasing  leads  from  a 

third  party organisation  called 

- ( ' - ) ,  which  is  based  in  India. It's OK  further stated: 

"When  GDPR  was  released in  May 2018,  our company contacted the 

ICO helpdesk to ask for guidance  when purchasing data from  lead 

generation companies.  We  were  told that any company contacting a 

lead must have relevance and if the lead generation company had 

proof i.e.  an opt-in then  that would be deemed as compliant. 

It is  our understanding along with  the lead generation companies that 

if a lead has opted-in to the lifestyle survey,  then  this supersedes  the 

TPS  option as the lead has given permission  to  be contacted regarding 

the product and services." 

24. 

It's OK  supplied  the name of the  lead  company that had  provided the 

subscriber's details, where the subscriber could  be  identified  by It's OK, 

which  in  all  cases was -

7 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

25.  On  12 June  2020 the  Commissioner wrote to It's OK  to ask whether 

-screens against the TPS  before  making the survey calls.  The 

Commissioner also  requested  a copy of the script used  by -when 

making the survey call  and  gaining the relevant opt-in  leads. 

26.  On  25  June  2020 the  Commissioner received  a  response  from  It's OK 

stating that: 

"If the consumer is contacted within  6  months from  the last point of 

contact (survey completion/ opt in)  they~  do not screen  the 

data against the TPS  register,  due  to  the existing opt-in and frequency 

of communication  with  that particular consumer.  Their document also 

states that should they contact the /  a  consumer outside of 6  months, 

they screen  the number against the  TPS  register prior to contact." 

27.  A copy of the call  script used  by-was also  provided. 

28.  On  26 June  2020 the  Commissioner wrote to It's OK  requesting 

additional  information, including justification for contacting the 

complainants listed  in  the spreadsheet provided  by the  Commissioner. 

The  Commissioner also  requested  sample call  recordings.  It's OK 

responded  on  16 July 2020  stating that: 

-has  not acquisitioned data  from  3rd parties for a  very long 

period,  due to  the lack of clarity from  countries officiators regarding 

compliance.  As a result,  they only use data  which  they themselves 

have cultivated over many years i.e.  contacting non  TPS  numbers and 

then opting them in  to  3rd party contact prior to taking part in  lifestyle 

surveys.  Leads are then supplied to companies such as ours,  based 

upon  the relevance  to response  given by the consumer during the 

survey." 

8 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

29. 

It's OK  did  not provide-justification for contacting  the 

complainants and  also  did  not provide the sample call  recordings.  It's 

OK  stated that the recordings  were  only available  from  the compliance 

department, which  was  closed  until  further notice  due to the Covid  19 

pandemic. 

30.  On  23  July 2020 the Commissioner wrote to It's OK  requesting 

evidence of consent for It's OK  to contact the complainants listed  in  the 

spreadsheet provided  by the Commissioner;  and  five  call 

recordings/transcripts of the  initial  survey call  made  by -

within 

the last calendar year.  Given  the difficulty It's OK  were  having  in 

obtaining  information f rom - as  a result of the pandemic they 

were  asked  to provide monthly updates in  relation  to obtaining the 

relevant information.  It's OK  were  also  asked  to confirm  whether they 

obtained  leads from  any other source. 

31.  On  28  July 2020 It's OK  responded  to the Commissioner confirming 

that they did  not obtain  leads from  any other source.  It's OK  also 

stated that the information  purchased  from -related to people 

who had  answered  questions relevant to their products and  or services 

of It's OK  and  who had  also agreed  to receive  contact from  third 

parties such  as  It's OK. 

32.  On  30  July 2020 the Commissioner wrote to It's OK  and  again 

requested  evidence of consent for It's OK  to contact the complainants 

listed  in  the spreadsheet. 

33. 

It's OK  responded  on  4 August 2020 and  stated that they were  seeking 

the  necessary information from  -

In addition, It's OK  stated that 

they felt their practices were  consistent with  information that they said 

they had  previously received  from  the Commissioner in  response  to a 

telephone enquiry.  The  Commissioner responded  on  6 August 2020 

9 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

providing  clarification  that the live  marketing  calls  made by It's OK 

would  need  to be  screened  against the TPS  unless valid  consent to 

marketing contact from  It's OK  had  been  obtained  from  those 

individuals. 

34.  On  6  October 2020 the Commissioner wrote to Trading  Standards to 

ask for any relevant information  in  connection  with the investigation 

into It's OK.  On  22  October 2020 Trading  Standards provided the 

Commissioner with  information  including  several  Citizen  Advice  log 

complaints about It's OK. 

35.  On  17  November 2020 It's OK  wrote to the Commissioner stating that 

they were  still  unable to provide the  required  information  as  the 

situation  in  India regarding  the pandemic was  ongoing  and -

were  not fully operational. 

36.  On  18 January 2021 the  Commissioner wrote to It's OK  requesting  a 

list of all  outbound  connected  calls  covering  28  May  2019 to  28  May 

2020.  This  was  requested  from  It's OK  directly because  of issues 

obtaining the  call  records from  the telecommunications provider used 

by It's OK, 

37.  On  28  January 2021  It's OK  wrote to the Commissioner and  provided  a 

spreadsheet containing  details of 19 complainants and  It's OK's 

evidence of consent.  The  spreadsheet showed  that individuals 

consented  by completing -telephone survey and  that the 

evidence of consent held  by It's OK  consisted  of a record  of the  date 

the  subscriber had  last completed -survey. 

38.  On  27  January 2021 

provided the  Commissioner with  a copy 

of the call  records  for the It's OK  account. The  call  records  showed that 

2,578,543 outbound  connected  calls  had  been  made over a period  of 

10 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

11  months. 

also  provided  a list of all  the telephone  numbers 

allocated  to It's OK.  Some  of these  numbers had  not been  provided  by 

It's OK  when  the Commissioner asked  It's OK  to list all  the telephone 

numbers used  to make outbound  marketing  calls. 

39.  On  16  February 2021  the Commissioner wrote to It's OK  and  reiterated 

that TPS  registered  individuals would  need  to have  specifically opted  in 

to receive  marketing  calls  from  It's OK.  The  script that was  provided 

as  evidence that -obtained consent for It's OK  to call  TPS 

registered  numbers did  not specifically name It's OK  or ask the 

individual to state that they did  not object to receiving  marketing 

telephone calls from  It's OK. 

40.  The  Commissioner asked  It's OK  to confirm  whether they were  named 

as  an  organisation that individuals agreed  to be  contacted  by for 

marketing purposes in  the -

lifestyle survey,  and  to provide 

evidence  of this.  The  previous request for a copy  of outbound  call 

records was  repeated.  This was  because  of the apparent discrepancy in 

the  call  volumes and  list of numbers provided  by 

and  It's 

OK. 

41. 

It's OK  responded  to the  Commissioner on  5 March  2021  stating that 

they were  named on-survey and  that they had  obtained five 

call  recordings for the ICO to review.  In this response,  It's OK  also 

provided  a link to -privacy policy,  stating that they are  named 

in  the  policy. 

42.  The  Commissioner reviewed  the link provided  and  noted that It's OK 

appeared  to have been  added  to the 

privacy policy subsequent 

to the ICO's recent email.  The-privacy policy had  been  reviewed 

11 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

by the Commissioner on  29  July 2020 which  contained  no  mention  of 

It's OK. 

43. 

In its response  of 5  March  2021  It's OK  also  stated that they were 

unable to provide the requested  call  records as  they had  made 

enquiries with 

who  no  longer retained  this information.  It's 

OK  also  provided  a copy of an  email  trail  between themselves and 

regarding  the  discrepancy in  the list of telephone  numbers 

allocated  to It's OK.  In the same  response  It's OK  also  requested  a 

copy of telephone  recordings for its calls to the ICO  helpline  in  May 

2018 as  they felt they had  followed  the  guidance  provided  by the ICO. 

44.  On  15  March  2021  the Commissioner explained  that the ICO  does  not 

hold  recordings  of calls  made to the ICO helpline, and  also asked 

whether It's OK  had  been  able to confirm  which  numbers it had  used  to 

make  marketing  calls  over the contravention  period. 

45.  On  29  March  2021  It's OK  explained  that discussions with 

regarding  the  numbers used  were  still  ongoing.  It's OK  provided  a copy 

of five  call  recordings for calls  made by -

46.  On  15  April  2021 the Commissioner wrote to It's OK  to request a copy 

The  Commissioner 
of the contract in  place  between  It's OK  and -
also asked  for confirmation  of when  the  call  recordings  provided  by It's 

OK  were  from,  as  no date or time  had  been  included  in  the files. 

47.  On  4  May  2021  It's OK  wrote to the Commissioner and  stated that 

initially provided them  with  a list of 42 allocated  numbers, 

which  did  not match the  spreadsheet of 122 numbers provided to the 

Commissioner by 

then  stated to It's OK  that 

there were  in  fact 82 telephone  numbers allocated  to It's OK.  It's OK 

stated they would  put their name to the  122 numbers but were  not 

12 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

confident in  this matter given the discrepancy in  the answers  provided 

by 

48. 

In the same  response  It's OK  provided the  Commissioner with  a copy 

of a purchase  order confirmation,  which  they said  was the agreement 

in  place  between  both  companies.  It's OK  also  stated that they were 

still  unable to provide  any evidence  of consent to contact the 

outstanding  complainants due to -
Covid  19. 

being  heavily impacted  by 

49.  On  6  May  2021 the  Commissioner asked  It's OK  to confirm  the date of 

the  purchase  order confirmation,  as  it appeared  to be  undated.  The 

Commissioner also  asked  again  for the  dates of the call  recordings that 

had  been  supplied,  as  it was  unclear whether the  calls  had  been  made 

within the contravention  period. 

50.  On  3 June  2021  It's OK  wrote to the Commissioner and  confirmed that 

the purchase  order provided  was  from  June  2019.  It's OK  also  stated 

that the  call  recordings  provided  were  in  fact outside the dates of the 

requested  period. They instead  provided five  new  call  recordings,  which 

they said  were from  June  2019.  A transcript of the alleged June  2019 

calls  is  as  follows: 

I  just need your help  with a few simple household questions and I  will 

be  very quick,  is  that OK? These  questions are on  behalf of UK leading 

companies for marketing purposes and there is a  recorded message at 

the end of my call.  So just to confirm  ***confirm contact details*** 

Some of the companies may contact you  via  telephone or post with 

information relevant to your answer is  that ok? Are you in  the age 40s, 

50s,  or 60s? Are you renting or a homeowner? On  behalf of It's OK -

what make is  your washing  machine? And how old is  your washing 

machine? I  will now play the recorded message that lists the sponsors 

13 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

and other similar organisations and gives you the opportunity to opt 

out of future marketing.  You  may also  visit 

or call 

to  view our 

privacy policy.  Please  take a  moment to  listen  to our recorded message 

for today's sponsor.  Recorded message:  Thank you  for taking the time 

to answer our questions.  For security,  the information provided will be 

held under the guidelines of the data protection act.  Our partners 

provide products and services from  the following sectors:  retail, 

telecommunications,  automotive,  insurance,  lifestyle,  wills,  publishing 

and media,  charities,  entertainment,  gaming,  leisure,  utilities,  public 

sector,  financial services,  home improvements,  travel,  claims 

management services.  If you  wish  to  opt out of any of these please dial 

51.  On  5 August 2021  the  Commissioner wrote to It's OK  to confirm that 

its enquiries had  been  completed  and  the Commissioner would  now 

consider whether formal  enforcement action  was  appropriate.  It's OK 

were  asked  to provide any other relevant evidence,  or information  by 

12 August 2021. 

52.  Given  the apparent discrepancy in  the call  volumes and  list of numbers 

used  by It's OK,  efforts were  made to establish  that the call  records 

provided  by 

were  all  for calls  made by It's OK.  A 

spreadsheet was  compiled  of all  telephone  numbers used  in  the call 

records supplied  by 

. These telephone  numbers were then 

compared  with  ICO and  TPS  complaints received  regarding  It's OK. 

53.  The  comparison  established that 

had  allocated  It's OK 

blocks of numbers and  that,  for the majority of these  number blocks, 

complaints had  been  received  regarding  calls  from  It's OK.  The  call 

records also  included  a column  titled "src_user",  which  is  understood to 

14 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

mean "source user".  The  source  user listed  for all  of the  call  records 

was the name of one  of the directors of It's OK. 

54.  For these  reasons the call  records  provided  by 

have  been 

relied  upon  in  the investigation. The  records  evidence that 2,578,543 

connected  calls  were  made by It's OK  over an  11  month  period.  The 

call  records  were  screened  against the TPS  and  the screening 

evidenced  that 1,752,149 of the calls  made  by It's OK  had  been  made 

to subscribers who  had  been  registered  with the TPS  for not less than 

28  days at the time they received  the call,  over the period  1 July 2019 

to  1 June  2020. 

55.  The  Commissioner has  made the  above findings of fact on  the 

balance  of probabilities. 

56.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether those facts  constitute a 

contravention  of regulation  21  of PECR  by It's OK  and,  if so,  whether 

the conditions  of section  SSA  DPA  are  satisfied. 

The contravention 

57.  The  Commissioner finds that It's OK  contravened  regulation  21  of 

PECR. 

58.  The  Commissioner finds that the contravention  was  as  follows: 

59.  Between  1 July 2019  and  1 June  2020, It's OK  used  a public 

telecommunications service  for the purposes of making  1,752,149 

unsolicited  calls for direct marketing  purposes to subscribers where the 

number allocated  to the subscriber in  respect of the called  line was  a 

15 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

number listed  on  the register of numbers kept by the  Commissioner in 

accordance with  regulation  26,  contrary to regulation  21(l)(b) of PECR. 

This  resulted  in  a total  of 71  complaints being  made to the TPS  and  the 

Commissioner. 

60.  The  Commissioner is  also  satisfied  for the  purposes  of regulation  21 

that these  1,752,149 unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  were  made to 

subscribers who had  registered  with the TPS  at least 28  days prior to 

receiving the calls,  and  who for the  purposes  of regulation  21( 4)  had 

not notified It's OK  that they did  not object to receiving  such  calls. 

61.  For such  notification to be  valid  under regulation  21(4), the individual 

must have taken  a clear and  positive  action  to override their TPS 

registration  and  indicate their willingness to receive  marketing  calls 

from  the company.  The  notification  should  reflect the individual's 

choice  about whether or not they are  willing  to receive  marketing  calls. 

Therefore, where signing  up to use  a product or service  is  conditional 

upon  receiving  marketing  calls,  companies will  need  to demonstrate 

how this constitutes a clear and  positive notification  of the individual's 

willingness to receive  such  calls. 

62.  The  notification  must clearly  indicate the individual's willingness to 

receive  marketing  calls  specifically.  Companies cannot rely on 

individuals opting  in  to marketing  communications generally,  unless it 

is  clear that this will  include telephone calls. 

63.  Further, the notification  must demonstrate the individual's willingness 

to receive  marketing  calls  from  that company specifically.  Notifications 

will  not be  valid  for the  purposes  of regulation  21( 4)  if individuals are 

asked  to agree to receive  marketing  calls  from "similar organisations", 

"partners", "selected third  parties" or other similar generic descriptions. 

16 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

64.  Against the backdrop of the factual  matrix summarised  in  the 

background  section,  the  Commissioner is  satisfied  that a serious 

contravention  of regulation  21  of PECR  has  been  committed  by It's OK. 

Namely,  in  contravention  of regulation  21  (1)  (b), It's OK  made 

1,752,149 connected  calls  over an  11  month  period  to numbers that 

were  registered  with TPS  for over 28  days. 

65.  The  Commissioner has  gone on  to consider whether the onditions 

under section  SSA  DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

66.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied  that the contravention  identified 

above was  serious.  This  is  because there have  been  multiple breaches 

of regulation  21  by It's OK  arising  from  the organisation's activities 

between  1 July 2019  and  1 June  2020,  and  this led  to  1,752,149 

unsolicited  direct marketing calls  being  made to subscribers who were 

registered  with the TPS  and  who  had  not notified It's OK  that they were 

willing to receive  such  calls,  and  71  complaints  being  made as  a result. 

67.  Additionally, the Commissioner considers the contravention  serious 

because: 

i.  Over one  and  a half million  calls  were  made  over an  11  month 

period,  demonstrating  a sustained  campaign  of nuisance  calls. 

ii. 

Some of the  calls  appeared  to involve  misleading  individuals that 

their warranties  had  expired  and  encouraging them to pay for 

services they did  not necessarily need. 

17 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

iii.  Vulnerable  individuals may have  been  negatively impacted  by these 

calls  and  there is  some  indication that elderly individuals may have 

been  specifically targeted. 

68.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (a)  from 

section  SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

69.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether the  contravention  identified 

above was  deliberate.  In the Commissioner's view, this means that It's 

OK's  actions which  constituted that contravention  were  deliberate 

actions  ( even  if It's OK  did  not actually intend thereby to contravene 

PECR). 

70.  The  Commissioner considers  that in  this case  It's OK  did  deliberately 

contravene  regulation  21  of PECR.  This  is  because  although  It's OK's 

actions  may have  been  negligent prior to the commencement of the 

Commissioner's  investigation, It's OK  continued to contravene 

regulation  21  despite the Commissioner expressing  his concerns and 

explaining the  seriousness of the  contravention  to It's OK. 

71. 

In reaching  this conclusion,  the Commissioner notes that It's OK  were 

aware  of the  risks,  but neither ceased  its behaviour nor implemented 

any changes to mitigate against or prevent serious  contraventions of 

the  PECR.  In addition,  it was  noted that at least  10 TPS  complaints 

were  submitted  against It's OK  alter the  investigation  was  concluded. 

72.  For the  above  reasons,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that this breach 

was  deliberate. 

18 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

73.  Further and  in  the alternative, the Commissioner has gone on  to 

consider whether the  contravention  identified above was  negligent. 

This  consideration  comprises two elements: 

74.  Firstly,  he  has  considered  whether It's OK  knew  or ought reasonably to 

have  known  that there was  a risk that this contravention  would  occur. 

He  is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met, for the following  reasons: 

i. 

As  a company that is  engaged  in  continuously contacting  its present 

and  potential  customers,  It's OK  should  have  been  aware  of the 

rules that apply to such  communications. 

ii.  During the course  of this investigation, It's OK  was  advised  to 

consult the ICO  guidance on  the requirements of PECR  with  regards 

to live  marketing  calls. 

75.  The  Commissioner has  also  published  detailed  guidance for companies 

carrying  out marketing  explaining their legal  requirements under PECR. 

This  guidance  explains the  circumstances  under which  organisations 

are  able to carry out marketing  over the phone,  by text,  by email,  by 

post or by fax.  Specifically,  it states that live calls  must not be  made to 

any subscriber registered  with the TPS,  unless the  subscriber has 

specifically notified the  company that they do  not object to receiving 

such  calls.  ICO  communications about previous enforcement action 

where  businesses  have  not complied  with  PECR  are  also  readily 

available. 

76.  Where  it is  able to identify the  organisation  making the calls,  it is 

standard  practice for the TPS  is  to contact that organisation  on  each 

occasion  a complaint is  made.  It is  reasonable  to believe that It's OK 

would  have  been  sent a notification from  the TPS  for the complaints 

19 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

being  made in  this case.  From  January 2018 to April  2022 67 TPS 

complaints  received  by the TPS  were  responded  to by It's OK,  including 

28  over the  contravention  period.  That these  complaints were  made 

and  referred  to It's OK  by the TPS  should  have  made It's OK  aware of 

the risk that such  contraventions may occur and  were  indeed  occurring. 

77. 

It is  therefore reasonable to suppose that It's OK  should  have  been 

aware  of its responsibilities  in  this area. 

78.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on  to consider whether It's OK 

failed  to take reasonable  steps to prevent the contravention.  Again,  he 

is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

79.  The  Commissioner's direct marketing  guidance  makes clear that 

organisations acquiring  marketing  lists from  a third  party must 

undertake rigorous  checks to satisfy themselves that the personal  data 

was  obtained  fairly and  lawfully, that their details would  be  passed 

along  for direct marketing to the specifically named  organisation  in  the 

case  of live calls,  and  that they have the necessary notifications for the 

purposes of regulation  21(4).  It is  not acceptable to rely on  assurances 

given  by third  party suppliers without undertaking  proper due 

diligence. 

80.  Reasonable  steps in  these  circumstances  may also  have  included: 

i.  Reviewing  a copy  of the script used  by-when obtaining 

leads;  a review  of this script by It's OK  should  have found  that the 

script was  not sufficient to rely on  to obtain  valid justification  for 

TPS  registered  numbers to be  contacted  by It's OK. 

20 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ii. 

Implementing  procedures to investigate complaints and  to ensure 

that objections that they received  were  appropriately acted  upon, 

such  as  through the use  of suppression  lists,  appropriate employee 

training  and  adjustments to procedures  (including the  development 

of an  appropriate  PECR  policy). 

81.  Given  the volume of calls  and  complaints,  it is  clear that It's OK  failed 

to take those  reasonable  steps. 

82.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (b)  from  section 

SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 

83.  The  Commissioner  has  taken  into  account  the  following  aggravating 

features of this case: 

i. 

It's OK  were potentially targeting  vulnerable  individuals as  a result 

of  buying  data  specifically  gathered  from  an  older  age  bracket. 

Some complaints indicate vulnerable  people were  impacted. 

ii. 

The  purpose  of  the  marketing  was  to  increase  turnover  and 

ultimately generate profit for the organisation. 

iii.  Although  It's  OK  Ltd  maintained  they  verbally  contacted  the  ICO 

Helpline 

for  advice 

there 

is  no 

record  of  this,  and 

their 

interpretation  of  this  possible  advice  given  does  not  fit  with 

published ICO Guidance or the legislation. The Commissioner would 

also  have  expected  the  company to  have  reviewed  their practices 

given  the number of complaints they would  have  been  aware  of. 

21 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

iv.  Whilst  there  has  been  co-operation,  this  has  not  always  been 

timely.  Documentation  has  been  produced  post  request  and 

amendments made to documentation  already provided. 

84.  The  Commissioner does not consider that there are  any mitigating 

features of this case. 

85.  For the reasons  explained  above,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that the 

conditions from  section  SSA  (1)  DPA  have  been  met in  this case.  He  is 

also  satisfied  that the procedural  rights under section  55B  have  been 

complied  with. 

86.  The  latter has  included the issuing  of a  Notice of Intent, in  which  the 

Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking.  In reaching  his final 

view, the Commissioner has taken  into account the  representations 

made by It's OK  on  this matter. 

87.  The  Commissioner is  accordingly entitled to issue  a monetary penalty 

in  this case. 

88.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether,  in  the circumstances,  he 

should  exercise  his  discretion  so  as  to issue  a monetary penalty. 

89.  The  Commissioner has  considered  the likely impact of a monetary 

penalty on  It's OK.  He  has decided  on  the information that is  available 

to him, that a penalty remains the appropriate course  of action  in  the 

circumstances of this case. 

90.  The  Commissioner's underlying objective in  imposing  a monetary 

penalty notice is to promote compliance with  PECR.  The  making  of 

unsolicited  direct marketing calls  is  a matter of significant public 

concern.  A monetary penalty in  this case  should  act as  a general 

22 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

encouragement towards compliance with the  law,  or at least as  a 

deterrent against non-compliance,  on  the part of all  persons running 

businesses currently engaging  in  these  practices.  This  is  an  opportunity 

to reinforce the need  for businesses to ensure that they are  only 

telephoning  consumers who  are  not registered  with  the TPS  and/or 

specifically indicate that they do  not object to receiving these calls. 

91. 

In making  his  decision, the  Commissioner has also  had  regard  to the 

factors  set out in  s108(2)(b)  of the  Deregulation Act 2015;  including: 

the nature and  level  of risks  associated  with  non-compliance,  including 

the risks to economic growth;  the steps taken  by the  business to 

achieve  compliance  and  reasons  for its failure;  the willingness and 

ability of the business to address  non-compliance;  the  likely impact of 

the proposed  intervention  on  the business,  and  the likely impact of the 

proposed  intervention  on  the wider business community,  both  in  terms 

of deterring  non-compliance and  economic benefits to legitimate 

businesses. 

92.  For these  reasons,  the Commissioner has decided  to issue  a monetary 

penalty in  this case. 

The amount of the penalty 

93.  Taking  into account all  of the  above,  the Commissioner has  decided 

that a penalty in  the sum  of £200,000  is  reasonable  and  proportionate 

given  the particular facts  of the case  and  the  underlying objective in 

imposing the penalty. 

23 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Conclusion 

94.  The Commissioner The  monetary penalty must be  paid  to the 

Commissioner's office  by BACS  transfer or cheque  by  16 March  2023 

at the latest.  The  monetary penalty is  not kept by the  Commissioner 

but will  be  paid  into the Consolidated  Fund  which  is the Government's 

general  bank account at the  Bank of England. 

95. 

If the Commissioner receives full  payment of the monetary penalty by 
15 March  2023 the Commissioner will  reduce the monetary penalty 

by 20% to £160,000.  However, you  should  be  aware that the early 

payment discount is  not available if you  decide to exercise your right of 

appeal. 

96.  There  is  a  right of appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 

against: 

(a) the  imposition  of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified  in  the monetary penalty 

notice. 

97.  Any notice of appeal  should  be  received  by the Tribunal  within  28 days 

of the date of this  monetary penalty notice. 

98. 

Information  about appeals  is  set out in  Annex  1. 

99.  The Commissioner will  not take action  to enforce a  monetary penalty 

unless: 

24 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  the  period  specified  within the  notice within  which  a monetary 

penalty must be  paid  has expired  and  all  or any of the monetary 

penalty has not been  paid; 

•  all  relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice  and  any 

variation  of it have  either been  decided  or withdrawn;  and 

•  the  period  for appealing  against the monetary penalty and  any 

variation  of it has expired. 

100.  In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland, the monetary penalty is 

recoverable  by Order of the  County Court or the  High  Court.  In 

Scotland, the monetary penalty can  be  enforced  in  the same  manner as 

an  extract registered  decree arbitral  bearing  a warrant for execution 

issued  by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom  in  Scotland. 

Dated  13  February  2023 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

25 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  55B(S)  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 gives any person 

upon  whom  a monetary penalty notice  has  been  served  a right of 

appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the 'Tribunal') 

against the notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the notice against which  the  appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance with the law;  or 

b) 

to the  extent that the notice  involved  an  exercise  of 

discretion  by the Commissioner, that he  ought to have exercised 

his discretion  differently, 

the Tribunal  will  allow the appeal  or substitute such  other decision  as 

could  have  been  made  by the  Commissioner.  In any other case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring  an  appeal  by serving  a notice of appeal  on  the 

Tribunal  at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

26 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Telephone:  0203 936  8963 

Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The  notice of appeal  should  be  sent so  it is  received  by the 

Tribunal  within  28  days of the date of the notice. 

b) 

If your notice of appeal  is  late the Tribunal  will  not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has extended the time for complying  with this 

rule. 

4. 

The  notice of appeal  should  state:-

a) 

your name and  address/name and  address  of your 

representative  (if any); 

b) 

an  address where  documents may be  sent or delivered to 

you; 

c) 

the name and  address  of the Information Commissioner; 

d) 

details of the decision  to which  the proceedings relate; 

e) 

the result that you  are  seeking; 

f) 

the grounds on  which  you  rely; 

g) 

you  must provide with the notice  of appeal  a copy of the 

monetary penalty notice or variation  notice; 

h) 

if you  have  exceeded the time limit mentioned  above the 

notice of appeal  must include a request for an  extension  of time 

27 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

and  the  reason  why the notice of appeal  was  not provided  in 

time. 

5. 

Before  deciding  whether or not to appeal  you  may wish  to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser.  At the hearing  of an  appeal  a  party 

may conduct his case  himself or may be  represented  by any person 

whom  he  may appoint for that purpose. 

6. 

The  statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier 

Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  are  contained  in  section  55B(S)  of,  and 

Schedule 6 to, the  Data  Protection  Act  1998, and Tribunal  Procedure 

(First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber)  Rules  2009 

(Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

28 

