  Monday, July 29, 2019 2: Press releases Apple camera cars will soon also be driving in Schleswig-Holstein - objection already possible   Starting today, Apple will be driving cars in Germany with cameras mounted on the roof, with which street views and building fronts are recorded. Schleswig-Holstein will probably not be there from day 1, but only in a few months. However, many concerned citizens are already contacting the Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein (ULD). Apple states that the data of its own map service should be improved by analyzing paths and traffic signs. In addition, these images of the streets and houses could in the future be displayed and published on the Internet in the planned "Apple Look Around" function. Marit Hansen, the Schleswig-Holstein State Commissioner for Data Protection, considers driving along streets with camera cars not only critical if people are recognizable on the paths or even filmed into private houses: "Apple promises that faces and car license plates will be visible be made unrecognizable before publication and the software used for this works fairly reliably. But not everyone agrees that the recordings of private property can be called up for years and that it can be seen, for example, that the front yard has not been perfectly maintained, that expensive cars are parked in front of the house or where burglars could have an easy time.” While Apple in Great Britain (https://maps.apple.com/imagecollection/gb) [Extern] that people, cars and even your house can be made unrecognizable on request, there was initially no mention of this on the German website ( https://maps.apple.com/imagecollection/de) [External]. Apple only provided further information this afternoon, according to which it is also possible to remove the property images in Germany. Hansen finds this annoying: "The camera movements are supposed to start today, the discussion has been going on for a long time - but only now is Apple gradually providing more detailed information about which data is being processed. According to this, all data recorded in the cars is encrypted to prevent unauthorized access, but then – I see this critically – processed further on American servers; Apple reserves the right to store them for up to 36 months. Above all, Apple initially did not provide any information about the objection process, only listing an email address for "questions or concerns". Anyone wishing to object in writing must send their letter to Apple Distribution International in Ireland. Even if Apple now says that the "Look Around" service may not even be introduced in Germany, this information policy in salami tactics doesn't look to me as if Apple takes people's concerns about their personal data seriously enough." Who thinks to have been filmed by a passing camera car can contradict the data processing, so that the images relating to him are removed from the stored raw data - and not only when published. In any case, the location and, if possible, the time of the recording should be given. Hansen's recommendation: "Anyone who wants to can file an objection now - then the location of the house will be marked for deletion." /article/1293-Suggested-wording-for-the-objection-to-Apple.html
[End of supplement] The e-mail address given on the Apple website (https://maps.apple.com/imagecollection/de) [Ext.] for an objection is: mapsimagecollection@apple.com An Apple contact form can also be used: https://www.apple.com/privacy/contact/ [External] The postal address for objections: Apple Distribution International
Data Protection Officer
Hollyhill Industrial Estate
Hollyhill, Cork
Republic of Ireland The exact dates in which districts or cities in Schleswig-Holstein the camera cars are on the road should also be made available on the Apple website mentioned. However, the previous list still lacks any information on Schleswig-Holstein. [Added on 06/24/2020:]
In the meantime, Apple's website for image capture[Ext.] has indicated that parts of Schleswig-Holstein are to be captured in the period from June to September 2020. '
[End of supplement]   As with the related service Google Street View, the Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein provides a sign that you can print out yourself with which you can express that you do not agree with the recordings of the camera cars: Objection to Apple Look Around Objection to Google Streetview Since this sign is probably not evaluated by the Apple software, you have to lodge your objection directly with Apple in any case. If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223
E-mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/ _____ Information "Apple camera rides" from the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision including FAQ: https://www.lda.bayern.de/de/thema_apple_kameratouren.html [Ext.] Tags for this article: geodata, news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure