1/11

936-031219

 Procedure No.: PS/00139/2020

RESOLUTION R/00289/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00139/2020, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Officer to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., given the complaint
presented by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 16, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00139/2020

935-200320

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated March 8, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against Vodafone España, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397

(hereinafter, the claimed).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

The claimant states that she was the holder of a fixed telephony contract + fiber +
mobile line with Movistar, carrying out portability with the claimed in various
dates.

Subsequently, in February 2018, he moved his address, and when making
a query, they state that in their systems the services registered appear
as owner his ex-spouse.

He adds that his data appears on the invoices issued by the defendant, but

addressed to your ex-spouse.

And, among other things, it provides the following documentation:

 Certified letter sent to the respondent on February 27, 2018.

 Claim filed at the commercial establishment of the claimed party on the 10th of

March 2018.

 Claim before the OMIC of the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1 on 11
May 2018 and responses from Vodafone dated May 17 and July 19
2018.

o Invoices dated February 15 and March 1, 2018, which include the

data of the claimant, but addressed to her ex-spouse.

o Invoice of March 1, 2018, where your data appears and addressed to

she.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

On October 9, 2019, the respondent states the following:

1. The claimant was the holder of a contract with Movistar from which she made

portability to the claimed and later I make a change of address.

2. That the services registered by the claimant were associated, in their
systems, to her ex-spouse, because as she herself manifests in her
claim, it was the old marital domicile, so your ex-spouse
appeared as the owner of the contracted services.

3. On the other hand, they verified that there were two headlines linked to the ID
***ID.1. Therefore, they made a correction in the data of their systems of
so that in this ID the claimant's contact currently appears as
owner and the contact his ex-spouse appears as "Old Owner". Definitely,
it appears as disconnected in their systems which implies that it cannot
access any of the data associated with the current owner.

4. They provide a copy of the letter addressed to the claimant on October 8, 2019, in the
which state that they proceeded to unlink the data of the other owner who
was associated with the services contracted for what currently appears
unlinked so that you can no longer access the information
associated with the services contracted by the claimant.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow considering

lawful processing of personal data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; personal data may be kept for longer periods
provided that they are treated exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with article
89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the conservation period");

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided for in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this
time, and without prejudice to what results from the investigation, it is considered proven that
in the defendant's systems, another person appeared as the owner of the contracted services.
headline.

It is noteworthy that the respondent acknowledges said error, stating that
there were two headlines linked to the ID ***ID.1. Therefore, they made a
correction of the data in their systems.

In short, a third party could access the claimant's data, that is,
had access to the information associated with the services contracted by the claimant
which implies the violation of article 5.1 d) of the RGPD, in relation to article 4.1
of the LOPDGDD, which governs the principle of accuracy of personal data.

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum.
or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional negligent action, but significant

active (article 83.2 b)

 Basic personal identifiers are affected, according to the article

83.2g)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.

START SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.
with NIF A80907397, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.d) of the RGPD
typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

1. APPOINT D.B.B.B. as instructor. and Ms. C.C.C. as secretary, indi-
whereby any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, of Ré-
Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

two.

INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim-
petition filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, the request
information that the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection sent to the
entity claimed in the preliminary investigation phase and its respective acknowledgment of
receipt.

3. THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1
bre, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations,
the sanction that could correspond would be 15,000 euros (fifteen thousand euros),
without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

4. NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A80907397, granting a hearing period of ten business days for
formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate.
In your statement of allegations, you must provide your NIF and the number of the procedure.
statement at the top of this document.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in the
Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event of
that the sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within
of the term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at 12,000 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 12,000 euros and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established at 9,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above, 12,000 euros or 9,000 euros, you must do so
cash by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened
on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
the date of the start-up agreement or, where applicable, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On June 30, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 9,000 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00139/2020, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

