1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00293/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On May 7, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by D.G. OF THE POLICE - COMMISSIONER
LOCAL DE LA LINEA (*hereinafter, the claimant), through which he formulates
claim against Mrs. A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one), for the
installation of a video surveillance system installed in ***ADDRESS.1 LA LINEA
DE LA CONCEPCIÓN, CÁDIZ, with indications of a possible breach of the
provided in art. 5.1 c) GDPR.

The reasons that support the claim and, where appropriate, the documents

provided by the claimant are the following:

 “installation of a camera oriented on the exterior facade” with the purpose of con-

control public space, without having an informative poster—folio nº 1--.

“Specifically, the Act signed by the acting parties is reiterated where it is verified
that the private home located at ***ADDRESS.1 of this locality, continue to install
all the video-surveillance cameras camouflaged in chimneys, facts that have already been
brought to the attention of that Agency through an Official Letter with DGP output record
No. XXXXX/2019 of ***DATE.1”.

Documentary evidence is attached (Annex I) that proves the presence of the camera.
ra with manifest orientation towards public space, stating that in the property
Activities related to the trafficking of prohibited substances are carried out.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD). The result of this action is
describes below.

“It does not make any reply in relation to the facts described”

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of August 7
of 2019.

FOURTH: On November 21, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 05/07/19, this Agency received a COMPLAINT from the D.G.Police
(La Línea Local Police Station) for the installation of a video surveillance system
installed in ***ADDRESS.1 --LA LINEA DE LA CONCEPCIÓN, CÁDIZ, existing
indications of a possible breach of the provisions of art. 5.1 c) GDPR.

Second. It is identified as the main person in charge of the installation Doña
A.A.A., being identified as such by the acting force.

Third. Based on the documentary evidence provided, the installation of a
video-surveillance camera, oriented towards public space, with the purpose of
control the public street next to the house.

As manifested by the acting force, the dwelling develops
activities related to drug trafficking, which is why it is installed
the system, allowing control of the public space.

Fourth. There is no evidence of the presence of an informative poster, adapted to the regulations in force,
informing of the person in charge before whom to exercise the rights recognized
in articles 15 to 22 RGPD.

Fifth. No explanation has been given despite the requirements of this
Agency, about the cause/reason for the presence of the camera, and its orientation towards
public space.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), recognizes each
Control Authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent
te to start and solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, a Complaint was received from the Security Forces and Bodies of the
State transferring as the main fact "the installation of a camera oriented on the facade-
da exterior” with the purpose of controlling public space, without having an informative poster.
tive.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

The facts described above may affect the content of the
art.5.1 c) RGPD. “Personal data will be:

      c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals can install video surveillance cameras
although they assume the responsibilities that they comply with the provisions
in force on the matter.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of the LOPDGDD,
referring specifically to the "Processing for video surveillance purposes", the treatment
ing of images in public places can only be carried out -if applicable and pre-
saw compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and Bodies
of Security, unless the exception established in the aforementioned article 22 operates
of the LOPDGDD for individuals or legal entities, public or private, respecting
do the conditions required in said article.

The camera(s) can only be oriented towards the main entrances of your
private home, without being able to obtain images of public and/or private space
third parties close to the home you own.

III

In accordance with the above, the treatment of images through a system
subject of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, you must comply with the
following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements contemplated
two in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the
protection of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or in the
inside, it may be necessary to ensure the security purpose the recording of
a portion of the public road. That is, cameras and camcorders installed with fi-
security officers will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is im-
dispensable for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said financing will also be collected.
ity. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the minimum portion-
mind necessary for the intended security purpose.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in the articles must be complied with.
12 and 13 of the RGPD, resulting from application -by not contradicting the provisions of the
aforementioned Regulation-, the manner provided for in article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of 8
of November, of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, on the Treatment
of Personal Data for Surveillance Purposes through Camera Systems or Vi-
deochambers.

Specifically, at least one distinction must be placed in video-monitored areas.
informative display located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces
as closed, which will identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts. Likewise, the information must be kept available to those affected.
to which the aforementioned RGPD refers.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- The installed cameras cannot obtain images from private space of
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can
affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. It's not per-
mitigated, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors with
the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the en-
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the public spaces
surrounding spaces, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space.
guarded man

In relation to the foregoing, to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to legislation on personal data protection
regulations, including the RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” / “nor-
tive”), as well as the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other finances.
ities, as well as the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available
ble in the “Guides and tools” section).

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out data processing of low
risk, the free tool Facilita (in the “Guides and tools” section), which
through specific questions, it allows to assess the situation of the person in charge
aspect of the processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate di-
verses documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with
indicative security measures considered minimal.

IV

The claim is based on the presumed illegality of the installation by the
called from a video surveillance system, made up of a number of cameras
determined (at least one) in the property located at ***ADDRESS.1 THE LINE OF THE

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

CONCEPCIÓN, CÁDIZ, which could capture images of public areas unintentionally.
provided.

In addition, the claimant warns that the reviewed property does not have

 sign
in which the presence of the cameras and the identity of the res-
responsible for data processing, so that interested persons can exercise
cite the rights provided for in arts. 15 to 22 of the GDPR.

 

Article 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides: “Documents
documents formalized by officials who are recognized as authorities
and in which, observing the corresponding legal requirements, the
facts verified by those will prove them unless it is proven
trary”

So the "illegality" of the camera (s) installed is considered proven
as it does not have an informative poster and is blatantly oriented towards public space.
public, in order to control it disproportionately.

v

The corrective powers of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data, as a control authority, are established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. In-
Among them are the power to sanction with a warning -article 58.2 b)-,
the power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD
-article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article
Article 58.2 d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than a sanction.
tion by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must, however, lend
special attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its character
intentional, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the degree
liability or any relevant prior violation, to the manner in which the authority
control authority has become aware of the infraction, compliance with measures
measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, adherence to codes of con-
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

It is identified as the owner of the home Doña A.A.A., whose personal data

nals provides the acting force.

The conduct described could involve the commission of an offense typified in

Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

 “Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
higher amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

When motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

-the nature of the infraction as it is affecting public space without cause

justified, controlling a wide space of the public street (art. 83.2a) RGPD).

-intentionality, which is marked by controlling access to public roads-
ca, to avoid police raids, being aware of the illegality of the measure
adopted (art. 83.2 b) RGPD).

It is taken into account that it is an individual, although the presence of the device
(s) has already been warned that it is an illegal measure, not knowing the ni-
level of income of the accused, so it is considered correct to impose a sanction
encrypted in the amount of €4,000 (Four Thousand Euros), as it is affecting with the
Mara to public space without just cause.

The accused party must also remove the camera pointing towards the road.
public or prove what is observed with it, providing impres-
screen version (eg with date and time).

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as a new administrative infraction in accordance with the provisions of the
RGPD, typified as an infringement in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such con-
conducts the opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE Mrs. A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €4,000 (Four
Thousand Euros), being punishable in accordance with art. 58.2 GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the defendant A.A.A. and inform
of the result of the proceedings to the denouncing party D.G. FROM THE POLICE   -
LOCAL COMMITTEE OF THE LINE.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

