press release

 

Data protection is also making its way in schools

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Erfurt, February 18, 2021

A CDU district administrator strengthens the Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and
freedom of information, dr. Lutz Hasse, your back, the wild growth of
to put a stop to the use of software in schools that is not permitted under data protection law
(Thüringer Allgemeine local edition Erfurter Allgemeine, 08.02.21 page 3, and TA im
Internet on February 7th, 2021).
 
And the Eichsfeld district administrator is not the only one who believes in the top Thuringian
Data protection officer jumps to the page here. Even those affected themselves – schoolchildren and
Teachers show their keen interest in numerous letters, despite
Corona pandemic and lockdown a minimum level of data protection and
Wanting to comply with data security when homeschooling.
 
At the end of January, the chairman of the Thuringian teachers' association, Mr. Busch,
Minister of Education Holter reprimanded for his lack of "role model" because of this
only recommends the schools to use the Thuringian school cloud, but even a "live
Conversation on the Instagram platform belonging to the US Facebook group
(Freie Wort Suhl, January 23, 2021, p. 2).
 
And now a high school student is also reprimanding the Thuringian
Minister of Education Holter et al. with the words: "This gross, knowing attack of the
Minister of Education on protecting our privacy must not go without consequences
stay". (Thüringer Allgemeine, local edition Erfurt from February 18th, 2021, page 2).
 
dr Hasse: “Of course it is clear to me that school operations in the current situation
must be continued with digital means. Nevertheless, fundamental rights are not allowed for this
being thrown overboard by students and teachers. Just in
School operations should have high priority on data protection. My goal is for youngsters
to raise awareness of the importance of their own data so that they do not take it lightly
Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
Fax: 0361 57 3112904
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

inform the schools

 
 
jeopardize the protection of their privacy. Lousy software tracks, collects
Data from all kinds of other sources (e.g. social networks) and manufactures
uncontrolled profiles that are currently and later used against those affected themselves
can be - and without you noticing it!
my authority
continued actively and concretely about
Possible solutions, but also to absolute "NO-GOs" in digital school operations.
A series of video conferences is also proving to be very promising
ThILLM with school administrations: School administrations can contact me and mine directly there
Replace staff to solve digital school problems immediately.
There will also be an FAQ catalog for this.
Data protection is not only my job, but this protection of fundamental rights is one for me
matter of the heart. The sensitivity to data protection or the protection of
Privacy, especially that of children, is developing rapidly; a delicate one
It's still a little plant that needs care, especially on the part of politicians. here
is about digital services of general interest. I'm optimistic that together we can
will find the right path.”
 
 

 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

 

