1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00293/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated January 30, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The
The reasons on which the claim is based are the installation of a video camera system.
deo-surveillance oriented towards public space (terrace area) without having the
authorization required in these cases, exceeding the control towards transit areas
public without just cause.

Along with the claim, provide sufficient evidence that proves the presence of the

cameras outside the establishment object of the complaint (Annex Doc. I).
SECOND: On 03/05/20, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the party
reported.
THIRD. On 06/18/20, a reply was received from Doña C.C.C., stating
be the owner of the property, although it is leased to Mr.
B.B.B., which has a Pub Café business (Pub Shiva), it should be clear
that any breach of the regulations in force regarding the protection of
data belongs to the lessee, being the main responsible for the installation of the
cameras.
FOURTH: On December 30, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, with
glo to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Pro-
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.
FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations (02/16/21) in which, in summary, it stated the following:

“That we have come to reject as inadmissible the complaint made by the
claimant, since the facts formulated are not true, specifically that the installation
of the cameras has been carried out by a professional company such as Todo Seguridad
SL

None of the cameras installed by the company Todo Seguridad S.L
does not comply with any regulations, being oriented towards private spaces and not
neighbors, with a correct operation.

In addition, the facility has a poster informing of the existence of
same (...) And the neighbors have never made a call, only to the subscriber,
but to the company Todo Seguridad S.L.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

Note that due to the pandemic the establishment is closed

from March 13 to February 12, 2021 (…)”
Along with the allegations, the following attached documentation is attached:

-Doc. Nº 1 Book Catalog of Installation and Revision of the establishment Pub

Shiva Club Music.

-Doc. No. 2 Photographs, where the orientation of the cameras is observed, as well

such as the billboards and telephone numbers of Todo Seguridad, S.L..

SIXTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the
procedure, remembering the full accessibility to the documentation of this
Administrative file.

SEVENTH: On 02/19/21, a “Resolution Proposal” is issued by means of which
the described infraction is confirmed, considering the art. 5.1 c) GDPR,
proposing a penalty of €1,500, lacking the establishment of a cartel
informative duly homologated to the regulations in force.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 01/30/20 a claim is received through which the
The main fact is the following:

“Installation of a video-surveillance camera system facing the
public space (terrace area) without the authorization required in these cases.
overstepping control into public transit areas without just cause” (fo-
mess no. 1).

Second. It is identified as the main responsible Don B.B.B., who denies the
facts claimed.

Third. The defendant has a video-surveillance system for the security of
the workers (porters) of the Pub Shiva Music Club establishment, whose installation
is run by the company Todo Seguridad S.L.

A copy of the contract with the company-Todo Seguridad S.L—dated
05/07/17 whose Condition No. 5 contains the necessary references to the obligations of the
claimed in terms of data protection.

Fourth. It is proven that the defendant has a cartel, but it is not
the poster approved in terms of data protection, limiting itself to information
sea of the installation company, but not of the "responsible for the treatment".

The poster provided only informs about the private security of the establishment,

but it does not contain the information required in art. 13 GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

Fifth. Excessive recording of public transit area is verified, specifically:

-Photogram No. 1 (Proof Annex II) allows capturing the width of the sidewalk, affected

ting to the adjoining properties.

-Photogram No. 3 (Proof Annex II) allows capturing the parallel street, observing

including the vehicle parked in the nearby area.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 01/30/20 is examined by me-
from which the existence of cameras installed with orientation towards
public space (terrace area) without having the authorization required in these cases.
sos, overstepping control into public transit areas without just cause.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed” (“data minimization”).

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative sign.
tive, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

Establishments must have the corresponding forms available.
position of the clients and inspection authorities that, in their case, may require
them, facilitating the exercise of their rights if necessary.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

With this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of public space either.
co, as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies
ted.
It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, that they are inti-
measured by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

III

On 02/16/21, a written statement was received from the respondent by means of which
manifests “denying the facts imputed to him” arguing that he has an internal cartel.
training where it is indicated that it is a video-monitored area.

In support of his claim, he provides a photograph (Proof Document Annex II) that
allows us to verify that the installed sign is a sign of the installation company, but that
it does not adapt to the regulations on data protection, by not informing
sea of the data controller for the appropriate legal purposes.

The citizen must know who is responsible for the cameras and can demand

turn so much that the images in which it appears as asking for a copy are erased.

Therefore, this first infraction in the matter that

we are dealing with, as we do not have an approved poster adapted to the regulations in force.

As a second issue to examine, the complainant considers that the chambers
Exteriors disproportionately obtain images of public transit areas.
co, which may affect your right to image (personal data).

The defendant denies the accusations, providing a photograph of what is captured

with the cameras object of denunciation.

After examining them, it is considered excessive what is captured with the
same, given that although the façade area of the establishment is captured, it also
allows control of the traffic zone and adjacent public space without just cause,
observing even the cars parked in a nearby area.

Security cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain
images of public spaces, the security function of public spaces
corresponds exclusively to the State Security Forces and Bodies.

Article 22 section 2 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides the

Next:

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is

essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

The installed cameras invade the space of third parties (passers-by) who transit
so through the public area, when entering their visual field in a way
excessive, being captured without their informed consent as the cartel is "irregular"
informative installed that does not inform of the person in charge of the treatment, nor of the way of
exercise the rights in your case.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

The purpose of this type of video-surveillance systems is the protection of the
establishment against hypothetical robberies with force in things, activating the alarm
corresponding and obtaining images of the assailants in his case, not to proceed to
carry out excessive control of the area adjacent to the establishment, in such a way
that images of neighboring neighbors be captured and stored.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the defendant, for
violation of the content of art. 5.1 c) RGPD, previously cited, so it is
considers the imputed infraction proven, regardless of the responsibility
that in his case the installation company may be required by the claimant himself in his
case.

IV

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the following provisions
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20
EUR 000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount.
to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

When motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

-the nature of the infraction since a video-surveillance system has been installed,

affecting the right of third parties without just cause (art. 83.2 a) RGPD).

- the intentionality or negligence in the infraction, being oriented towards the
of public transit without just cause, which makes negligence be considered as
serious (art. 83.2 b) RGPD).

For all this, it is agreed to impose a sanction encrypted in the amount of €1,500
(One thousand five hundred euros), for the installation of a series of cameras, which are affecting
to a public transit area, without just cause, lacking a homologous sign.
attached to the appropriate legal effects, a sanction located on the lowest scale for this
type of offenses.

All this without prejudice to accrediting the regularization of the installed system, accre-
stating such end through documentary evidence (eg photograph with date and time), of the
compliance with all the requirements set by the regulations in force, indicated in
the website of this body www.aepd.es.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of Article 5.1.c)
of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a fine of €1,500 (one thousand
Five hundred euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. and REPORT the result
of performances to A.A.A..

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

