Eu 'OPP in Ddtc1  Protection Board 

Reference: SH-342-2018 

Angelene Falk 
Australian Information Commissioner and Privacy Commissioner 
By email only 

Subject: Co-operation with the European Data Protection Board (02018/010231) 

Brussels, 23 January 2019 

Dear Ms. Falk, 

I  would like to thank you again for your letter of 16 October 2018 and for your question related to the 
publication of the data breach notification. I  would like to assure you that international collaboration 
is equally valued on my end. I  especially welcome your interest to cooperate with the European Data 
Protection Board (EDPB). 

As you know, the predecessor of the EDPB, the Article 29 Working Party, has adopted guidelines on 
the notification of personal data breaches. These guidelines were endorsed by the Board and they 
give a  general overview on the interpretation of Article 33-34 of the EU General Data  Protection 
Regulation (GDPR). We have enclosed them for your convenience, but you can find these and all other 
EDPB  guidelines  on  our website,  through  the  following  link:  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work  
tools/gene ra I-gu ida nce/gd pr-guidelines-recommendations-best-practices  en. 

For your information, the GDPR provides for a duty to communicate the breach to the individuals 
when the breach  is  likely to result in a  high risk to their rights and freedoms.  The Supervisory 
authorities may intervene to order this communication, where needed. 

With regard to your question on transparency of data breach notifications received by supervisory 
authorities, the guidelines do not provide an answer, as the GDPR is silent on whether supervisory 
authorities can publish the notified data breaches. To be able to provide you with a detailed answer, 
I  have gathered input from the members of the EDPB about their national practices. 

Having summarised the replies, we have concluded that national data protection rules do not foresee 
any provisions  in  relation  to the  publication  of notified  data  breaches.  According to currently 
applicable national practises, supervisory authorities (SAs) can be divided in two groups: 

1.  SAs which do not make publicly available any information related to the notification of data 

breaches; 

2.  SAs which publish statistics or general information about data breaches that do not allow the 

controller to be identified. 

The replies were similar in the fact that,  as a  general  rule, the name of the controller was not 
published. 

Andrea Jelinek 
Chair of the European Data Protection Board 

rue Wiertz, 60 
I  04 7 Brussels 

As regards the second group, the general information published may contain data, such as: 

European Data Protection Board 

date of the notification, 
date of the breach, 
nature of the breach, 
number of data subjects concerned, 
category of data concerned, and 
category of data subjects concerned. 

The statistics are made publicly available on an annual  basis or once  per quarter.  According to 
Article 59 of the GDPR, supervisory authorities shall draw up an annual report on its activities and this 
annual report may include a list of types of infringement notified. Some of the supervisory authorities 
make available to the public the statistics and general information on data breaches notified in the 
annual report. 

Please  let me  add  that different rules  apply  if a  national  supervisory  authority  launches  an 
investigation  on the  bases  of a  data  breach  notification.  ln this  case,  some of the supervisory 
authorities are obliged by law to publish the result of the procedure including the name of the 
controller. Additionally, please note that my reply does not cover the issue of requests submitted in 
application of national access to information laws. 

The practice currently followed in Australia and the EU is quite similar as data breaches have to be 
notified  to  the  competent authority who  may  publish  statistical  reports  without allowing  the 
controller to be identified. One of the main purposes of the data breach notification to the individuals 
and the supervisory authorities is to limit the damage caused to individuals by the data breach. The 
legislator obliges the controller to do deep fact-finding and to take all the necessary steps to mitigate 
the damage within a short time limit and this, under the supervision of the authority. My anticipation 
is that the systematic publication of the name of the controller by the supervisory authorities might 
have as adverse effect that the controller would abstain from notifying the authority to preserve its 
reputation. 

I  hope that the information provided will help you and I am looking forward to our fruitful cooperation 
in the future. 

j 

Andrea Jel nek 

ln copy: Sophie Higgins, Director, Regulation and Strategy Branch (Sophie.Higgins@oaic.gov.au) 

Andrea Jelinek 
Chair of the European Data Protection Board 

me Wiertz, 60 
I  04 7 Brussels 

