 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Opinion  4/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Malta regarding the approval of the 
requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 
 

Adopted on 3 February 2023 

 

 

Adopted  

1 

Table of contents 

1 
2 

3 
4 
 

 

Summary of the Facts ................................................................................................................... 4 
Assessment .................................................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ............................... 4 
2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 
2.2.1 
PREFIX ........................................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2 
GENERAL REMARKS ....................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.3 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION .......................................................... 6 
2.2.4 
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS .......................................................................................... 8 
2.2.5 
PROCESS REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................. 9 
Conclusions / Recommendations ............................................................................................... 10 
Final Remarks ............................................................................................................................. 11 

 

Adopted  

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3) While requirements for accreditation  are subject  to  the consistency mechanism, this does not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679” will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not 

                                                             

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted  

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO/IEC 17065 
which will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

The Office of the Information and Data Protection Commissioner (hereinafter “MT SA”) has submitted 
its draft accreditation requirements under  Art. 43 (1)(b) GDPR to  the EDPB. The file was deemed 
complete on 27 October 2022. The National Accreditation Board (Malta), as national accreditation 
body (NAB), will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify the use of GDPR certification 
criteria. This means that the NAB will use ISO/IEC 17065 and the additional requirements set out by 
the MT SA, once they are approved by the MT SA, following an opinion from the Board on the draft 
requirements, to accredit certification bodies.  

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

3. 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body  or  a  SA,  as  per  Art. 43(1)  GDPR,  to  accredit  a  certification  body  responsible  for  issuing  and 
renewing certification in accordance with Art. 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case,  the Board notes that the Maltese national law 
prescribes  that  its  NAB  is  responsible  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation.  The  MT  SA  has  therefore 
drafted additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB 
                                                             

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, para. 39. Available at: https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en  
 

4 

Adopted  

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

when issuing accreditation. To this end, the MT SA has developed a set of requirements specifically 
for accreditation of certification bodies in conjunction with a set of certification criteria that is yet to 
be formally approved. 

This assessment of MT SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 
Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO/IEC 17065, are subject to intellectual property 
rights, and will therefore not refer to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a result, the 
Board  decided  to,  where  relevant,  point  towards  specific  sections  of  the  ISO  Standard,  without, 
however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the MT 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and 
not asking the MT SA to take further action.  

This Opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the MT SA, which are outside the scope of Art. 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 
2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a.  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

independence of the certification body 

b. 
c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

d.  expertise of the certification body 
e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

5 

Adopted  

g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

10. 

a.  Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body need to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  PREFIX  

11. 

The Board acknowledges the fact that terms of cooperation regulating the relationship between a NAB 
and the SA are not a requirement for the accreditation of certification bodies per se. However, for 
reasons  of  completeness  and  transparency,  the  Board  considers  that  such  terms  of  cooperation, 
where existing, shall be made public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.  

2.2.2  GENERAL REMARKS 

12.  Under the section “terms and definitions” the Board notes that the draft accreditation requirements 
state  that  terms  and  definitions  of  the  EDPB  Guidelines  on  accreditation  and  Guidelines  on 
certification shall apply and have precedence over ISO definitions, but there is no reference to the 
definitions used for the same concepts in the GDPR. Thus, the Board recommends the MT SA to also 
include reference to the terms and definitions of the GDPR.  

13. 

For  completeness  and  consistency  purposes,  the  Board  encourages  the  MT  SA  to  make  sure  that 
throughout the requirements the term “target of evaluation” is used in order to ensure clear and 
consistent wording thorough the text.   

2.2.3  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION  

 

Adopted  

6 

14.  Concerning subsection 4.1.1 of the MT SA’s draft accreditation requirements (Legal responsibility), the 
Board considers that the certification body shall be able to demonstrate evidence of GDPR compliant 
procedures and measures specifically for controlling and handling client organisation’s personal data 
as  part  of  the  certification  process.  To  that  end,  the  Board  notes  that  MT  SA  refers  only  to  the 
“applicant” (no reference to the “client” is made), which may be confusing as the same criteria should 
be applicable for the renewal of accreditation. Therefore, the Board recommends that the MT SA 
amends the draft requirements accordingly. 

15.  Also, in this subsection (Legal responsibility), the Board notes the requirement for the certification 
body to confirm with the NAB that they are not subject to any investigation or regulatory action by 
the  MT  SA  in  relation  to  the  target  of  evaluation,  which  may  mean  that  they  do  not  meet  this 
requirement and therefore might prevent their accreditation. This requirement further on provides 
some ambiguity when it does not give clear criteria (saying “where appropriate”) on the situations in 
which the NAB may contact the MT SA in order to verify this information. To that end, the Board 
recommends  to  the  MT  SA  to  ensure  further  clarification  and  specify  clear  conditions  for  this 
procedure. 

16. 

17. 

In addition to that, the Board is of the opinion that subsection 4.1.1 of the MT SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements,  regarding  the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  inform  the  NAB  of  “any” 
infringements of the GDPR or of national data protection legislation which may affect its accreditation, 
should be further clarified, taking into account the above-mentioned requirement that certification 
body should confirm to the NAB that they are not subject to any investigation or regulatory action by 
the MT SA in relation to the target of evaluation. Thus, the Board considers that this obligation should 
refer to infringements established by the MT SA and/or judicial authorities and recommends the MT 
SA to makes such clarification. 

Further on, concerning subsection 4.1.1 of the MT SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board 
notes that the certification body shall be required to inform the MT SA prior to issuing or renewing a 
certification and to that end, requirements are referring to Art. 43(1) GDPR. At the same time, the 
Board notes  that the MT  SA’s draft  accreditation requirements in point 7.6 further  elaborate this 
requirement  for  the  certification  body.  Thus,  the  Board  encourages  the  MT  SA  to  include  in  this 
subsection  the  reference  on  the  last  sentence  of  point  7.6  of  the  accreditation  requirements,  in 
addition to the already existing one related to Art. 43(1) GDPR. 

18.  Under section 4.1.2 (i) of the MT SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board takes note of the 
obligation  to  explain  the  consequences  of  withdrawal  or  suspension  of  accreditation  for  the 
certification body and how this impacts the client. The Board understands that the intention of the 
MT SA is to ensure that the client is aware of the consequences in those situations and of the potential 
options or actions that can be  taken. However, the Board considers that, in order to ensure that 
certification agreements accurately reflect not only the consequences and impacts on the client, but 
also the potential further actions, the MT SA’s accreditation requirements should make clear that 
simply stating the consequences without addressing the potential next steps will not be sufficient. 
Thus, the EDPB encourages the MT SA to make clear in its accreditation requirements that the clients 
should be aware of the consequences, the impact they have on them and the potential next steps that 
may be taken. 

19.  Regarding section 4.1.2 (j) of the MT SA’s accreditation requirements, the Board notes the inclusion 
of the requirement to inform the certification body in the event of significant changes in its factual or 
legal  situation  and  in  its  processing  operations  covered  by  the  certification.  However,  the  MT  SA 

7 

Adopted  

omitted a reference to “products, processes and services”, as stated in the Annex. The Board therefore 
recommends the MT SA to align the wording with the Annex. 

20.  Regarding the requirements related to the content of the Certification agreement listed in section 
4.1.2, the Board notes that point 10 of section 4.1.2. of the Annex, as reflected in point 4.1.2 (j) of the 
MT SA’s draft requirements, requires the applicant to inform the certification body in the event of 
significant changes in its actual or legal situation and in its products, processes and services concerned 
by  the  certification.  The  Board  considers  that  these  changes  shall  include  the  obligation  of  the 
applicant to inform the certification body of any infringements of the GDPR established by the MT SA 
and/or judicial authorities that may affect certification. Indeed, such requirement is foreseen further 
in the text of the requirements (section 7.10 (e) of the requirements). However, for the sake of clarity, 
the Board recommends to the MT SA to include explicitly this point in this section of the requirements. 

21.  With respect to the section 4.2 “Management of impartiality”, the Board notes the obligation to lay 
down  rules  preventing  conflicts  of  interest.  The  Board  acknowledges  the  importance  to  have 
requirements that ensure, firstly, that there are no conflicts of interests and, secondly, in case conflicts 
of interest are identified, that the certification body manages them. Therefore, the Board encourages 
the MT SA to clarify that, in addition to having rules preventing conflicts of interest, there should be 
clear rules to manage identified conflicts of interests. 

22.  Regarding  section  4.6  of  the  MT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  certification  body  is 

required to:  

a. publish and make easily publicly available all versions (current and previous) of the approved criteria 
used within the meaning of Art. 42(5) GDPR, as well as all certification procedures, generally stating 
the respective period of validity; and  

b.  provide  information  about  complaints  handling  procedures  and  appeals  is  transparent  to  data 
subjects and the public pursuant to Art. 43(2)(d) GDPR.  

The  Board  recommends  to  the  MT  SA  to  add  in  the  requirements  that  this  information  shall  be 
provided at minimum, according to section 4.6 of the ISO/IEC 17065/2012 and in line with section 4.6 
of the Annex. 

23. 

In  order  to  avoid  inaccuracies,  possible  different  understandings  and  interpretations  of  the 
requirement for publicly available information relating to complaint handling procedures and appeals, 
the Board recommends to the MT SA to align the wording of section 4.6 (b) of the MT SA’s draft 
accreditation requirement with the Annex. 

2.2.4  RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS  

24.  Regarding section 6.1 (f) of the MT SA’s draft accreditation requirements, with respect to the second 
bullet point of the subsection relating to the personnel with technical expertise, the Board refers to 
the sentence by which it is prescribed  that  “personnel responsible for certification decisions shall 
demonstrate  at  least  two  years  professional  experience  in  data  protection  law”.  Considering  this 
section of requirements is addressed to the personnel with technical expertise, the Board consider 
reference to experience in data protection “law” inaccurate and recommends the MT SA to align the 
wording with the Annex. 

25.  Also, regarding section 6.1 (f) of the MT SA’s draft accreditation requirements, with respect to the 
third bullet point of the subsection relating to the personnel with legal expertise, the Board refers to 
8 

Adopted  

the sentence by which it is prescribed that “personnel responsible for evaluations must demonstrate 
at least two years of professional experience in data protection law and knowledge and experience in 
technical data protection”. Considering this section of requirements is addressed to the personnel 
with  legal  expertise  the  Board  consider  reference  to  “experience  in  technical  data  protection” 
inaccurate and recommends the MT SA to align the wording with the Annex. 

26.  As  regards  the  requirements  for  personnel  responsible  for  evaluations,  in  subsection  related  to 
personnel  with  technical  expertise,  the  Board  recommends  the  MT  SA  to  refer  to  professional 
experience in “technical” data protection. 

2.2.5  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS  

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

Taking into account that section 7 of the MT SA’s draft accreditation requirements concerns process 
requirements and sets certain requirements for the NAB, the Board encourages the MT SA to rephrase 
section  7.1  (d)  in  such  a  way  as  to  replace  the  words  "carries  out  an  investigation"  with  “have 
established procedures to investigate”. 

The  Board  notes  that  section  7.2  of  the  MT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“Application”) 
concerns obligations imposed on the applicants towards the certification body. To that end, the Board 
recommends to the MT SA to rephrase the first paragraph of this section as follows: “In addition to 
clause 7(2) of ISO 17065, the certification body shall require from the applicant to […]" 

The  Board  notes  that  section  7.2  of  the  MT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“Application”) 
contains a reference to the controller/processor contract(s) and their specific arrangements. While 
acknowledging that the MT SA has used the wording of the Annex, the Board encourages the MT SA 
to include a reference to joint controllers and their specific arrangements. 

Furthermore, the Board recommends to the MT SA to rephrase the section 7.2 (c) in a way to delete 
the reference to “the certification body” so that it is clear from the text that this obligation primarily 
refers to the applicant’s obligation during the application stage and fulfilment of which should be 
checked by the certification body.  

31.  Regarding section 7.2 (c) (“Application”) of the MT SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board 
notes that it includes the obligation to provide information regarding “any current investigation or 
regulatory action of the Malta SA to which the applicant is or has been subject”. The Board is of the 
opinion that this obligation should be tailored to investigations or regulatory actions related to the 
scope of the certification and the target of evaluation. Therefore, the Board encourages the MT SA to 
clarify that the investigation or regulatory action should be related to the scope of certification and 
the target of evaluation. 

32. 

The Board notes that the clarification on the requirement relating to the data protection certification 
in accordance with Art. 42 and 43 GDPR, which already covers part of the object of certification, 
according  to  which  “a  certification  statement  or  similar  certification  certificates  should  not  be 
considered sufficient to replace a report” (section 7.4 of the Annex) is not included in the MT SA’s 
draft requirements. Thus, the Board recommends that the MT SA includes it in the requirement. 

33.  Concerning  third  paragraph  of  the  section  7.6  of  the  MT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements 
(“Certification decision”), the Board notes that the certification body shall be required, in addition to 
the checks carried out at application stage, prior to issuing certification, to confirm with the applicant 
that they are not the subject of any investigation or regulatory action by the MT SA, by any other 

9 

Adopted  

supervisory  authority  and,  or  by  competent  judicial  authorities  in  relation  to  the  object  of  the 
certification which might prevent certification being issued. Further in the text it is foreseen that the 
applicant's statement can be confirmed with the MT SA not only prior to issuing, but also prior to the 
renewing of certification. Therefore, the Board encourages that the MT SA amends this inconsistency. 

34.  Regarding  first  paragraph  of  the  section  7.8  of  the  MT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements 
(“Directory of certified product”) the Board notes the requirement that records of the certifications 
issued, including information about the certification mechanism and how long the certifications are 
valid for shall be publicly available and thus, in principle, it could be concluded that this implies an 
requirement  to  keep  this  information  also  internally  but  at  the  same  time,  for  the  purpose  of 
consistency and clarity, Board encourages MT SA to align the wording with the Annex. 

35. 

In  addition,  the  Board  notes  that  this  section  contains  clear  requirements  aimed  at  helping  with 
transparency on what has been certified and how it was assessed, to that end, for the purpose of 
clarity and alignment with Annex the Board encourages the MT SA to delete the words “on which 
basis” from the first paragraph of the section 7.8. 

36. 

In order to ensure clarity, the Board encourages the MT SA to align the wording in section 7.10 (c) and 
(d) of the draft accreditation requirements with the Annex. 

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

37. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the MT Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

38.  Regarding ‘general remarks’, the Board recommends that the MT SA: 

1)  includes references to the terms and definitions of the GDPR 

39.  Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the MT SA: 

2)  amend subsection 4.1.1 in line with the remarks made in paragraphs 13 and 14 of the 

Opinion; 

3)  makes clarification in subsection 4.1.1 of the draft accreditation requirements that the 
obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  inform  the  NAB  on  infringements  of  the  GDPR 
should  refer  to  infringements  established  by  the  MT  SA  and/or  judicial  authorities  in 
relation to the target of evaluation; 

4)  align the wording of section 4.1.2 (j) of the accreditation requirements with the Annex; 
5)  include  the  point  relating  to  applicant  informing  the  certification  body  of  any 
infringements of the GDPR established by the MT SA and/or judicial authorities that may 
affect certification in subsection 4.1.2 of the requirements; 

6)  align the wording of section 4.6 (b) with the Annex. 

40.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the MT SA: 

1)  align the wording of second bullet point of the section 6.1 (f) relating to the personnel 

with technical expertise with the Annex; 

10 

Adopted  

2)  align the wording of third bullet point of the section 6.1 (f) relating to the personnel with 

legal expertise with the Annex; 

3)  align the wording of third bullet point of the section 6.1 (f) of the subsection relating to 

the personnel with technical expertise with the Annex. 

41.  Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the MT SA: 

1)  amend section 7.2 in line with the remarks made in paragraphs 27 and 29 of this Opinion 
2)  to include in draft accreditation requirements the sentence of section 7.4 of the Annex 
which stipulates that “a certification statement or similar certification certificates should 
not be considered sufficient to replace a report”. 

3)  amend section 7.6, third paragraph of the draft accreditation requirements in a way which 

clearly points that the intended procedure applies also to the renewing of certification. 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

42. 

This opinion is addressed to the MT SA and will be made public pursuant to Art. 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

43.  According to Art. 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the MT SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

44. 

The MT SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with Art. 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted  

11 

