Ms. Birgit Sippel MEP
European Parliament
60, Rue Wiertz
B-1047 Bruxelles
Belgium

Dear Ms Sippel,

28 August 2020

Ref: OUT2020-0103

Thank you for your letter dated 08 May 2020 regarding the enforcement of the GDPR against public
authorities. In the context of the Covid-19 crisis, this issue has gained importance.

The enforcement of the GDPR lies within the competence of the national supervisory authorities. The
Board itself cannot carry out any enforcement activities against public authorities in the Member
States.

According to Art. 70 GDPR the role of the EDPB is to ensure the consistent application of the GDPR. To
this  end, the tasks  of  the Board include monitoring and  ensuring the  correct  application  of  this
Regulation in the cases provided for in Articles 64 and 65 GDPR without prejudice to the tasks of
national  supervisory  authorities, and  promoting  the  cooperation  and  the  effective  bilateral  and
multilateral exchange of information and best practices between the supervisory authorities.

To fulfil these tasks the Board has inter alia established the Enforcement Expert Subgroup. Within this
Expert  Subgroup  the  representatives  of  the  national supervisory  authorities exchange regularly
information on matters of the enforcement of the GDPR in the Member States.

In the context of the enforcement of the GDPR administrative fines and other corrective powers have
to be distinguished. Art. 83(7) GDPR contains an opening clause which allows the Member States to
lay down rules in national laws on whether and to what extent administrative fines may be imposed
on public authorities and bodies. Some Member States exercised this opening clause and excluded
the possibility to impose fines on public authorities and bodies in their national legislations. Therefore,
not in all Member States public authorities can be sanctioned by administrative fines. In contrast,
Article  58(2)  GDPR  does  not  provide  an  opening  clause  in  terms  of other corrective  powers  of
supervisory authorities. Thus, to the extent known, corrective powers pursuant to Article 58(2) GDPR
different from fines can be issued against public authorities in all Member States. This also applies to
German  data  protection  authorities  with  the  limitation,  however,  that  under  the  federal  data

1

protection law and the national data protection law of the German Laender nearly all supervisory
authorities are not entitled to enforce corrective powers towards ministries or other state authorities
in the event these authorities do not comply with corrective measures.

So far, the exchange of information in the Enforcement Expert Subgroup has not shown a general lack
of powers endowed to national supervisory authorities to effectively issue corrective powers pursuant
to Article 58(2) GDPR. Constraints like in the concrete case to which you refer in your letter have not
been reported by other Member States.

The EDPB will continue to monitor the enforcement of the GDPR in the Member States. Within the
scope  of  its  competence  the  Board  will  examine  any  question  which  arise  in  the  context  of  the
enforcement of the GDPR.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

2

