1/10

968-150719

 Procedure No.: PS/00421/2019

RESOLUTION R/00130/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00421/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., in view of the
claim filed by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On December 3, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
ESPAÑA, S.A.U.. Having notified the initiation agreement and after analyzing the allegations
presented, on February 4, 2020, the resolution proposal was issued that
is transcribed below:

<<

Procedure no.: PS/00426/2019
926-240120

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated June 2, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against Vodafone España, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397
(hereinafter, the claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following: that the claimed party has sent a text message to his mobile number
indicating that a contract has been made with your telephone number and data
from your home.

Add, that the user data, name and e-mail do not match yours,
but the registration data coincides with your mobile phone and your address not being a customer
of the claimed.

And, among other things, it provides the following documentation:
• SMS screenshot received “Resumen de tu compra”, in which you are informed of
the installation data: order number, date of sale June 2, 2019,
name, surnames, address and e-mail.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced and the documents provided by
the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection requests information from the
claimed, through two separate writings dated July 16 and October 3, 2019 and,
with date of acceptance by electronic means on July 22 and October 7 of the
same year, without the aforementioned entity having provided the requested information.

However, after the one month period granted in the first of the
notifications and ten days in the second, the respondent did not answer within said
deadlines.

Well, on November 19, 2019, the respondent states the
following: “My client proceeded to make the necessary corrections in his
systems in order to update the data that existed in relation to D. A.A.A.

Once this error in the data matching described by the claimant in
your complaint, a letter has been sent D. A.A.A. informing you of the solution
adopted, which is attached as Document number 1.

 After analyzing the claim and carrying out the appropriate internal investigations
We have verified that the data related to D. A.A.A., a former client of
Vodafone, had come across the data of a current client when migrating the systems
of ONO “Smart”.

With all this, we confirm that it is a computer error due to the crossing of
data, because the claimant and the current client shared the same ID (Id:
***ID.1).

After learning of the facts, corrections were made.
necessary in the system as well as to solve the errors derived from the crossing of data
so that the error does not persist any longer in the system and does not occur
no further communication that is not appropriate.

Therefore, the data related to D.
A.A.A., not currently appearing any data related to his person in the
vodafone systems

THIRD: On December 3, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it states that the situation arose because the
claimant while he was a Vodafone customer had a specific ID associated with it, which, after
cease to be a Vodafone customer associated with another customer. That is, they shared
same id Given this, after confirming the error in the system due to migration, he acted
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

with extreme speed, solving the error. Hence, in the conduct described
no intentionality concurs, neither by way of fraud, nor by way of fault.

For all these reasons, it is appropriate for the AEPD to agree to the dismissal of this
file and the file of the actions or subsidiarily, impose a sanction
for minor infraction in its minimum degree.
SIXTH: On January 10, 2020, the test practice period began,
remembering: 1. Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the complaint filed
by the claimant and her documentation, the documents obtained and generated that
are part of the file and 2. Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the
allegations to the initiation agreement of PS/00421/2019, presented by the entity
reported.
SEVENTH: Of the information and documentation provided by the parties in this
procedure, the following facts are accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

THIRD: From the documentation provided by the claimant, it appears that
Next:

1.- It is stated that the claimant has received an SMS from the claimed party on his mobile
reporting a contract made on behalf of a third party. Although the name
surnames and e-mail belong to said third party, the mobile phone number and the
postal address that appear in the contract made, coincide with that of the
claimant.

2.- The defendant acknowledges said error and states that it is an error
computerized by data crossing, because the claimant and the current client
They shared the same identifier.

SIXTH: Attached as an Annex is a list of documents in the
process.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Spanish Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the
RGPD and in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of the
Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it carried out the treatment of the
personal data of the claimant without their consent. The personal data of
claimant were incorporated into the company's information systems, without
has accredited that he had his consent for the collection and treatment
later of your personal data.

    The Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in
assumptions such as the one presented here, has considered that when the owner of the
data denies the hiring, the burden of proof corresponds to those who affirm their
existence, and the third-party data controller must collect and
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

keep the necessary documentation to prove the consent of the holder.
We cite, for all, the SAN of 05/31/2006 (Rec. 539/2004), Basis of Law
Fourth.

The personal data of the claimant were registered in the files of the
claimed and were treated for the issuance of emails. In
consequently, has carried out a treatment of personal data without having
accredited that it has the consent of the latter for its treatment, nor that
have the legal authorization to do so.

However, and this is essential, the defendant does not prove legal standing to

the processing of the claimant's data.

In short, the respondent has not provided a document or evidence
one that shows that the entity, in such a situation, would have deployed the
minimum diligence required to verify that your interlocutor was indeed the one who
claimed to hold

Respect for the principle of legality that is in the essence of the fundamental right
of protection of personal data requires that it be accredited that the
responsible for the treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that
extreme. Failure to act in this way -and this Agency, who is responsible for ensuring
for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal character - the result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

 

IV

In accordance with the provisions of the RGPD in its art. 83.1 and 83.2, when deciding the
imposition of an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case will be
taking into account the aggravating and mitigating factors listed in the article
indicated, as well as any other that may be applicable to the circumstances of the
case.

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

          "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing

personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of

the infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the sanction of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in article 83.5.a) of the
RGPD for which the claimant is responsible, the following are considered concurrent
factors:

As aggravating criteria:

- In the present case we are dealing with an unintentional negligent action, but

significant identified (article 83.2b).

- Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, a number of

identification, the line identifier) (paragraph g).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 6, it allows setting a
sanction of 50,000 euros (fifty thousand euros), typified as "very serious", for the purposes of
prescription thereof, in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD.

            In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for an infringement of Article 6 of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €50,000.00 (FIFTY THOUSAND
euros).

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
informs that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which will entail
a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same. With the application of this reduction, the
sanction would be established at 40,000.00 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process. The effectiveness of this reduction will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount specified
above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited, must make it effective
by depositing it in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A.,
indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the cause, by voluntary payment, of reduction of the
amount of the penalty. Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the Subdirectorate
General Inspection to proceed to close the file.

By virtue thereof, the foregoing is notified, and the
procedure so that within TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider in your
defense and present the documents and information that it considers pertinent, in accordance
with article 89.2 in relation to art. 73.1 of the LPACAP).
RRR
INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

File Index PS_00421_2019

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

06-02-2019 Claim from A.A.A. 1

07-16-2019 Transfer of claim to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. 5

09-25-2019 Admission to A.A.A. 14

03-10-2019 Request. information to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. 17

11-19-2019 VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. twenty

04-12-2019 A. Opening of VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. 35

12-23-2019 VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. 48

01-10-2020 Notice p. tests to B.B.B. 54

>>

 : On February 21, 2020, VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. he has
SECOND
 
proceeded to pay the penalty in the amount of 40,000 euros using the
reduction provided for in the motion for a resolution transcribed above.
THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:
FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00421/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.
SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as
prescribed by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, interested parties may
file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

