 
 

 

 

 

Ref. no.: 11.17.001.011.004, 12.10.001.011.006.004.066 

Decision 

Unauthorised processing of customers’ personal data  

On the basis of the above, the Commissioner for Personal Data Protection (the 

 
1. 
A complaint was lodged with the President of Personal Data Protection Office in 
Poland (Poland SA) against Briju 1920 Limited (Company). The Company’s head office 
is located in Cyprus and it operates as a plant in Poland. Consequently, on the 28th of 
December  2022  the  complaint  was  subsequently  transmitted  to  the  Office  of  the 
Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection  (Cyprus  SA),  in  line  with  Article  56  of  the 
General Data Protection Regulation. 
 
2. 
Commissioner) is acting as the lead authority in this matter. 
 
Description of the Case 
 
According to the Complainant (Data Subject), on the 2nd of December 2022 she 
3. 
made  an  online  purchase  from  Briju  1920  Limited  (Company).  On  the  same  day,  she 
received  an  e-mail  from  a  third  party  who  informed  her  about  unauthorized  access  to 
her personal data due to the fact that the Company had never “withdrawn the relevant 
data processing  authorisations”.  In the e-mail  was  mentioned that,  the  e-mail’s  sender 
had access to 7000 customers’ personal data, such as their name, surname, address, 
telephone number, e-mail address and method/form of payment. 
 
On the 5th of December 2022 the Company sent an e-mail with its official position 
4. 
on the above-mentioned incident. In the said e-mail, the Company’s director informed its 
customers  that  all  Company’s  security  systems  have  been  checked  and  appropriate 
technical  and  organizational  protection  measures  have  been  implemented.  The 
Company moreover confirmed that its databases are fully protected and any attempts of 
unauthorised  access  to  data  are  and  will  continue  to  be  effectively  thwarted  and 
provided the contact details of the Company’s Data Protection Officer to the customers. 
 
5. 
Afterwards  the  Data  Subject  called  the  helpline  of  the  Company.  As  she 
mentioned,  it  turned  out  that  she  was  not  the  only  person  to  receive  the  above-
mentioned  e-mail.  Since  the  provided  explanations  didn’t  satisfy  her,  on  the  7th  of 
December 2022, she requested information about the reasons that caused the breach 
and expressed, in written, her fear and stress for a future cyber-attack. Following her e-
mail,  the  Company  assured  her  once  more for  its  databases’  safety,  informed  her  that 

 

1 

 
 

any  unauthorized  access  was  effectively  thwarted  and  that  the  breach  was  already 
notified to the Commissioner’s Office. 
 
6. 
In  the  complaint,  the  Data  Subject  asked  for  an  imposition  of  a  fine  to  the 
Company  and  for  her  personal  data  erasure  from  the  Company’s  database.  The  Data 
Subject attached to her complaint the e-mails dd 2/12/22, 5/12/22, 7/12/22. 
 
Investigation by Cyprus SA 
 
On  the  6th  of  December  2022,  the  Company  submitted  the  relevant  Reporting 
7. 
Form  in  order  to  notify  Cyprus  SA  about  the  above-mentioned  incident  (Data  Breach 
Notification).   
 
8. 
Cyprus  SA  informed  the  Company  for  the  complaint  submission  and  addressed 
questions  to  the  Company  in  order  to further  investigate  the  reported  incident  (e-mails 
dd 16/1/23, 21/4/23, 13/10/23, 19/1/24).  
 
9. 

According to the Company’s submitted Data Breach Notification (dd 6/12/22): 

a)  The  email’s  sender  sent  an  email  to  100  of  the  Company’s  online  customers, 
claiming/informing them that he has unauthorized access to their personal data. 
As  he  claimed,  he  was  working  for  the  Company  but  he  retained  access  to  the 
customers’ data even after his leaving from the Company.  

b)  The Company became aware of the incident on the 2nd of December 2022, when 

one of the data subjects who received the said email messaged the Company. 

c)  As  the  Company  explained,  it  is  collecting  the  customers’  personal  data  for  the 
implementation  of  their  orders.  The  e-mail  addresses  of  the  customers  were 
downloaded from the Company’s online store database. E-mail addresses were 
processed  by  the  Company  on  the  ground  of  Article  6(1)(b)  of  the  General 
Regulation of Personal Data Protection (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR).  

d)  The email’s sender (Ex-employee) was processing the customers’ data on behalf 

of the Company for the period he was working at the Company.  

e)  As the Company clarified, the actual fraud email was sent to 100 customers even 
if  the  Ex-employee  had  claimed  that  he  retained  access  to  7000  customers' 
personal data.  

f)  The Company declared that even if  the Ex-employee did retain some access to 
customers’ information post leaving the Company, as he claimed, he should not 
have disclosed and/or communicated with the data subjects as this breaches any 
confidentiality  clauses  and/or  NDAs  and/or  DPAs  which  formed  part  of  his 
employment  contract  with  the  Company  and  which  remain  in  force  after  an 
employee leaves the Company.  

g)  The Company has introduced additional organisation and technical measures, to 
ensure access is granted and/or retained only to those who explicitly work and/or 
are  involved  with  the  Company  for  the  said  purposes  and  to  avoid  any  such 
future incident from reoccurring in the future. The Company had further ensured 
that any access the Ex-employee had has been reclaimed. 

 

 

2 

 
 

10.  As per the additional information which was provided by the Company (dd 3/2/23, 
6/2/23, 16/5/23 and 1/2/23): 

a)  The Ex-employee was still engaged by the Company on the date of the incident 
under the contract dated 15/11/2022. Therefore, the Ex-employee had authorized 
access to the data of the Company’s customers at the time the incident occurred. 
On the 3rd of December 2022 the Company blocked any access the Ex-employee 
had  at  its  systems  (including  the  Company’s  platform).  His  contract  with  the 
Company was officially terminated on the 9th of December 2022.  

b)  There  was  no  reason  at  the  time  for  the  Company  to  be  suspicious  about  its 

employees’ intentions.  

c)  Upon  becoming  aware  of  this  incident,  the  Company  proceeded  with  the  below 

actions: 

1.   On the 3rd of December 2022 the Company blocked any access  the Ex-
employee  had  at  its  systems  (including  the  Company’s  platform).  Therefore, 
his last logged in to the Company’s system was on the 2nd of December 2023. 
The  Ex-employee’s  access  to  the  Company’s  platform  was  blocked  by 
deleting his account (along with his login credentials).  
2.   The  remaining  employees  with  access  to  the  Company’s  platform  were 
instructed to immediately change their login credentials. 
3.   On  the  9th  of  December  2022,  the  Company  proceeded  with  an  official 
termination of the Ex-employee’s contract. 
4.   The  Company  informed  the  recipients  (customers  affected  by  the 
incident)  about  the  incident  and  requested  them  to  permanently  delete  the 
correspondence that they fraudulently received.  

d)  The DS erasure request was satisfied. It was noted that no personal data is kept 
by  the  Company,  other  than  the  invoices  and  receipts  issued,  based  on  her 
transactions  and/or  purchases.  As  per  applicable  law,  the  Company  cannot 
delete those invoices/receipts. The DS has been informed adequately of this (via 
e-mail  dd  3/2/2023).  According  to  the  additional  information  provided  by  the 
Company on the 1st of February 2024:  

invoices, 

1.  Art. 86(1) of the Tax Ordinance (Act of August 29, 1997, Journal of Laws 
2023.2383) obliges taxpayers to keep tax books and related documents until 
the  limitation  period  for  the  tax  liability  expires,  unless  tax  laws  otherwise 
provide.  These  types  of  documents  include  VAT  registers,  accounting 
evidence  such  as  sales  and  purchase 
internal  documents, 
correction  invoices,  correction  notes,  accounting  notes,  records  of  fixed 
assets, inventory documents (physical inventory), etc. 
Moreover,  Art  70(1)  of  the  Tax  Ordinance  states  that  the  tax  liability  expires 
after  5  years,  counting  from  the  end  of  the  calendar  year  in  which  the  tax 
payment deadline expired. 
2.  Art.  47  section  3c  of  the  Act  on  the  Social  Insurance  System  (Act  of 
October  13,  1998  on  the  Social  Insurance  System,  Journal  of  Laws  No. 
2023.1230)  states  that  copies  of  settlement  declarations  and  personal 
monthly reports as well as documents correcting these documents, has to be 
kept  for  a  period  of  5  years  from  the  date  their  transmission.  This  deadline 
applies to ZUS declarations submitted from January 1, 2012. 

 

3 

 
 

 
As proofs of the above-mentioned, the Company attached to its responses the below: 

 

the Contract dated 15/11/2022 between the Company and the Ex-employee and 
the Statement dated 15/11/2022;  
its Privacy Policy;  

 
  an excel sheet representing the dates of the incidents, 
 

the  e-mail  dd  31/1/23  sent  by  Support  Przelewy24.pl  confirming  that  the  ex-
employee has the status “removed”; 

  a letter from the Director of PayPro S.A (dated 10/05/2023) and a Letter from the 
Company’s Director (dated 16/5/23) confirming the last date of access of the Ex-
employee and the deletion of his account; 
the e-mail dated  5/12/22  which  was  sent  to the  Company’s  customers affected 
by the incident and the email dd 3/2/23 sent to the Complainant. 

 

 
Legal framework 
 
11.  Based on Article 5 of the GDPR, 
“1. Personal data shall be:  
(a) processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject 
(‘lawfulness, fairness and transparency’);  
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in 
a  manner  that  is  incompatible  with  those  purposes;  further  processing  for  archiving 
purposes  in  the  public  interest,  scientific  or  historical  research  purposes  or  statistical 
purposes  shall,  in accordance with Article  89(1),  not  be  considered  to  be  incompatible 
with the initial purposes (‘purpose limitation’);  
(c)  adequate,  relevant  and  limited  to  what  is  necessary  in  relation  to  the  purposes  for 
which they are processed (‘data minimisation’);  
(d)  accurate  and,  where  necessary,  kept  up  to  date;  every  reasonable  step  must  be 
taken  to  ensure  that  personal  data  that  are  inaccurate,  having  regard  to  the  purposes 
for which they are processed, are erased or rectified without delay (‘accuracy’); 
(e)  kept  in  a  form  which  permits  identification  of  data  subjects  for  no  longer  than  is 
necessary  for  the  purposes  for  which  the  personal  data  are  processed;  personal  data 
may be stored for longer periods insofar as the personal data will be processed solely 
for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or 
statistical  purposes  in  accordance  with  Article  89(1)  subject  to  implementation  of  the 
appropriate technical and organisational measures required by this Regulation in order 
to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject (‘storage limitation’);  
(f)  processed  in  a  manner  that  ensures  appropriate  security  of  the  personal  data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental 
loss,  destruction  or  damage,  using  appropriate  technical  or  organisational  measures 
(‘integrity and confidentiality’).  
2. The controller shall be responsible for, and be able to demonstrate compliance with, 
paragraph 1 (‘accountability’).” 
 
 
 

 

4 

 
 

12.  According to Article 17 of the GDPR,  
“1.  The  data  subject  shall  have  the  right  to  obtain  from  the  controller  the  erasure  of 
personal data concerning him or her without undue delay and the controller shall have 
the  obligation  to  erase  personal  data  without  undue  delay  where  one  of  the  following 
grounds applies:  
(a) the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which they 
were collected or otherwise processed;  
(b) the data subject withdraws consent on which the processing is based according to 
point  (a)  of  Article  6(1),  or  point  (a)  of  Article  9(2),  and  where  there  is  no  other  legal 
ground for the processing;  
(c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there are no 
overriding  legitimate  grounds  for  the  processing,  or  the  data  subject  objects  to  the 
processing pursuant to Article 21(2);  
(d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed; (e) the personal data have to be 
erased for compliance with a legal obligation in Union or Member State law to which the 
controller is subject;  
(f)  the  personal  data  have  been  collected  in  relation  to  the  offer  of  information  society 
services referred to in Article 8(1).  
(…) 
3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the extent that processing is necessary:  
(a) for exercising the right of freedom of expression and information;  
(b)  for  compliance  with  a  legal  obligation  which  requires  processing  by  Union  or 
Member  State  law  to  which  the  controller  is  subject  or  for  the  performance  of  a  task 
carried  out  in  the  public  interest  or  in  the  exercise  of  official  authority  vested  in  the 
controller;  
(c)  for  reasons  of  public  interest  in  the area of  public  health  in accordance with points 
(h) and (i) of Article 9(2) as well as Article 9(3);  
(d) for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes 
or statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1) in so far as the right referred to in 
paragraph  1  is  likely  to  render  impossible  or  seriously  impair  the  achievement  of  the 
objectives of that processing; or  
(e) for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.” 
 
Cyprus SA assessment 
 
13.  According to the provided information and the relevant Contract between the Ex-
employee and the Company, the Ex-employee had legitimate access to the customers’ 
email addresses for the time period he was working for the Company. On the basis of 
the  Contract  between  the  Ex-employee  and  the  Company,  at  the  time  the  incident 
occurred the Ex-employee was still  working for the Company.  It was then very difficult 
for  the  Company  to  take  prior  measures  in  order  to  prevent  the  reported  incident  and 
ensure  appropriate  security  of 
including  protection  against 
unauthorized processing by its employees. 
 
14.  According to the complaint, the Reporting Form and the evidences of the present 
case,  the  Ex-employee  didn’t  use  any  other  personal  data  of  the  customers  besides 

the  personal  data, 

 

5 

 
 

their  e-mail  address;  even  though  he  claimed  that  he  had  access  to  their  name, 
surname,  address,  telephone  number,  e-mail  address  and  method/form  of  payment. 
Therefore,  there  is  no  proof  that  the  Ex-employee  used  in  a  fraud  manner  any  other 
data except the customers’ e-mails. 
 
15.  Concerning  the  Data  Subject’s  erasure  request  no  personal  data  is  kept  by  the 
Company, other than the invoices and receipts issued based on her transactions and/or 
purchases.  As  it  is  explained  above  the  issued  receipts  and  invoices  must  be  kept for 
compliance with a legal obligation of the Company. 
 
Conclusion 

16.  Having regard to all the above information, based on the powers vested in me by 
Articles  58  and  83  of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  and  article  24(b)  of  National  Law 
125(I)/2018 and taking into consideration that: 

a)  no special categories of personal data were affected; 
b)  data subjects were informed about the incident; 
c)  at  the  time  the  incident  occurred  the  Ex-employee  was  still  working  for  the 

Company; 

d)  the Ex-employee’s access was immediately blocked; 
e)  the  contract  signed  by  the  Ex-employee  included  clauses  which  determine  that 
he  was  authorized  to  process  customers’  personal  data  only  to  the  extend  and 
the purpose which was provided by the Company; 

I conclude that no corrective powers shall be implemented to the Company. Taking 
into account the present case’s individual circumstances and features (as mentioned 
above) I consider that the imposition of a fine is not proportionate since no violation 
on behalf of the Company was found. 

 
17. 
implement the below: 

In  order  to  prevent  such  incidents  in  the  future,  I  suggest  to  the  Company  to 

a)  constant control of the actions of employees;  
b)  withdrawing  certain  forms  of  access  from  employees  who  have  signaled  their 
intention  to  quit  or  implementing  access  logs  so  that  unwanted  access  can  be 
logged and flagged. 

 

 

 

Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou   
Commissioner 
For Personal Data Protection 
Cyprus 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12th of April 2024 

6 

