1/18

Procedure No.: PS/00024/2019
938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 12, 2018, Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the
claimant) filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency
against the MILLADOIRO CHILD EDUCATION SCHOOL Educational Center
(AMES), (hereinafter, School Center or EEI), on the occasion of the exhibition of the
definitive list of students admitted for the 2018/2019 academic year, dated May 14
of 2018, on the main and glazed facade of the center, so that it is
accessible from the outside to any passer-by or neighbor. The complainant added that
This list is also published on the web page of the mentioned Center.

The outlined list, of which the claimant has provided a copy, contains
detail of the order number, names, surnames and punctuation of a total of 100
students admitted for said school year in the aforementioned Center, dependent on
the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, UNIVERSITY AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
OF THE JUNTA DE GALICIA, (hereinafter, the Ministry or the claimed party).

The complainant also states that the school delivered to all the
families of the class of her youngest daughter from a list with the identification data of the
students who are members of the group, a copy of which is attached.

SECOND: On October 11, 2018, in accordance with article 9.4 of the
Royal Decree-Law 5/2018, the claim filed by the
claimant to the aforementioned school so that within a month it proceeded to
inform this Agency about the causes that had motivated the exposed facts
in the claim and report the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.

In response to said request for information, dated November 28
of 2018, a written entry from the claimant is registered in this Agency, indicating in what
Regarding the exhibition of the list of admitted the following:

“That the process of admitting students to public schools is a process
of competitive concurrence, in said competitive concurrence procedures
absolute transparency must govern so that the student lysates
admitted are always made public.

It should also be noted that Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations provides in its

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

article 45 to the possibility of substituting the individualized notification for the publication in
certain procedures. Specifically, it includes in said provision the "acts
members of a selective procedure or competitive concurrence of any
Type. In this case, the call for the procedure must indicate the medium where the
successive publications will be made, lacking validity those that are carried out
in different places.”

As it is therefore a competitive bidding procedure, there is a
legal authorization to proceed with the publication of said lists of persons
admitted, legal authorization that has been specified in the Order of March 12,
2013 which develops the procedure for the admission of students in
teaching centers supported with public funds that teach 2nd grade
cycle of early childhood education, primary education, secondary education
Compulsory and high school regulated in Organic Law 2/2006, of May 3, of
education (DOG 03/15/2013), recently modified by the Order of January 25
of 2017 by which the Order of March 12, 2013 is modified (...) (DOG
02/01/2017).

Article 30 of March 12, 2013 (...) establishes the following:
“Article 30. Publication of the provisional list of people admitted and not admitted and
claims

1.

In view of the applications for admission submitted, and once
determined the score resulting from applying the scale criteria, where appropriate, the
The center will publish on its notice board and on its website the nominal list of
all students admitted and not admitted by course, in order of the total score
obtained.”
Likewise, its article 31 establishes that:

"two. The management of public centers and the ownership of private centers
concerted will publish on their notice board and on their website, before the 15th of
May of each year, the final lists of people admitted and not admitted (...)”

Therefore, as a first premise it should be noted that the publication both in
the website of the center as well as on the bulletin board is expressly enabled
by current regulations.

 It should also be taken into account that the third additional provision of said
Order of March 12, 2013, in its wording given by the Order of January 25,
2017, establishes the following:

<< In accordance with Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
protection of personal data, the personal data collected in the
processing of this procedure whose treatment and publication authorize the
Interested persons by submitting applications will be included in
a file called <<“Administrative relations with citizens and entities>>
in order to manage this procedure, as well as to inform the
interested persons about its processing. The body responsible for this file is
the Ministry of Culture, Education and University Planning of the Xunta de
Galicia. (…)>>

It is especially relevant that the regulatory order of the
procedure states that the treatment and publication of personal data are

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

authorized by the interested persons themselves through the presentation of the
request.

We are therefore faced with an assumption of consent of those affected
for the treatment and publication of said personal data, which is manifested with the
presentation of the application, so the claimant, when signing and presenting her application,
consented to such publication.

The complainant also expresses her disagreement with the fact that the
publication on the board is made in the window of the educational center, at this
In this regard, it should be noted that after consulting the situation, the center does not have a
bulletin board as such, but the windows of the school are used to
transmit information to the families in which the information of the center, of the
ANPA (extracurricular activities, etc.) and educational and pedagogical activities
of Ames City Council.

During the admission period, and since a lot of
documentation (instructions from the department, center data, provisional lists,
definitive lists, etc.) the window in front of the school is used, since
it is broader and allows a correct viewing of all the documentation.

It should be noted that, as already indicated, the order that regulates the
admission procedure provides for the publication not only on the bulletin board of the
center, but also on its website, thus including a means of
alternative publication that involves much more publicity than the bulletin board
center ads.

Therefore, it cannot be argued by the claimant that she was unaware that the
information that would be published would be accessible to people outside the school,
since the call itself indicated that the lists would be published on the board of
ads and on the website, a forecast that makes irrelevant the fact that the board
of announcements is accessible from the street, since the website of the center is accessible
by anyone from any computer in the world.

Thirdly, the claimant alleges that the center delivers a list with
the members of the school group that corresponds to the minor to all the families of
class.

With regard to this point, it should be noted that the delivery of said list
responds as indicated by the educational center itself that during the period of
adaptation (with a duration of 10 days) flexible groupings are made in such a way
so that the students are combined in each session and the time of attendance.

(…)
Therefore, it wants to explain that the preparation of said lists and
its delivery does not respond to an arbitrariness of the center, but to the will to provide a
better service that facilitates the adaptation period for families. However, face
to future beginnings of school years, from the Technical General Secretariat it has been
communicated to the center that to continue using this system they must collect
authorization of the legal representatives of the students for the distribution of the list
to the other families in the classroom. If you do not have the appropriate authorization
A different system should be implemented that does not entail such delivery.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

THIRD: On December 2, 2018, the claimant submits an extension of
the claim attaching the following documentation:

-

Printing of a document, dated November 30, 2018, to the
attention of the Technical Secretary General of the Ministry, in one of whose sections
It is indicated that "Before the election of the members of the School Council, In the center
school publish on the window and outside the list of parents who
make up the educational community associating each name and surname with their ID
whole without pixelating part of it.” The claimant does not prove the origin, authorship or
nature of said document.

-

Partial capture of a sheet of the list "Census of Persons Responsible" of the
EEI do Milladoiro, Academic Year 2018/2019, which contains the names, surnames and
DNIs of those responsible detailed in numbers 288 to 311 of the Census. East
document does not prove, by itself, the exact place of placement of said list.

-

Two photographs showing a window with documentation
exposed, but that do not allow knowing the content or nature of the documents
exposed in said window.

Regarding the lack of pixelation of the DNI contained in the "Census of
Responsible" allegedly spread in the aforementioned window, pointing out that in
the date of presentation of the extension of the claim, later necessarily
At the date of issuance of the aforementioned census, the Organic Law was not in force
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights, and, therefore, the Additional Provision was not applicable
seventh contained in said norm, relative to the "Identification of the interested parties in
notifications through announcements and publications of administrative acts”,
whose section 1 provides:

"1. When it is necessary to publish an administrative act that
contains personal data of the affected party, it will be identified by its
name and surnames, adding four random numerical figures of the document
national identity, foreigner identity number, passport or document
equivalent. When the publication refers to a plurality of affected parties, these
Random figures should alternate.

When it comes to notification through advertisements, particularly in
the assumptions referred to in article 44 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, will be identified
to the affected party exclusively by means of the complete number of his national document
identity card, foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document.
When the affected party lacks any of the aforementioned documents
in the two previous paragraphs, the affected party will be identified only by his
Name and surname. In no case should the name and surnames be published in a
together with the complete number of the national identity document, number of
foreign identity, passport or equivalent document.

FOURTH: On May 10, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant,
in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, for the alleged infringement of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

Said agreement stated "That, if the existence of the
described infractions, for the purposes provided in article 58.2 of the RGPD the
corrective measures that could be imposed on the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,
UNIVERSITY AND PROFESSIONAL TRAINING OF THE JUNTA DE GALICIA, in the
resolution, would consist, in view of the elements of judgment available in this
time, to ORDER the adoption of technical and organizational measures
adequate to guarantee the principle of confidentiality in order to prevent
Non-interested third parties access the personal information contained in
referred administrative acts, both to those who participate in procedures
selective or competitive competition that must be notified
by posting on bulletin boards or web pages, such as data
of a personal nature concerning the interested parties whose identification must appear
in administrative acts to be published in the manner indicated, avoiding, in any
case, that these data are accessible indiscriminately from public roads
or openly from the websites, in addition to the fact that the published data responds to the
principle of minimization of data regarding the purposes for which they are processed.
Said measures would have to be adopted, where appropriate, within the period indicated.
computed from the date on which the sanctioning resolution is notified,
The means of proof accrediting its compliance must be provided.”

FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it was ratified in the demonstrations made in
the written response to the request for information made together with the
claim transfer.

-Regarding the publication of the lists of admitted students on the page
website of the School Center and on its glass facade, visible from the
abroad, it is reiterated that the process of admission of students in public centers
constitutes a competitive bidding procedure, governed by the principle of
transparency, publishing said lists under the provisions of article 45 of
the LPACAP and in accordance with the provisions of the Order of March 12, 2013.

He argues that said publication is based on two legitimating bases

contemplated in the RGPD and the LOPDGDD.

The first legal basis responds to the provisions of article 6.1.e) of the
RGPD, as there is a rule that expressly enables the administration to carry out
said publication. In this regard, it is pointed out that the schooling process
responds to the fulfillment of a mission of public interest attributed to the
educational administration by Organic Law 2/2006, of May 3, on education.

With regard to the specific method of notification of the resolution of said
process, article 45.1.b) of the LPACAP establishes the legal obligation for the
administration responsible for the treatment to replace the individualized notification
of the resolution for the publication in the selective or concurrence procedures
competitive. In addition, articles 30 and 31 of the Order of March 12, 2013, whose
transcript appears in the preceding second antecedent, expressly enable the
publication of the lists of people admitted and not admitted on the website of the
center and on the bulletin board.

The second legitimizing basis responds to the provisions of article 6.1.a) of the
RGPD, while in accordance with the provisions of the third additional provision of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

The aforementioned Order of March 12 would mediate the consent of the affected party for the
treatment and publication of the personal data collected in the processing of this
procedure having been authorized by “the interested persons through the
submission of applications”. Therefore, when signing and submitting the applications for
admission corresponding to her daughters, a copy of which is provided by the respondent, the claimant
consented to such publication.

-Regarding the complainant's disagreement with the fact that the
publication on the board is made in the window of the educational center, the Ministry
reiterates what was expressed in relation to the fact that "the center does not have a bulletin board
announcements as such, using the windows that are in front of the school to
transmit diverse information to families” and publish the documentation referring to the
admission period, given that due to its size it allows a correct viewing of all
the documentation.

- The publication of the census lists is necessary for the
procedure for holding elections to the School Council, establishing
in article 44 of Decree 92/1988, which regulates the governing bodies
of public educational centers, that "The electoral census must be exposed in the
notice board of the center at least ten days before the date set
for the electoral act, for verification and possible claim by the
parents and legal guardians of the students.

It is pointed out that the objective of publishing the listings on the window in such a way that
are accessible from the outside responds to an attempt to facilitate the consultation of the
census to the parents, since in this way they can consult it even in
times when the school is closed.

- They communicate the adoption of measures aimed at complying with what
provided for in the seventh additional provision of the LOPDGDD and to publish the lists
of the electoral in the internal board of the School Center.
SIXTH: On November 15, 2019, a resolution proposal was formulated, in
the sense that by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
imposed on the defendant, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the
RGPD, a sanction of a warning for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

Likewise, it was proposed that, if the correction of the
irregular situation described prior to the issuance of the resolution that
agreed, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
ordered the claimed party, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the
GDPR, “the adoption of appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee
the principle of confidentiality, that in what refers to the School Center studied
will tend to prevent the publication of administrative acts that contain data
personal in the glazed facade, and towards the outside, of the School Center that we
occupies. In general, said measures will be extended to prevent the information of
personal character contained in this type of administrative acts object of
publication in the media established for such purposes are not visible and/or
accessible from outside the schools, and must also
implement mechanisms that guarantee that access to the content of these
administrative acts published on the website of the School Centers are
restrict the persons interested in the proceedings (participants).” .
Likewise, it was indicated that such corrective measures would have to be adopted, in their
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

case, within a period of one month computed from the day following the date on which the
the sanctioning resolution is notified, and the means of proof must be provided
proof of compliance within the same period.
SEVENTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned resolution proposal, the respondent submitted a written
of allegations expressing their disagreement with the violation that was
charged, based on the following arguments:

- In accordance with what is maintained in the proposed resolution, any publication
carried out by a public administration under the LPACAP or in accordance with
provided for in article 20 of Law 38/2003, of November 17, General of
Subsidies, "would be contrary to the principle of confidentiality, since it is being
categorizing as "indiscriminate" exposure a publication that not only
has a non-controversial legitimizing base, but also in its
formal elements is in accordance with the provisions of the LOPDGDD.” . It reiterates that the
admission of students in public centers is a concurrence procedure
competition in which it is obligatory to replace the individualized notification with the
publication in application of a regulation with the force of law (article 45 of the LPACAP).

-Based on the fact that the seventh additional provision of the LOPDGDD includes the
specific precautions that are applicable in the publications of the
administrations, it is stated that “a sensu contrario” it can be understood that “in the other
aspects related to the publication, no other type of caution is established
legally necessary, such as avoiding open publication through access with
key and password suggested by the AEPD, but, as has been indicated, the
correct way to materialize the mandatory publication of the administrative act, which is
respectful, at the same time, with the normative limits referred to the protection of
personal information.".

It adds that these precautions are conceived, among others, for cases in which
that the publication must have notification effects, mainly through
official bulletins that at the date of entry into force of the LOPDGDD had, in their
majority, electronic character, thus enabling the maximum dissemination or
Publicity among the citizens of the acts published through free access in
Internet. In line with which, the respondent argues that "nothing prevents the conformity
to law and the legal validity of the administrative acts that follow the guidelines
defined in the seventh additional provision of the LOPDGDD and are published in
electronic official bulletins are extended those whose publicity is carried out through
of other electronic sites or websites that are enabled for this purpose through the
respective calls. And if the publication in those terms is adjusted to
right when it is done through electronic means of free access, with the same
reason it will be when it is done in paper format.”

-

Accessibility of information by an indeterminate number of people
physical is consubstantial to the publication of administrative acts required by the
Article 45 of the LPACAP.

- In the case analyzed, it is considered that the technical and organizational measures
adopted have been adequate, while the publication has affected the
minimum, essential and adequate identification data to achieve, through the
administrative procedure promoted, the purpose provided for in the regulations
educational. It indicates that there is no legal obligation to adopt measures
so that the provisional and definitive lists of students admitted and not
admitted are published only on the school's internal bulletin board.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

The Ministry considers that the public interest prevails in the effectiveness of the
notification through publication and in the guarantee of the exercise of the right of
defense of legitimate interests, directly or through protective associations
of collective interests that can appear a posteriori, against the rights of
the people involved, whose privacy is affected at minimum range levels.

-

Non-existence of infraction on the part of the Ministry when the
publication in the legally established manner. He maintains that taking into account the
indications contained in the LOPDGDD regarding the way to publish acts
administrative, the indicated possibility of accessing with key and password constitutes
a mere suggestion of the AEPD, so its non-observance would not constitute a
breach of any legal obligation applicable to the case analyzed.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts,

FACTS

First: On September 12, 2018, the claimant filed a claim
before the Spanish Data Protection Agency against the Educational Center
MILLADOIRO INFANT EDUCATION SCHOOL (hereinafter, School Center
or EEIM), on the occasion of the publication of the final lists of admitted students,
for the 2018/2019 academic year, on the main and glazed facade of the School Center, in
so that they were visible from outside the Center to anyone
to pass through that place. The complainant added that the aforementioned lists were also
published through the website of the School Center.
Second: It is stated that the definitive list of admitted students of the 4th year of Education
children (continuous day), EEIM academic year 2018/2019, lists, in order of
punctuation, the names and surnames of the 100 students admitted for that course in
that School Center, dependent on the Ministry of Education, University and
Professional Training of the Junta de Galicia, (hereinafter, the Ministry or the
reclaimed).
Third: On September 12, 2018, the claimant extended her claim
extending it to the publication on the main and glazed facade of the School Center,
also outwards, from the census list necessary for the procedure of
elections to the School Council.
Fourth: The "Census of Persons in Charge" of the "Academic Year: 2018/2019" published in the
window of the façade of the EEIM contains the name, surnames and complete DNI of
the parents and guardians of the students.
Fifth: The Ministry has recognized in the writings presented in this Agency the
use of said windows to publish the provisional lists and definitive lists
of admitted students in the following terms: “During the admission period, and
since it must publish a lot of documentation (instruction of the Ministry, data
of the center, provisional lists, definitive lists, etc.) the window is used that
is in front of the school, because it is broader and allows a correct viewing of
all the documentation".
Sixth: The Ministry has stated that the objective of publishing the census lists
electoral “in the window so that they are accessible from the outside responds to a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

attempt to make it easier for parents to consult the census, since in this way
they can consult it even at times when the school is closed.”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that articles 55.1 and 2, 57.1 and 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27,
2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the treatment
of personal data and the free circulation of these data, (hereinafter RGPD),
recognize each control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1,
77.1.c) and 2 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

Articles 1 and 2.1 of the RGPD provide the following:
“Article 1. Object
1. This Regulation establishes the rules relating to the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and
rules relating to the free movement of such data.

2. This Regulation protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of
natural persons and, in particular, their right to data protection
personal.

3. The free movement of personal data in the Union may not be
restricted or prohibited for reasons related to the protection of persons
regarding the processing of personal data.

Article 2. Material scope of application
1. This Regulation applies to the treatment in whole or in part
automated processing of personal data, as well as the non-automated processing of data
personal content or intended to be included in a file.”

For these purposes, it is recalled that article 4 of the RGPD, under the rubric

“Definitions”, provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

7) <<responsible for the treatment>>” or <<responsible>>”: the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others,
determine the purposes and means of the treatment; if the law of the Union or of the
Member States determines the purposes and means of processing, the data controller
treatment or the specific criteria for their appointment may be established by the
Law of the Union or of the member states;”

In accordance with the definitions contained in the aforementioned sections 1, 2
and 7) of article 4 of the RGPD, the diffusion in the glazed façade, towards the outside, and
on the website of the EEIM Educational Center of the identification data (name and
surnames) contained in the provisional and final lists of admitted students
and not admitted for the 2018/2019 school year, as well as the exhibition in the
reviewed glass facade of the electoral census (census of responsible) of the year
academic year 2018/2019 with identification data (name, surnames and DNI
complete) of the parents and legal guardians of the students on the occasion of the election of
the members of the School Council of the Center, constitutes data processing
personal by the claimed, in his capacity as responsible for said
treatment.

III

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction to the principle of
confidentiality contained in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, which under the heading "Principles
relating to treatment”, establishes that:
"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
 
“f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational (<<integrity and confidentiality>>)”

For its part, section 2 of the aforementioned article 5 of the RGPD establishes that: “2. The
responsible for the treatment will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of the
section 1 and capable of demonstrating it (<<proactive responsibility>>)”, this precept
which must be related to the provisions of article 32.2 of the same
Regulation, which in terms of "Security of treatment, establishes that: "When
assessing the adequacy of the security level, particular account will be taken of the
risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as a consequence of the
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data,
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to
said data”.

In turn, article 5 of the LOPDGDD, regarding the "Principles of

Data Protection”, establishes:

“Article 5. Duty of confidentiality.
1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all the
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment.”

IV

In the present case, of the set of elements of judgment available in the
procedure, in particular the documentation provided by the claimant and the
statements made by the respondent in the pleadings
submitted during the processing thereof, it is estimated that the exposure in the
window of the exterior facade of the school, instead of on the bulletin board
advertisements inside the school campus, of the identifying data contained not only
in the provisional and final lists of admitted and non-admitted students for the
course 2018/2019 (names and surnames), but also identification data
(names, surnames and complete DNIs) of the parents and legal guardians of the students
included in the electoral census of the academic year 2018/2019, as well as the dissemination in
open, and without restrictions, on the website of the school of the information of
personal nature included in the aforementioned provisional and definitive lists,
constitutes a treatment of personal data by the claimed party, in
its condition as responsible for said treatment, which violates the principle of
confidentiality provided for in article 5.1.f) of the aforementioned Regulation.

The respondent has justified his conduct by defending that the publication of the
summarized definitive lists of admitted and non-admitted students find your
legitimacy in compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the person responsible for the
treatment (article 6.1.c RGPD) when dealing with concurrence procedures
competitive, which is specified in the provisions of article 45.1.b) of the LPACAP and the
Articles 30 and 31 of the Order of March 12, 2013, which develops the
procedure for the admission of students in educational centers supported by
public funds that provide teaching in the 2nd cycle of early childhood education,
primary education, compulsory secondary education and high school regulated in
Organic Law 2/2006, of May 3, on education, (hereinafter, Order of May 12)
March 2013), in addition to the consent granted by the interested parties in the
time of submitting applications for admission for treatment and publication
of the personal data collected in the processing of this type of procedure to the
purpose of managing the procedure and informing interested persons about their
processing (article 6.1.a) of the RGPD).

The aforementioned article 45.1. of the LPACAP, under the heading “Publication”, states:
"1. The administrative acts will be subject to publication when so
establish the regulatory norms of each procedure or when they advise it
reasons of public interest appreciated by the competent body.

In any case, the administrative acts will be published, supplying

this the effects of the notification, in the following cases:

a) When the act is addressed to an indeterminate plurality of
people or when the Administration considers that the notification made to a single
interested party is insufficient to guarantee notification to all, being, in the latter
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

case, in addition to the one carried out individually.

b) In the case of acts that are part of a selective procedure or
competitive competition of any kind. In this case, the call for
procedure must indicate the means where the successive
publications, lacking validity those carried out in different places.” (The
underlined is from the AEPD)

Articles 30.1 and 31.2 and 3 of the Order of March 12, 2013 establish what
following: “Article 30. Publication of the provisional list of people admitted and not
admitted and claims.

1. In view of the applications for admission submitted, and once it has been determined
the score resulting from applying the scale criteria, where appropriate, the center
will publish on its bulletin board and on its web page the nominal relationship of all the
students admitted and not admitted by course, in order of the total score obtained.”
The underlining is from the AEPD)

“Article 31. Publication of the definitive list of people admitted and not

admitted:

1.(…)
2. The management of public centers and the ownership of private centers
concerted will publish on their notice board and on their website, before the 15th of
May of each year, the definitive lists of people admitted and not admitted,
ordered according to the total score, expressly indicating the specific form for
its challenge, competent body and term, in accordance with the following article.

3.These definitive lists will remain exposed on the bulletin board and
on the school's website until the start of the new school year." (…)"The
underlined is from the AEPD)

However, at no time during the processing of the procedure
The conduct that is the object of the infringement has been associated with the violation of the principle of legality
of the treatment of the personal data used in the publication of the lists of
students or the electoral census, but since its inception it has been founded on the
violation of the principle of confidentiality of the treatment contained in the article
5.1.f) of the aforementioned RGPD, materialized in an indiscriminate exposure of the
published personal information (identifying data) to third parties not
interested.

It is not questioned that the lists of students studied should be subject to
publication in accordance with the provisions of article 45.1.b) of the LPACAP. What I know
imputed is that the respondent has published the personal information
contained in the lists studied and has exposed the identifying data contained
in the electoral census outlined without respecting the principle of confidentiality that results
applicable to the processing of that personal information.

Thus, it is proven in the procedure that the defendant has failed to comply with the
duty of confidentiality that is required by not having taken technical measures
or previous organizational tending to guarantee an adequate level of security that
prevent communication and/or indiscriminate access to such information of a
staff by third parties not interested in the competition procedure
competitive admission of students or in the process of electing representatives
of parents on the School Council.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

In this way, the exposure of the aforementioned documents to
through the windows of the facade of the school placed so that the
personal data contained therein could be viewed from abroad,
contravenes the means of publication determined by article 31.2 and 3 of the
Order of March 12, 2013 for the provisional and final lists of students
admitted and not admitted, where the bulletin board of the center is posted as such
school, which is the same medium that appears in article 41 of Decree 92/1988, of
April 28, for the publication of the electoral census list.
  
The publication of said documents with identifying data of the
interested in the windows of the facade of the school instead of in the
bulletin board inside the school compound, where they should have been
exposed in accordance with the provisions of article 45.1.b) of the LPACAP and the
aforementioned precepts of the Order of March 12, 2013 and the Decree
92/1988, has led to the disclosure of this personal information to
third parties unrelated to the processes in question, since it has allowed their visualization and
indiscriminate access by non-interested third parties outside the procedures of
admission of students or holding of elections to the school council. have
Keep in mind that the information of a personal nature collected in said lists
It was accessible without any type of restriction to any person passing through
through the area outside the school, which was overlooked by the glass facade.

For its part, the publication on the website of the school, openly and without
any type of restriction, of the aforementioned provisional and definitive lists of
students has meant indiscriminate access to personal information
contained in those documents, since their access to the documents had not been restricted.
interested parties who requested to participate in the student admission procedures
in question, who are the participants in the concurrence procedures
competitive.

Therefore, the disclosure of personal data to third parties not interested in
reason for the publication and/or dissemination of the content of the documents subject to
study mentioned above indiscriminately, constitutes a
non-compliance with the principle of confidentiality regarding the treatment, having,
therefore, violated article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

The respondent, in his capacity as responsible for said treatment, should
have adopted and implemented, in a proactive manner, the technical and
organizational structures that are appropriate to assess and guarantee a level of
adequate to the probable risks of diverse nature and seriousness
linked to the data processing carried out that could affect, among others, the
principle of confidentiality, establishing for this the security measures that
are necessary to prevent the dissemination of personal data to
third parties not interested in the competitive bidding procedures and
election of members of the School Council within the framework of which the
facts subject to infringement.

For these purposes, it is recalled that article 24.2 of the RGPD, in line with what
also provided in articles 5.2 and 32.2 transcribed in the Legal Basis
above, establishes the following regarding the obligations to be fulfilled by the
responsible for the treatment in relation to the "Data protection from the design and
default":

"two. The data controller will apply the technical and organizational measures
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

14/18

with a view to guaranteeing that, by default, they are only processed
the personal data that is necessary for each of the specific purposes of the
treatment. This obligation will apply to the amount of personal data collected, to
the extension of its treatment, its conservation period and its accessibility. Such
measures shall in particular ensure that, by default, personal data is not
accessible, without the intervention of the person, to an indeterminate number of people
physical.” (The underlining is from the AEPD)

Given the foregoing, the argument that the only caution that
is applicable in relation to the publications carried out by the
public administrations is the one provided for in the seventh additional provision of the
LOPDGDD, since it is limited to determining the way in which it must
occur the “Identification of the interested parties in the notifications through
announcements and publications of administrative acts”, a matter that is not subject to
analysis in this procedure as it has been justified in the Precedent of Fact
Third of this resolution and that, in any case, would not be an obstacle to
analyze the case that concerns us linked to the breach of the principle of
confidentiality contained in article 5.1.f) RGPD and based on the
facts that have been proven.

Regarding the allegation that in weighing the interests
involved, the public interest would prevail in the effectiveness of the notification through the
publication and in the guarantee of the exercise of the right to defend interests
legitimate, directly or through associations that protect collective interests
that they can appear a posteriori, against the rights of the people involved,
whose privacy is affected at minimum range levels, in addition to reiterating the
arguments presented regarding the applicability to the case studied of the duty
of confidentiality, in the case indicated by the respondent, said associations
could exercise the right of access to that information justified their status as
interested.

v

Sections b), d) and i) of article 58.2 of the RGPD, "Powers", provide the

Next:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

For the purposes of determining the sanction that could be associated with the

mentioned infraction, the following precepts must be taken into account:

Article 83 of the RGPD, under the heading “General conditions for the

imposition of administrative fines”, establishes in section 5.a) that:

  "5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned,
according to paragraph 2, with administrative fines of EUR 20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

In turn, article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements

considered very serious”, provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In parallel, article 83.7 of the RGPD establishes that:
Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.

In this sense, sections 1.c), 2, 4 and 5 of article 77 of the LOPDGDD, under
the heading “Regime applicable to certain categories of responsible or
data processors", establish the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the

autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

(…)
2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.”

"4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

16/18

resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions to be
refer to the previous sections

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.”

In accordance with the foregoing, the defendant is responsible for the commission of
an infringement of the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5.a) of the aforementioned legal text and classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription in
article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, and may be sanctioned, in accordance with the
provided in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, with a warning.

In this case, the Ministry communicated in its brief of allegations to the
initial agreement the adoption of the following measures: a) In future elections to the
The School Council will adopt the criterion that the census listings will only be
post on the center's internal bulletin board; b) The implementation of the measures
pertinent so that every time it is necessary to make a publication with
full names and DNI, the computer system itself generates the document
respecting the provisions of the seventh additional provision of the LOPDGDD and,
particularly, the guidelines issued by the AEPD regarding the digits of the DNI
that should be removed from the posts. Later, in the letter of
allegations to the proposed resolution indicated that the publications framed in
the competitive bidding process will be carried out, as a proactive measure, in a
part of the web page of the educational centers that does not allow indexing by
part of automated search engines.

However, in none of the pleadings submitted said
Ministry has made reference to the adoption of measures aimed at preventing the use
of the glass facade of the school to advertise, so that they are
visible from the outside of the center, the aforementioned provisional lists and
definitive numbers of admitted and non-admitted students per course. On the contrary, in the
allegations to the proposed resolution, the respondent affirmed that "he does not identify
legal obligation” so that these lists would have to be published on the internal board
of the center as it is a competitive admission process,
ignoring that the bulletin board in schools is one of the
places established by articles 30.1 and 31.2 and 3 of the Order of March 12, 2013
to publish such listings.

 Nor has it indicated the establishment of security mechanisms aimed at
to avoid indiscriminate access by third parties not interested in the information of
personal nature contained in the provisional and final lists of students
published on the web pages of schools.

For which, the defendant should implement a system that ensures a
access to that personal information published on the web pages limited and exclusive to
people interested in these procedures. As a suggestion, could
enable an access system with key and password that would allow only
the participants interested in the selective or concurrence procedures
competitive access to acts published by this means.

Based on the foregoing, it is considered convenient to apply the provisions of article
58.2.d) of the RGPD, ordering the claimed party to carry out a series of actions
to adapt the operations of the type of treatment studied to the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

provided in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD that has been violated, and must
apply the necessary technical and organizational measures to guarantee the proper
adequacy between the principle of confidentiality in data processing
with the publicity of certain administrative acts that contain
Personal data.

Such measures must be adopted by the claimed party within ONE MONTH,
computed from the day following the notification of this resolution
penalty, and must be accredited by the claimed compliance in the same
deadline by providing documentation or any other means of proof
valid in law that allows verifying its adoption and implementation in a
reliable.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, UNIVERSITY AND
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING, with NIF S1511001H, in accordance with the provisions of
article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, a sanction of WARNING for an infringement of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.
SECOND: ORDER THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, UNIVERSITY AND
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING, with NIF S1511001H, in accordance with the provisions of
article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, the adoption of technical and organizational measures
adequate to guarantee the principle of confidentiality, that in what refers to the
School Center studied will focus on preventing the publication of acts
administrative documents containing personal data on the glass facade, and towards the
outside, of the school that concerns us, using the bulletin board
inside the center. In general, said measures will extend to preventing the
information of a personal nature contained in administrative acts subject to
publication in the media established by the regulations applicable to the assumption
are visible and/or accessible from outside the schools, and must
mechanisms must also be implemented to guarantee that access to the content of
Those administrative acts published on the website of the School Centers are
restrict the people interested in the selection procedures or public
attendance in question.

These measures must be adopted, where appropriate, within a period of one month.
computed from the day following the notification of this resolution,
The means of evidence accrediting its compliance must be provided in the same
term.
THIRD
 
UNIVERSITY AND PROFESSIONAL TRAINING, with NIF S1511001H
FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

