 

 
 

media information
 
Saxon data protection officer
 
 

 

 
Planned Register Modernization Act:
A big step towards becoming a transparent citizen

 

On Friday, March 5, 2021, the Federal Council will vote on the introduction of the
Register Modernization Act. It provides that the tax ID now-
more about a general identification number in public administration
will.
 
The Saxon Data Protection Officer Andreas Schurig explains:
"By creating a uniform and cross-administrative
identification, there is a risk that extensive personality
profiles are created - a big step towards becoming a transparent citizen. In addition
Saxony historical reasons to reject such a personal identifier.
In the GDR at the beginning of the 1970s, a comprehensive personal code was used
introduced, which was used to control the population. Hence
I appeal to the Saxon state government, the draft law in
Federal Council not to agree."
 
The conference of the independent federal data protection supervisory authorities
and the federal states (DSK) had already in their resolutions of 12 September
tember 2019 and from 26 August 2020 significant constitutional
thoughts on the planned register modernization law. In your
press release, DSK explains risks and names the "sector-specific
fischen" personal code a data protection-compliant and practical
nice alternative. This procedure complicates the unilateral state
the same, but also makes it possible to clearly identify a natural person
fake
 
Andreas Schurig: "When it comes to digitization in administration, the
the right to informational self-determination with a view to
keep. Only if citizens can be sure that their
personal data are not misused
the digital administrative processes in the population also for acceptance.”

Page 1 of 1

 
 

 

  

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider

 
extension
Telephone 0351/85471-120
Fax 0351/85471-109
 
saechsdsb@
slt.sachsen.de*
 

File number
(please specify when answering)
J-0122/20/11
 
Dresden,
March 2, 2021

 

Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden
 
www.saechsdsb.de
 
Transport connection:
Accessible by road
train lines 4 and 11
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)
 
*Information about the processing
of your personal data
data and access for
encrypted e-mails can be found below
ter https://www.saechsdsb.de/Da-
data protection declaration.
 

