1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00389/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated August 5, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against COMMUNITY OF OWNERS OF THE BUILDING
STREET ***ADDRESS.1 with CIF ***CIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons in
on which the claim is based are succinctly as follows:

“Without any notice to the residents of the property, unilaterally,
We understand that with the consent of the Community of Owners,
proceeded to the installation of three video-surveillance cameras in the garage of the building”
(folio no. 1).

“This part understands that their rights have been violated in relation to
to personal data, obtaining image recording without having
given any consent (…)”.

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the

manifested in relation to the informative poster.

A copy of the Act (Doc. No. 1) of authorization of the

video surveillance cameras.

SECOND: On 09/07/20, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the party
demanded so that it manifests what it deems appropriate in law.

THIRD: On 10/21/20, a written statement of allegations is received from the respondent,
claiming the following:

“That the cameras are installed by the company PlazaTel Sistema Coruña S.L,
being the owner Community of Owners ***ADDRESS.1, certifying the
installation of the same.

A copy of the contract with the entity responsible for the installation is attached—

Plazatel Sistema Coruña S.L.

Documentary evidence is attached (Photograph) with the poster installed by the entity

Responsible for system installation.

FOURTH: On 02/03/21, an Initiation Agreement is issued against the one claimed by the
alleged infringement of the content of article 13 RGPD, by not disposing as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

appears from the claim "informative poster" approved informing that it is
of a video-monitored area.

FIFTH: On 03/02/21 a written statement is received arguing that
succinctly the following:

“The installation of four recording cameras in the garage of the Building (not
three as stated in writing in agreement) IT IS NOT DONE UNILATERALLY, .
because it is carried out with the authorization and as a result of the mandatory approval in
Extraordinary Meeting that for this purpose was reflected in the sealed Minutes Book of the
04/11/2019 and in which the express consent of more than 3/5 parts of the
total number of owners, as indicated by the LPH.

Prior to installation, the installation company provisionally placed in
the areas that would be affected by the cameras, informative posters with the only
intention to report its presence without being in operation, nor with the capacity
of any recording (...)

"The Community, through a sworn declaration of its President, extends the
documentation to the one already presented where it is declared that today and since its
installation, the installed camera system was NOT activated with the ability to
recording of images and therefore the Community has NOT carried out any treatment
of personal data by this means.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. On 08/05/20, this Agency receives a claim transferring as
main fact is the following:

“Without any notice to the residents of the property, unilaterally,
We understand that with the consent of the Community of Owners,
proceeded to the installation of three video-surveillance cameras in the garage of the building”
(folio no. 1).

“This part understands that their rights have been violated in relation to
to personal data, obtaining image recording without having
given any consent (…)”.

Second. It is accredited as the main responsible Community of Owners
Building C/ ***ADDRESS.1.

Third. Attached on 03/02/21 is a copy of the Book of Minutes where the signature is recorded
of the claimant, approving the installation of a camera system in the
Community of owners in legal form.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

Fourth. It is verified that the installed cameras have not been operative,
proceeding to the adaptation of the system to the regulations in force, as a previous step to
its operability. To date, they are still inactive pending the conclusion of the
present procedure.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 08/05/20 by
means of which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“Without any notice to the residents of the property, unilaterally,
We understand that with the consent of the Community of Owners,
proceeded to the installation of three video-surveillance cameras in the garage of the building”
(folio no. 1).

The recording of the image of a person is a data treatment and therefore, it is
application of the General Data Protection Regulation and also as
expresses this organism “The image of a person to the extent that it identifies or
can identify it constitutes personal data.

Article 22 section 4 LOPDGDD provides:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information. In any case, the data controller must keep
available to those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

This body has ruled on the matter by establishing that "it is not
necessary to be placed under the camera, it will be enough to place the badge
informative in a sufficiently visible place, both in open and closed spaces.
Therefore, it would be advisable that if, in the case of a building subjected to
video surveillance, at the entrance of the same, the information poster will be located“.

The installation of the poster responds to the duty of information imposed by the

Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

The informative poster has been updated on the website of this organization with
reason for the entry into force of GDPR 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council,
of April 27, 2016, differs from the previous one in the sense that the reference disappears
regulations and the description required for it to comply is made more exhaustive.
its purpose of reporting.

Information about the existence of data processing of
video surveillance, is done just as exhaustively as the rest of data processing, since
that this type of treatment also requires adequate information so that the
user can know the destination of the information that is managed.

It will be necessary to indicate in this section all the necessary data so that the
user knows how to proceed to exercise their rights, collected in the RGPD:
access, rectification, cancellation, opposition, portability and limitation of treatment.
It will have to be indicated, in addition to the channel to be used (by ordinary mail, certified, email,
in person, etc), the necessary documentation to carry out this exercise of
right (instance, identification document, etc.).

The art. 13.1 GDPR provides the following:

“When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a)

c)

the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis
legal treatment;

III

In a letter of allegations dated 03/02/21, the President of the Community denies the
imputed facts, arguing that the decision to install the cameras was
legally adopted by the Board of Owners, with the consent
informed of the claimant, providing a copy of the Minutes Book where the signature is recorded
handwriting of it.

For the installation of cameras in common areas, the agreement will be necessary

of the Board of owners that will be reflected in the minutes of said Board.

According to the Horizontal Property Law, it is possible to install or remove
porter services, concierge, surveillance or other common services of interest
general, as long as the necessary quorum is achieved. In this case,
3/5 of the total owners would be necessary, which, in turn, represent 3/5
of participation fees. -art. 17 section 3º LPH--.

The signs are installed by the contracted company without being operational yet
the camera system, as a preliminary step to the pre-installation and adoption of measures
necessary for their subsequent operation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

So, once the consent of the group of
community members, it is the decision of the community to install a camera system
safety reasons of the facilities, counting the same with the posters
notices in a visible area informing that it is a video-monitored area.

The mere presence of the posters (still incomplete) does not prove the "treatment
of data” intended because, as has been initially accredited, the system does not
was operational, so no right of the claimant has been affected
in the matter at hand.

In these cases, it is usual for the Presidency to report through the channel
have established (eg bulletin board, mail, etc.) from the moment in which the
themselves become operational, an issue that did not occur at the time
denounced as they were only pre-installed, without "processing data
any” nor of the claimant, nor of any other neighbor of the property.

It is recalled for informational purposes only that in no case the cameras
may record images of public roads, or adjoining homes (with the exception of the
access to the property and authorized areas), given that it would be the responsibility of the Armed Forces
and State Security Corps.

IV

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the same of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
most favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

v

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that the infringement has not occurred.
described reason why it is appropriate to order the FILE of this procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction in the matter that we
occupies.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
OF THE BUILDING STREET ***ADDRESS.1 and REPORT the result of the
actions to the claimant A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

