DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

TO: Chief Constable West Midlands Police 

OF: PO Box 52, Lloyd House, Colmore Circus Queensway, 
Birmingham, B4 6NQ 

1.1 The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
reprimand to Chief Constable West Midlands Police (WMP) in accordance 
with Schedule 13(2)(c) of the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) in 
respect of certain infringements of the DPA 2018.   

The reprimand 

1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to WMP in 
respect of the following infringements of the DPA 2018: 

• Section 34(3) which states “The controller in relation to personal

data is responsible for, and must be able to demonstrate,
compliance with this Chapter.”

• Section 38(1) which states “The fourth data protection principle is
that - (a)personal data processed for any of the law enforcement
purposes must be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date,
and (b)every reasonable step must be taken to ensure that personal
data that is inaccurate, having regard to the law enforcement
purpose for which it is processed, is erased or rectified without
delay.”

• Section 38(3) which states “In processing personal data for any of

the law enforcement purposes, a clear distinction must, where
relevant and as far as possible, be made between personal data
relating to different categories of data subject, such as - (a)persons
suspected of having committed or being about to commit a criminal
offence; (b)persons convicted of a criminal offence; (c)persons who
are or may be victims of a criminal offence; (d)witnesses or other
persons with information about offences.”

• Section 40 which states “The sixth data protection principle is that
personal data processed for any of the law enforcement purposes
must be so processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security
of the personal data, using appropriate technical or organisational
measures (and, in this principle, “appropriate security” includes
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against

1 

accidental loss, destruction or damage).” 
 

•  Section 57(1) which states “Each controller must implement 
appropriate technical and organisational measures which are 
designed - (a)to implement the data protection principles in an 
effective manner, and (b)to integrate into the processing itself the 
safeguards necessary for that purpose.” 
 

1.3 The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
1.4 This case relates to two individuals with the same name and date of 
birth, whose personal data is processed by WMP, which is a large regional 
police force. Since as early as January 2020, WMP incorrectly linked and 
merged the records of these two individuals with similar personal data on 
multiple occasions. This led to inaccurate personal data being processed 
on WMP’s systems and resulted in a number of incidents, for example: 
where WMP officers attended the wrong individual’s address when 
attempting to locate the other individual for which they had serious 
safeguarding concerns relating to domestic violence; and attending the 
wrong individual’s child’s school when attempting to locate the other 
individual. These incidents included events where personal data was 
either actually or potentially inappropriately disclosed.  
 
Section 34(3)  
 
1.5 WMP failed to demonstrate that they have ensured the accuracy and 
security of personal data relating to the two individuals in this case. WMP 
do not hold adequate records of the incidents relating to the accuracy and 
security of these individuals’ personal data. The Commissioner found that 
this had a negative impact on WMP’s ability to monitor and rectify non-
compliance with the data protection principles.  
 
Section 38(1) 
 
1.6 On numerous occasions throughout 2020, 2021 and 2022, 
information relating to one individual was incorrectly linked to the other 
individual’s record. Due to inadequacies in WMP’s record keeping and 
incident management, the number of times incorrect linking occurred and 
the durations for which such inaccuracies were present on WMP’s systems 
are unknown. The full impact of the processing of inaccurate personal 
data is also not known to WMP. The true number of times officers 
attended the incorrect individual’s address (or child’s school) is unknown, 
although there are at least four dates where there are suggestions this 
may have occurred.  
 
1.7 WMP are unable to demonstrate that inaccurate personal data was 
rectified without delay. Where remedial actions were taken by WMP, such 

 

2 

” system in April 2021, and again 
” system, the records 

as adding a note to the relevant system warning officers of the two 
individuals with similar personal data, such actions failed to prevent the 
inaccurate linking of records recurring.  
 
1.8 Following the launch of the “
in January 2022 following the launch of the “
of the two individuals were incorrectly merged. WMP unmerged the 
records on the 
 system, however are unable to unmerge the 
records on the 
 system, resulting in the ongoing processing of 
inaccurate personal data relating to the two individuals.  
 
Section 38(3) 
 
1.9 In this case, one of the individuals is known to WMP as the victim of a 
crime whereas the other individual has been known to WMP as both a 
suspect and a victim. Due to the incorrect linking and merging of the two 
individuals’ records, WMP have not made a clear distinction, as far as 
possible, between the personal data of victims and suspects of crime, as 
is required.  
 
Section 40 
 
1.10 On 12 July 2022, WMP sent a letter to one individual that was 
intended for the other, disclosing that they had been a victim of an 
assault. At this time, the recipient was aware of the data accuracy issue 
on WMP’s systems and that this letter related to an individual who shares 
their name and date of birth and lives in the local area.  
 
1.11 In addition to the above security incident, WMP have failed to 
demonstrate that they have kept personal data secure in relation to the 
other incidents affecting these two individuals. Due to the lack of 
appropriate records of these incidents, WMP do not know whether 
personal data was disclosed, including information concerning criminal 
offences. WMP have assessed that, on the balance of probabilities, the 
security of information relating to criminal offences was affected by the 
relevant incidents.  
 
Section 57(1) 
 
1.12 The Commissioner found that WMP failed to implement appropriate 
technical and organisational measures to implement the data protection 
principles in an effective manner.  
 
1.13 As outlined above, WMP consider one merging of the individuals’ 
records to have been the result of the implementation of the 
 
system. The testing and risk assessment of the 
out by WMP failed to prevent the inaccurate merging of records of the two 

 system carried 

 

3 

individuals or identify the need for a manual editing tool, enabling such 
records to be separated on the system. Since the need for a manual 
editing tool has been identified, the development of this tool has not 
progressed in a timely manner, meaning WMP have been unable to rectify 
inaccurate personal data without delay.   
 
1.14 WMP have not demonstrated that they provided employees with 
clear policies, procedures and training relating to use of the 
 
system. Regarding mandatory data protection training, the Commissioner 
notes that WMP reported difficulty in providing an accurate figure of the 
number of employees who completed data protection training within the 
last two years, but estimate this is between 30 and 35%. Additionally, 
due to inadequate records of the incidents relevant to this case, WMP are 
unable to identify the employees involved in all but one of the incidents, 
meaning they are unable to direct those employees to complete refresher 
training following their involvement in an incident, as is required by WMP 
policy.   
 
1.15 The Commissioner also found that WMP did not do enough to make 
employees aware of their responsibility to report inaccurate personal data 
identified on WMP’s systems to the Information Management team.  
 
Mitigating factors 
 
1.16 In the course of our investigation we have noted that WMP provided 
one of the affected individuals with compensation and a letter to help 
them address similar data accuracy issues occurring with other 
organisations.   
 
Remedial steps taken by WMP 
 
1.17 The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial 
steps taken by WMP in the light of this incident. In particular, WMP 
produced a new Data Quality Policy and carried out a “Think before you 
link” communications campaign, which reminded employees to ensure 
links between connected individuals are accurate.  
 
1.18 It is noted that WMP repeatedly manually unlinked the records of the 
two individuals and added notes to the relevant systems regarding the 
similar personal data. However, these remedial actions were ineffective in 
preventing future incidents and ensuring compliance with the data 
protection principles. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
1.19 Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 

 

4 

issue a reprimand to WMP in relation to the infringements of sections of 
the DPA 2018 set out above. 
 
1.20 WMP were invited to provide representations, which were submitted 
to the ICO on 16 January 2024 and are summarised below.  
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
1.21 The Commissioner has set out below certain recommendations which 
may assist WMP in rectifying the infringements outlined in this reprimand 
and ensuring WMP’s future compliance with the DPA 2018. Please note 
that these recommendations do not form part of the reprimand and are 
not legally binding directions. As such, any decision by WMP to follow 
these recommendations is voluntary and a commercial decision for WMP. 
For the avoidance of doubt, WMP is of course required to comply with its 
obligations under the law.  
 
1.22 If in the future the ICO has grounds to suspect that WMP is not 
complying with data protection law, any failure by WMP to rectify the 
infringements set out in this reprimand (which could be done by following 
the Commissioner’s recommendations or taking alternative appropriate 
steps) may be taken into account as an aggravating factor in deciding 
whether to take enforcement action - see page 11 of the Regulatory 
Action Policy and section 155(3)(e) DPA 2018. 
 
1.23 The Commissioner recommends that WMP should take certain steps 
to ensure its compliance with the DPA 2018. The following steps are 
recommended: 
 
1. 

In order to ensure compliance with section 34(3) WMP should 
maintain relevant records of its processing activities and take steps 
to improve governance measures, including considering guidance on 
the ICO website: Accountability and governance 
 
In order to ensure compliance with sections 38(1) and 38(3) WMP 
should take appropriate action to distinguish the records of the two 
individuals and prevent further inaccurate linking and merging of 
records containing personal data. This should include completing the 
technical changes needed to unmerge the records on the 
system in a timely manner. 
 
In order to ensure compliance with section 40 WMP should ensure 
learnings from security incidents are shared across the organisation 
and that employees are reminded of relevant security policies.   
 
In order to ensure compliance with section 57(1) WMP should ensure 
employees attend mandatory data protection training in line with 

 

5 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 

WMP policies, including implementing an appropriate action plan to 
improve completion rates of refresher data protection training. WMP 
should also consider implementing clear policies, procedures and 
training that is specific to the use of the 

 system. 

 
1.24 On 16 January 2024, WMP submitted representations to the ICO 
advising the Commissioner of progress that has been made in respect of 
the above recommendations:  
 

•  The Commissioner recognises that WMP have made improvements 

in relation to recommendation 1 and implemented new 
accountability and governance measures.  
 

•  In respect of above recommendations 2 and 3, the Commissioner 

considers that these recommended steps have been completed. 

 

•  In respect of the relevant trainings in place, during representations 

WMP advised that training is provided prior to employees being 
granted access to new systems, including the 
 
systems. The Commissioner also acknowledges that WMP has made 
progress regarding recommendation 4, including reviewing relevant 
trainings and developing an action plan to improve completion rates 
of refresher data protection training. 
 

 and 

1.25 We invite WMP to provide a further progress update on the above 
recommendations in six months of the date of this reprimand. 
 
 

 

6 

