

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the use of cookies Czech Radio (UOOU-01564/20)
Radio broadcasting operator


Based on the control plan for 2020, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the processing of personal data of visitors to websites related to the operation of radio broadcasting and the provision of public services to clients in connection with the use of the cookies platform, with a focus on the legality of this processing, the principles of personal data processing, the provision of information about this processing and security of processed personal data. The inspectors found that the inspected person, as a personal data administrator, processed personal data from the cookie platform in the scope of Internet protocol, IP address, URL address of the referring website from which the file was requested, date and time of access, type browser and operating system, which page was visited, volume of data transferred, access status. The platform uses cookies to keep up with developments in the field of electronic communication in order to comply with Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic communications, Act No. 231/2001 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, Act No. 484 /1991Coll., on Czech Radio, and other generally applicable legal regulations imposed tasks in the area of program dissemination, program viewership, conducting statistical surveys of listenership, website visits, analysis and monitoring of response to literary, musical and other programs and to ensure income from own music and other creations. In this way, it wanted to ensure the quality of the program offer when fulfilling a public service in the field of radio broadcasting, as well as within the framework of protection against possible attacks and criminal activity for possible use by law enforcement authorities. Through a detailed inspection, the Office concluded that the inspected person, within the scope of the inspection, fulfills all obligations imposed on it by the general regulation and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, or has an appointed personal data protection officer. It thus complies with the processing principles, and was also able to prove the legal reason for the processing, the fulfillment of the information obligation and the proper processing of data subjects' requests in connection with the exercise of their rights. It documented the adopted technical and organizational measures for the security of personal data, keeping records of processing activities, and has developed a processing risk analysis methodology, or in its internal regulations, among other things, it has developed general procedures for assessing the impact on personal data protection. In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of generally applicable legal regulations. Beyond the scope of the inspection, the inspected person was only given certain recommendations in relation to the new legislation. The result of this check cannot be used to generalize the use of cookies in all cases and with all administrators or processors of personal data.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > IT technology > Inspection of the use of cookies Czech Radio (UOOU-01564/20 )Show current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



