Agency for the Protection of Personal Data

On June 13, 2025, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is organizing a free workshop on the implementation of the impact assessment on fundamental rights as per Article 27 of the Artificial Intelligence Act.  
ALL PLACES FOR THE WORKSHOP ARE FILLED. ONLY PARTICIPANTS WHO HAVE BEEN NOTIFIED VIA EMAIL THAT THEIR PLACE AT THE WORKSHOP IS SECURED MAY PARTICIPATE. REGISTRATIONS ARE NO LONGER POSSIBLE. For any additional information, please contact: anamarija.mladinic@azop.hr.  
The working languages of the workshop will be Croatian and English, depending on the lecturers and the content of specific parts of the program.  
WORKSHOP PROGRAM: https://azop.hr/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/FRIA_Workshop_Programme_13-6-Zagreb.docx  

According to Article 6, paragraph 2 of the Regulation on Artificial Intelligence, before introducing a high-risk AI system – except for those intended for use in the areas listed in point 2 of Annex III – public authorities and private entities providing public services, as well as entities introducing high-risk AI systems from point 5, subpoints (b) and (c) of Annex III, are required to conduct an impact assessment of the effects that the use of such a system may have on fundamental rights.  
Considering the challenges this obligation presents, particularly for public authorities, we have decided to provide support to entities introducing high-risk artificial intelligence systems and organize a workshop in which we will demonstrate through practical examples how such an assessment might look in practice. More about the methodology for conducting this assessment can be found at: https://azop.hr/metodologija-za-provedbu-procjene-ucinka-na-ljudska-prava-fria/.  
The workshop will be conducted and moderated by Professor Alessandro Mantelero from the Politecnico di Torino, who developed the methodology in collaboration with partners and the Catalan supervisory authority for data protection.  
This workshop is part of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data's long-standing efforts to raise awareness about the protection of personal data and privacy as fundamental rights among all organizations that process personal data.  
We emphasize that every processing activity at all stages of the development and use of artificial intelligence systems must comply with the General Data Protection Regulation. Moreover, compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation is a prerequisite for compliance with the Artificial Intelligence Act.  

Notes:  
*The workshop will be held exclusively in person and there is no option for online participation.  
*The workshop is primarily intended for entities planning to introduce high-risk systems, but also for all organizations developing and using artificial intelligence systems, with a special emphasis on those of medium and high risk. During registration, the mentioned organizations will be given priority, and if there are enough places available, participation will also be allowed for other interested participants.