  Home »Practice» Decisions of the CPDP for 2018 »Decision on appeal with registration № PPN-01-216 / 14.12.2017 Decision on appeal with registration № PPN-01-216 / 14.12.2017 DECISION» PPN-01-216 / 2018 Sofia, 16.10.2018 The Commission for Personal Data Protection (CPDP, the Commission) composed of members: Tsanko Tsolov, Tsvetelin Sofroniev and Maria Mateva at a regular meeting held on 12.09.2018 and objectified in protocol № 35 / 12.09.2018, on the grounds of Art. 10, para. 1, item 7 of the Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA), considered on the merits a complaint reg. № PPN-01-216 / 14.12.2017, filed by V.P. The administrative proceedings are by the order of art. 38 of the LPPD. VP has filed a complaint with the Commission for Personal Data Protection (CPDP, Commission) containing allegations of illegal installation of a video surveillance camera. The complaint alleges that the house manager, Mrs. N.M. has installed a video surveillance camera "in front of its front door", which "covers the floor and the staircase of passers-by to the upper floors". The applicant alleged that no general meeting had been convened to decide on the installation of a video surveillance camera. He believes that this is how people who pass by are identified. Asks for the Commission 's assistance. In the conditions of the official principle laid down in the administrative process and the obligation of the administrative body for official collection of evidence and clarification of the actual facts relevant to the case with a letter ex. № PPN-01-216 / 2017 # 1 / 11.01.2018, to Ms. N.M. a deadline was given for expressing a written opinion and presenting relevant evidence. In response, Ms. N.M. she submitted a statement stating that she had personal problems with the applicant. Informs that he is not a house manager, as claimed by Ms. VP, but is "chairman of the owners' association" and her activities are related "only to the rehabilitation of the block" and "has nothing to do with the work of the house manager ”. He claims that the camera was installed in order to protect the property, and its range is in front of the door, it does not cover the floor and the staircase. With a letter ex. № PPN-01-216 / 2017 # 4 / 23.02.2018 the Mayor of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality requested information regarding the kept register of buildings in condominium regime for the manager, respectively the Chairman of the Management Board of a building in condominium regime located in Veliko Tarnovo, *****. In response, a letter was received in which the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo informed that in the register under the condominium management law for chairman of the board of the owners' association named "gr. Veliko Tarnovo, ***** “in a building in condominium regime with administrative address **** is registered N.M. With a letter ex. № PPN-01-216 / 2017 # 13 of 08.06.2018, an opinion was requested from ET "BH" whether it carries out private security activities and whether it is registered under the law on private security activities. In response, an opinion was submitted by the manager of ET "BH", informing that they are not registered under the law on private security activities, as they do not perform such, do not maintain a system and do not have a DVR device. In order to exercise its powers, the Commission must be properly seised. Complaint Reg. № PPN-01-216 / 14.12.2017 contains the obligatory requisites, specified in the provision of Art. 30, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission for Personal Data Protection and its administration (PDKZLDNA), namely: there are data about the complainant, the nature of the request, date and signature, in view of which it is regular. In view of the obligation of the administrative body to establish the preconditions for admissibility of the request, regulated in the provision of art. 27, para. 2 of the Code of Administrative Procedure (APC), on 02.05.2018 the Commission has ruled on the admissibility of the complaint № PPN-01-216 / 14.12.2017, given the considerations of jurisdiction of the parties, competence of the CPDP, the presence of legal interest of the applicants, compliance with the provisions of Art. 38, para. 1 of LPPD term. As parties in the administrative proceedings are constituted, the applicant - VP, the respondent - N.M. The parties have been regularly notified of the hearing scheduled for 06.06.2018 for consideration of the complaint on the merits. Pursuant to Art. 36, para. 1 of the APC and a decision of the CPDP, reflected in Minutes № 20 / 02.05.2018, an Order № RD-14-144 / 04.05.2018 was issued to the Chairman of the CPDP to conduct an inspection in connection with clarifying the facts and circumstances on the complaint, objectified in the Statement of Findings № PPN-02-450 / 18.05.2018. As a result of the inspection it was established that at the address indicated in the signal: Veliko Tarnovo, **** there is a six-storey residential building with one entrance. On the second floor is the apartment inhabited by Mrs. N.M. The inspection team found that at the address with a preventive security purpose about 4 months ago from ET "B.H." A video surveillance system is installed, consisting of 1 (one) analog video camera and a TV for reproducing the output image from the camera. The video camera is mounted above the front door of N.M.'s apartment. No recorder connected to the camcorder has been detected to store footage recorded on the camcorder. According to N.M. the output image from the camcorder is monitored in real time only by it. The inspection team found that the area in front of the front door of the apartment falls within the scope of the video camera, and the residents of 8 of the 10 apartments located on the floor pass through the perimeter to access their homes. It has been established that there is no information board warning about the video surveillance. The Commission for Personal Data Protection is an independent state body that protects individuals in the processing of personal data and in accessing such data, as well as control over compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. The complaint is directed against illegal processing of the personal data of the complainant, which is expressed in the illegal installation of a video surveillance camera. According to Art. 57, §. 1, item “e” of Regulation 2016/67, when referring it, the Personal Data Protection Commission considers complaints against acts and actions of personal data controllers, which violate the rights of data subjects. As not every person who processes personal data has the status of "personal data controller" with the provision of Art. 3, para. 1 and para. 2 of the LPPD gives a legal definition of the concept, namely: personal data controller is a natural or legal person, as well as a body of state power or local government, which alone or together with another person determines the purposes and means of personal data processing , as well as when the type, purposes and means of processing are determined by law. Given the entry into force on 25.05.2018 of Regulation 2016/679, it should be noted that according to Art. 288 TFEU “The Regulation is an act of general application. It is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. “According to Art. 15, para. 2 of the Law on Normative Acts (LNA) "if a normative act contradicts a regulation of the European Union, the regulation shall apply". The provision of Art. 4 of LPPD does not contradict Regulation 2016/67, as in Art. 6 of Regulation 2016/679 the hypotheses under which the processing of personal data is admissible are identical to those in Art. 4 of the LPPD. The lack of consent for the installation of video cameras does not lead to the mechanical conclusion that it is illegal, as consent is one of the conditions for admissibility of processing, but in order to accept inadmissibility or illegality, it is necessary to establish the absence of any of the other grounds in Art. 4, para. 1, item 1 - item 7 of LPPD. In the specific case, given the established regime of condominium ownership in the residential building, regulated by the provisions of the Condominium Management Act (ZUES), the legal basis of Art. 4, para. 1, item 1 of the LPPD - the processing is in fulfillment of a normative obligation of the personal data controller. When performing video surveillance inside the residential building, the provisions of Art. 11, para. 1, item 10, letter “a” and Art. 17, para. 3 of ZUES, which regulate the powers of the general meeting as a body of condominium management. According to the provision of art. 9 of ZUES the forms of condominium management are a general meeting and / or an association of owners, and with the provision of art. 10 of ZUES are determined the governing bodies of the general meeting of owners are: general meeting and management board. According to Art. 11, para. 1, item 10, letter “a” of ZUES, the general meeting shall adopt resolutions for the execution of expenses, which are necessary for the maintenance of the common parts, and according to the provision of art. 16, para. 2 “the general meeting shall be chaired by the chairman or another member of the management board or by the manager” Pursuant to Art. 17, para. 3 of the LSMA, the legality of the cited power is guaranteed by providing a majority of more than 50 percent of the presented ideal parts of the common parts of the condominium. There is no evidence from the evidence presented in the file that it is clear that a valid general meeting of the condominium was held, which decided with the necessary majority to install CCTV cameras. In connection with establishing the observance of the specified legal requirement, as one of the grounds for admissibility of the processing of personal data, the conclusion is made for lack of legality of the performed video surveillance. The reasons for the above concern the lack of any evidence to establish that at the time of installation of the video cameras that a general meeting was held in order to adopt a decision by the residents to conduct video surveillance. In this regard, the Commission for the protection of personal data rule with the followingANSWER:
1. Respects as a well-founded complaint with registration № PPN-01-216 / 14.12.2017, filed by V.P. against N.M. - in her capacity as chairman of the board of directors of an association of owners with the name "gr. Veliko Tarnovo, *****, given the violation of Art. 4, para. 1, item 1 of LPPD in connection with Art. 11, para. 1, vol. 10, p. “A” of ZUES, performed in non-compliance with the procedure regulated in ZUES concerning the powers of the general meeting under condominium regime;
2. In connection with item 1 and according to art. 58, para. 2, p. "D" of Regulation 2016/679 orders N.M. to suspend the video recording of common parts of the building, for which to present evidence within 7 days from the entry into force of the decision.
The decision is subject to appeal within 14 days of its service through the Commission for Personal Data Protection before the Administrative Court - Sofia - city.





MEMBERS:





Tsanko Tsolov




Tsvetelin Sofroniev / p /




Maria Mateva / p /



 Downloads
 Decision on the appeal with registration № PPN-01-216 / 14.12.2017

 print
