
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    10/22/2019
                                Teaching of data protection skills in elementary school As part of a webinar, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information presents media-pedagogical materials for teachers©
                            Medientrixx Many primary school children are now also online. They leave traces of data behind when surfing, researching for homework, communicating, playing games and using apps. What is the Internet anyway? How are data traces created and why is it important to be careful when handling personal data? What is better not to reveal online? And what does a smartphone know and do? Teachers can use the materials from the LfDI to pursue these and other questions as part of their lessons with elementary school students. Important rules of conduct are explained and discussed. This includes a secure password, the creation of a netiquette, which regulates the rules of conduct for media use, but also raising awareness of the scope and content of online activities. The transfer of skills for the secure handling of personal data when using digital media is based on the provided materials in an age-appropriate and playful way. For teachers, the use of these methods in the classroom, in addition to fulfilling the required elements of the MedienkomP@ss RLP, offers an insight into the media environment of their students.
“Data protection is a necessary part of modern media competence and the changed use of media shows that this has to be announced in elementary school. We are making a contribution to this with our offer,” says the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann. The materials will be presented to interested teachers as part of a webinar. Participation in the Adobe Connect meeting is free of charge. Interested teachers can easily connect from home.
Further information: Webinar: Data protection - educational materials for primary schools Date: October 24th, 2019 Time: 7:00 p.m. to 7:45 p.m. Target group: primary school teachers Please note the instructions for participation and access to the webinar. workshops on data protection. The webinar is part of the MEDIENTRIXX project.

                                return
                            



