Registration number: NAIH-2426-6 / 2021
Administrator: […]

Object:

decision rejecting the application

DECISION
Before the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
hereinafter referred to as “Applicant 1” and […] (hereinafter referred to as “Applicant 2”)
together with the applicants, represented by their legal representative ([…]), on behalf of […] ([…], hereinafter referred to as
Requested) against the data subject of the data protection authority
the following decision:
1. The Authority shall apply to Applicants 1-2. rejects his application.
2. In view of the fact that the time limit for administration has been exceeded, the Authority
provides that HUF 10,000, ie ten thousand forints, to the Applicant 1-2. - in writing
you pay by bank transfer or postal order.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but from the date of notification
within 30 days of the application to the Metropolitan Court in an administrative lawsuit
can be challenged. The application must be submitted to the Authority electronically, which is the case
forward it to the court together with his documents. Indicate the request for a hearing in the application
must. For those who do not receive a full personal tax exemption, there is an administrative lawsuit fee
HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material taxes. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court, the legal
representation is mandatory.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
I.1. Exchanges of letters prior to the NAIH 's official proceedings
The Applicant informed Applicant 1 and Applicant by e-mail on 7 January 2021
2 that […] magazine will compile a list of the richest Hungarians this year as well,
based on their preliminary estimates, the Applicants are also included. The list is attached to the letter
methodology and description, a table of estimates and the Authority
information prepared in accordance with its guidelines. In the letter, the Applicant called the Applicants
to declare the correctness of the calculations by 14 January 2021.
The Applicant's information includes the following:
-

Personal data concerning the Applicants processed by the Applicant
She

Applicant 1:
•

"Name: […]

•

Age: […]

•

Estimated assets: HUF […]

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………
1055 Budapest
Falk Miksa utca 9-11.

Tel .: +36 1 391-1400
Fax: +36 1 391-1410

ugyfelszolgalat@naih.hu
www.naih.hu

•
She

Source of assets (sectors in which interest + dividend, if recorded):
[…], […] Shares, real estate ”

Applicant 2:
•

"Name: […]

•

Age: […]

•

Estimated assets: HUF […]

•

Source of assets (sectors in which interest + dividend, if recorded):
[…], […] Shares, real estate ”

-

Source of personal data: “The source of the data is publicly available databases of public interest
(e-report, Bisnode Partnercontrol, Imedia), press releases and editorial
announcements, information. "

-

Regarding the purpose of data processing, the Applicant referred on the one hand to the natural
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the
on the free movement of personal data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 (hereinafter
Article 6 (1) (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation)
data processing is lawful if it is related to the performance of a task in the public interest. E
In this respect, the Applicant's position is that personal data processed by the Applicant
related to business journalism, which means exercising a controlling role in the press, which
activity in the public interest.
The Applicant further referred to Article 6 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
according to which the processing is lawful if it is the controller or a third party
necessary to safeguard the legitimate interests of that party.
The Applicant explained that he processes the data of the data subjects for the purpose of
and the press in a democratic society
its activities through data management. The Applicant shall record and
publishes the richest in Hungary based on publicly available databases
individuals and their most valuable family businesses and families. The purpose of this list is to:

-

•

“Its aim is to inform the Hungarian business world about the biggest business players and
their results over the past year.

•

In some cases, it is also intended to set an example and provide inspiration
with perseverance, creativity, diligence and fairness
achieve results in Hungary.

•

It also aims to make Hungarian society aware of the greatest economic
persons with influence, since economic influence alone
it gives a significant public role to some individuals, which is often different
associated with social and political influence. Introducing such a concentration of power
with society and recording the changes that take place in it year after year a
information of general interest. Following the compilation of the lists, they shall be:
It is published in the publications of the company from which its financial income is derived.

•

The purpose of data management is also to provide the readers with information on the use of public funds,
and, in general, the state's support for Hungarian companies
information. "

Balance of interests of the applicant:
•

“Stakeholders have a legitimate interest in the protection of their personal data as well
to handle such data by the Company as and to the extent that
they contributed to this. Data subjects have the right to respect for their privacy
to keep.

•

The Company regularly compiles and publishes the richest Hungarians, respectively
publications containing a list of the most valuable family businesses under the […] brand name
under, as […] does in the international market, in many countries. THE
This activity of the company falls within the scope of freedom of expression
2

belongs to. The Company has a legitimate interest in pursuing this activity
continue to carry out the material and other resources invested in the […] brand so far
make a profit and make a financial profit from the resulting publications.

-

•

Records accessible to anyone and specific public announcements made by companies,
data and information forming part of its accounts
the communication and distribution of such data does not infringe the purposeful data processing
principle. And the public, that is, the reader, has a legitimate interest in
that it applies to the wealthiest people and families in Hungary
public data by collecting public data.

•

Data management by the Company and public disclosures based on them
its content is not in the private or family life of the Data Subject, but in their interest
the activities of the undertaking or the economic activities deriving therefrom
related to the results. It is clear that in this
and the communications of the data subject are not covered by the data subject's family and
it has to do with his private life, but with his achievements in business and business.
Given that the compilations are available to anyone concerned,
public data relating to the public interest in the public interest
beyond the estimated amount of assets or the estimated value of the business
additional personal information, as well as the content of the articles in the company 's accounts and
based on public communications, so that data processing does not go beyond what is necessary and
proportionate, and archiving the lists is compatible with data management
with its original purpose. The Company's data management is necessary and proportionate
restriction of the right to self-determination of information. "

In addition to the above, the Applicant has informed the Applicants of the general data protection
their rights as defined in this Regulation; on the basis of their right to protest
as persons concerned have the right to object on grounds relating to their situation
against the processing of their personal data; in relation to profiling in relation to which
Requested position that because the processing of personal data is not automated
therefore no profiling takes place; and law enforcement of those concerned
opportunities. The Applicant also attached a table containing the calculations,
and a document containing the methodology used in the estimation.

On 13 January 2021, the Applicants, through their legal representative, sent a letter to the
Applicant, in which it was primarily stated that the “[…]”
they do not want to be included in the printed and online versions of the list in any way, they protest
against the processing of their personal data and expressly prohibit the disclosure of their personal data
bringing. Applicants before the detailed presentation of their protest, which is a re-assessment of the interest
it is absolutely necessary to carry out the following questions in order to clarify the facts
asked the Applicant:
"1.1. We invite the Honorable Address to make an accurate statement regarding the sources of personal data that
which data from exactly what database, when it was collected, where it is stored and how.
Please clarify the sources with respect to the »press releases and editorial staff cited
notices, information sent to me «what they mean for my clients.
1.2. Please elaborate on the methodology provided for your client
according to the results of his calculations that came out exactly if and where one
data reflects an incorrect or out-of-date status, so you can live with that part of the data
our right to adjust.
1.3. Please provide an accurate interpretation of the part quoted in point V below:
»Provided, but not allowed, that data processing is automated, it is a consequence that
how many places on the list are concerned '.
The Applicant replied to the Applicants by e-mail on 15 January 2021. In this
primarily explained that following an individual consideration of interests by the editorial board
neither from an earlier resolution of the Authority nor from other legislation in force
neither the regulation of listed issuers nor the professional nature of journalism
it is appropriate to comply with the request.
3

-

According to the Applicant, in its decisions NAIH / […] and NAIH / […]
The public interest in business journalism is the legal basis for data processing
pursuant to Article 6 (1) (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation. THE
CIV of 2010 on freedom of the press and basic rules on media content. Act (a
hereinafter: Smtv.) prescribes the Hungarian task as a task of public interest for the press
information on events of significance to the members of the nation. A 3145/2018.
(V. 7.) According to the AB resolution, the public debate is not only the system of public authorities
it encompasses the whole of its operation, but also embraces the social of business
in the world of corporate responsibility and business
public issues as well.

-

The Applicant stated that in his view Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
Paragraph (e) is in itself a sufficient legal basis for data processing, and the above
misinterpretation of the Authority's decisions referred to in paragraph 1, with freedom of the press
considers it incompatible. However, in his response he noted the general
Article 6 (1) (f) of the Data Protection Regulation as a legal basis.

-

The Applicant explained that the most successful Hungarian entrepreneurs to a significant extent
contribute to the development of the state of the entire Hungarian national economy, and the fact that a
at a given time in a country which are the largest companies, an economy and a society
it reveals a lot about his condition. The peculiarity of the Hungarian economy is that these companies and
their owners regularly receive state mandates, receive state or other
subsidies from public funds. This is the Hungarian entrepreneurial layer as well as the taxpayers
information of major interest to the public, in particular if the
on companies of outstanding importance for the national economy and national security - […] and
[…] - it's about. Accordingly, the public has a legitimate interest in data management
and, more broadly, the exercise of the right to freedom of the press.

-

The list of Employees of the Applicant is compiled solely on the basis of public databases.
These registers (real estate register, company register, public announcements of companies,
stock exchange data, stock exchange rate) and the range of personal data contained therein
it is in the public interest for economic life to operate in a transparent and comprehensible manner.

-

Act V of 2006 on Company Disclosure, Judicial Procedure and Liquidation
Pursuant to Section 10 of the Act (hereinafter: Ctv.), the Act prescribes publicity in the public interest
pursuant to paragraph 2, the company files shall be fully public. Accordingly, the
the balance of interests between the public and the public has been carried out by the legislator and
It has opted for the public in the field of data managed by the applicant.

-

The two main elements of […] Zrt., Which is in the interest of the Applicants, are
The shares of […] and […] Plc.
G7 has published several articles about its owners, from which the Applicant has become aware […]. THE
articles about the trustee and its owners have appeared in the media several times,
in addition, the fact that
the so-called Received significant public funding through the “cultural TAO” system, a fact which a
Applicant also learned from the press. The Applicant, among others, used it in this way
shows the utilization of public funds with the lists it has drawn up.

-

The Applicant also considered it important to note the following:

-

•

"Listed companies, including strategically important companies,
all of its major shareholders have been on the list in previous years - affected
they are being listed for the first time because the editorial staff is now certain
make sure for the first time that, according to the methodology, the stakeholders meet the list
inclusion criteria.

•

[…] Transparently treats the specific indicator that is the estimated value of firms
indicating how the company has managed, inter alia,
with state aid.

•

Stakeholders […] have been, and still are, in the […] international prestige
included in its assets. "

The Applicant then explained its individuality in parallel with its data management practices
balance of interests. The purpose of the Applicant is to give a real picture to domestic businesses
4

present the operation of domestic enterprises in the fullest possible form.
Part of the records, public announcements and reports of companies available to anyone
communication of data and information in different configurations,
its dissemination does not infringe the principle of purposeful data management. And the public is right
interest in Hungary’s most valuable family business,
public data by collecting public data. Journalists of the Requested
its activity adds value to public databases that are laymen
it helps to interpret and summarize what is otherwise publicly available but powerful
amount of information. The most successful family entrepreneurs in Hungary are significant
contribute significantly to the development of the state of the national economy as a whole:
create jobs, contribute to the development of entire regions, influence the
budget tax revenues, etc. The fact that in a country which are just the most successful
companies, a lot about the state of an economy and society. In Hungary, too
in particular, the role of political relations in the rich is topical
divorce. According to the Applicant, the above is the general data protection
also constitute a balance of interests within the meaning of Article 6 (1) (f) of Regulation
-

The Applicant is using the American […] methodology, adapting it to local conditions
publish lists on a regular basis. Based on the methodology, the Applicant creates its own metric, a
an approximate estimate shall be made on the basis of available data with the assistance of experts
goodwill and assets, which is the basis for listing. THE
In the case of listed companies, the valuation is performed by the market, the value of these companies is public, a
The company's capitalization is listed on the stock exchange's website based on the latest exchange rate. The Applicants
Another important question is how they use the public money
affected their financial situation, whether the purpose of using public money was met.

-

The purpose of publishing the list is to give readers an idea of what is the biggest
the most valuable enterprises, what assets they produce and who they are
owners. The preparation of the list is further justified by the fact that, in the experience of the
and due to the peculiarities of the Hungarian economy, these companies and their owners, respectively
receive public orders, receive public or other public funds
subsidies. The Applicant aims to illustrate how these resources work
the extent to which they contribute to the success of the business, and
inform the public that companies are of key importance at the national strategic level
what interests their owners have, whether they enforce it, and if so, what
the extent and purpose of their position.

-

“The purpose of data management is therefore to inform the public and, more broadly, to
exercise of the right to freedom of the press'.

-

Regarding the categories and sources of personal data, the Applicant stated that they were
by default, data can also be found in the company database, such as the names of the owners. THE
statements of operating profit and depreciation, cash and long-term
liabilities and dividends are required to make the estimate. Not listed on a stock exchange
in the case of real estate or financial services companies, of the assets available in them
they are started and then adjusted for the company’s liabilities. The data in all cases
downloaded from e-beszamolo.im.gov.hu or from the BSE website.

-

The recipients of the personal data are journalists […], […] and […], the Applicant's internal staff,
who worked on compiling the list. Data required for estimation to compile the list
they are used, they are deleted after the list has been drawn up.

-

The Applicant then informed the Applicants about their rights.

-

In connection with the Applicants' protest, the Applicant submitted that in connection with the legitimate interest
The arguments put forward are valid in Article 21 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
overriding legal interest, justifying the overriding legal interest. THE
According to the petitioner, “journalists for informing the public
activity is in itself an overriding public interest against which it is not
the protest of the person concerned may be upheld '. In contrast to the Applicants, this is especially true as they are
of paramount importance for the national economy and national security
owners of economic entities ([…], […]) in which the state also owns. The Ctv. the
company disclosure is required in the public interest, pursuant to Section 10 (2) of the company documents
they are fully public. The Smtv. economic activity of general interest within the meaning of
5

the use of such personal data for journalistic purposes is intended
means data management. Economic activity within a range of personal data
publicity is ordered by the legislator, so the legislature already has a balance of interests in this respect
carried out and opted for public access to the data listed. At the legislative level
the controller is not obliged to repeat the balance of interests carried out, as stated
nor to inform the data subject because of the existence and knowledge of the legislation
the fact has already done so. Furthermore, the protest did not prove a violation of privacy, detailed
nor did it provide a justification in this regard.
-

With regard to profiling, the Applicant explained that in his opinion he was concerned
personal data is not processed in an automated way, so it cannot be about profiling
speak. The Applicant 's employees have retrieved one by one from the public databases
data, examined them and systematized them. He further added that “provided, however
not allowing data processing to be automated, so the consequence is that
where the person concerned appears on the list. "

-

The Applicant's reply letter with information on the possibilities of enforcement, as well as
closed with a reference to […] 's privacy statement.

On 20 January 2021, the Applicants, through their legal representative, re-mailed a
They approached the applicant. Referring to the Authority's […] decision, the Applicant's attention was drawn to
that the performance of the “individual balancing test” cannot be avoided by the Applicant. Until then
however, until adequate and complete information has been received from the Applicant,
they are not in a position to explain the exact reason for their protest. In view of this, the Applicant is unique
they cannot begin to weigh up their interests until the reasons for their protest have been set out. THE
Applicants also asked for an explanation of how and how they draw from the business
report category ranked in the list, as well as additional questions were asked by the
To the applicant:
"1.1. Please justify the manner in which the communication appears in the context of the title you wish to indicate,
circumstances and the subject of the opinion.
1.2. Please examine your media type as you consider it appropriate to publish “[…]”
the event giving rise to it and the reactions to it and the
how he evaluates his role in the business.
1.3. In view of the above, please justify why you consider it necessary
and why not choose to rank company groups if you really want business priorities
to keep in mind?
1.4. Please explain why you are bound by the name compared to
that the quality of company data does not mean that they can be used in any way
would be. The use of this data shall take into account the provisions of Article 5 (1) of the GDPR.
(principle of purpose limitation) and the resolution of the Constitutional Court,
according to which: »the curiosity and rumor of the public alone is not a valid question
nature of public interest ". [3215/2020. (VI. 19.) AB]
1.5. Please feel free to send us the excel spreadsheets you sent on 07/01/2020 for the exact source
marked so that we can check the individual data
authenticity of its publicity and compare them with our own database
with our data. The need for this is due to the enforceability of our right of adjustment to the data subject
please. Here we would like to note that the data sources refer to certain assets
with authentic source designations - not taken from other press products (G7)
based on inaccurate, slippery information - please flag.
1.6. Please provide them with their methodological description / calculations - repeatedly and not in detail - by sending detailed item-by-item asset estimates and calculations to my clients.
1.7. If and when they wish to refer to what has been said in their information letters so far
other legal acts, resolutions, on which it also makes an occasion in the balance of interests
please refer to them in full in your next reply.
1.8. Exercising our rights as a data subject, we hereby request the Company to ensure that all data handled by the data controller -
Please send a copy of personal data concerning my customers to me by post.
6

1.9. Please prove what documents and data claim to be my clients
[…].
1.10. Also, please feel free to send official return mail
due to possible subsequent enforcement. THE
for official correspondence, please indicate to whom on behalf of the editor-in-chief
we can address our letters and its documentary proof in the following
send it to us. We hereby request this letter on behalf of the General Staff of the Company
to his acting representative. Hereinafter, a reply letter is only given above
from the Title named after the applicants. "
In a letter dated 25 January 2021 from the Applicant, both electronically and by post
informed the Applicants that in the repeated letter of protest the clarification of such circumstances
to which they have previously given a full answer. It maintains its previous position, it
you do not want to repeat or add to it. In his opinion, the Applicants' 1.1.-1.3. questions
they are not aimed at data protection enforcement, but relate to the editorial principles of […].
-

Applicants 1.5. explained that the valuation of the assets was based on […]
The balance sheet of Zrt
together with its decision on the use and the auditor's report on 31 May 2020
uploaded to https://e-beszamolo.im.gov.hu. Applicant 1 property valuation
The balance sheet of the following companies was also taken into account for the purpose of clarifying: […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft., […]
Zrt., […] Kft. […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Zrt., […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft., [… ] Ltd., […] Ltd.,
[…] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft.
took into account the balance sheet of […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft.
sources, documents were used: Supplementary Annex 201 of […] Zrt .; the
ownership data in the Bisnode Partnercontrol database and the
It was checked using the E-Company Register on the website of the Ministry of Justice; the […]
and the value of the […] shares on the website of the Budapest Stock Exchange; the
on the value of dividends from the 2019 reports.

-

The Applicant shall submit to the Applicants 1.6. In connection with his question, he submitted that Applicant 1 and Applicant
The basis of the valuation of 2 assets was provided by the value of […] Zrt. estimated at asset value:
the balance sheet line of liabilities has been deducted from the balance sheet line of assets. The tools
The balance sheet line was also adjusted by the value of the shares in […] and […], and the balance sheet of […] Kft.
which was owned by Applicant 2. Applicant 1 for property valuation of this
value was not added. The balance sheet line of liabilities is received from the members
adjusted for the value of the loan. For both parties, the other estimate was added
the interests that materially affected the final outcome, and then the estimate was supplemented by […]
and the present value of […] shares and dividends received on the shares.

-

Applicants 1.8. The Applicant provided information regarding the issue of
data shall be processed electronically in the light of the epidemic situation, provided that:
Applicants adhere to the postal route, so the Applicant will ask for this
reimbursement of costs.

-

The Applicant informed the Applicants about it in Section 1.9. As regards the question whether
Comprehensive articles published on the G7 portal led to the fact that the Applicants […]. The G7
After the articles published on the portal, no correction was published for the relevant […]
information, the prospectus of […] Plc. for the first quarter of 2018 […] indicates
the Applicants as well as the editorial staff of several authentic sources, including […]
the Applicants […].

-

Applicants 1.10. In connection with the issue, the Applicant called on the Applicants to
to address their official letters […] to the lead editor.

I.2. The course of the proceedings, the statements made by the Applicants and the Requested Procedure
The Applicants approached the Authority twice. First on January 28, 2021, general
with a request for a resolution.

7

Official proceedings received by the Applicants on 5 February 2021, received on 10 February 2021
submitted a specific request to the Authority to initiate the procedure.
publisher, the Applicant, despite their express protest, included the Applicants in the […] published
Printed and online versions of the “[…]” list. In their application, the Applicants requested the Authority to:
that the factual submissions made in the application and the correspondence provided in accordance with the annexes hereto
if it detects an act on the part of the Applicant infringing the rights of the data subject, the
find an infringement and prosecute the Applicant for it.
-

The Applicants submitted, in their view, the questions raised in their correspondence
the Applicant either refused to reply or did not provide satisfactory answers,
violated their right to have their personal data corrected.

-

Their right to protest has been infringed by the fact that it follows from the foregoing
The data controllers' plea could not therefore be challenged.

-

The Applicant violated this by using clearly unreliable source designations
the principle of transparent data management, as well as the right to privacy, and thus
nor did they have the right to delete their personal data in connection with their personal data
to deliver.

-

By notifying the Applicants of their information and warning, the […] indicated the
“[…]” List, violated the Applicants ’right to protest.

-

Given that the questions asked by the Applicant are not or in an inappropriate manner
responded, the Applicants did not reach a legitimate need for an individual balance of interests
their rights, thus violating their right to protest.

Upon request, Article 57 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation and
Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. Act (a
hereinafter: Infotv.) NAIH-2426-3 / 2021
proceedings have been initiated.
During the examination of the application, the Authority found that the data protection was an official procedure
The application for a hearing was incomplete because the application did not contain the applicants' and
all information necessary to identify their representative; no infringement has been brought
a firm request for redress; and the application was not accompanied by
nor the original document certifying his right to represent him. In view of this, the Authority
Order No. NAIH-2426-2 / 2021 of 10 March 2021 called on the
Applicants.
The Applicants, through their legal representative, dated the deficiencies of the application by dated 19 March 2021, and
informed the Authority of the personal data of Applicant 1, Applicant 2 and their legal representative,
attached the original of the power of attorney and submitted a statement to remedy the breach
their firm request.
-

On the basis of the rectification of the deficiencies, the Applicants complained in their letter of complaint on factual and legal grounds
asked for the fact of an infringement as a result of the Applicant's conduct
as the Applicant refused to retest the interest test
performance.

-

Elimination of illegal retention, ie data published in infringing articles
revocation, as the balancing test has not been performed.

-

In addition to restoring the original condition, the imposition of a data protection fine, if required by a
Authority deems it necessary.

By Order No NAIH-2426-4 / 2021 of 22 April 2021, the Authority notified the Applicant
he called for a statement to initiate the formal proceedings and to clarify the facts
questions on the following issues:
-

“What is the purpose and legal basis for the processing of Applicants’ personal data? The appropriate legal basis
prove its existence with a precise legal reference and, if necessary, a document!

-

What, for Applicants
(as categories)?

relevant

personal

data

are available

the

in the treatment
8

-

What is the source of personal information about Applicants?

-

When and how did you inform Applicants about the processing of their personal data?
Please send the supporting documents to the Authority.

-

Applicants after exercising their right to protest the data processing for what reason
did you not cancel it?

-

Applicants performed after exercising their right to protest
balance of interests? If so, the balance of interests and its outcome
send supporting documents to the Authority. "

The Applicant provided the requested information in its reply to the Authority's letter dated 8 May 2021, received by the Authority on 11 May 2021.
-

The Applicant primarily explained that in relation to all publications of the magazine […], the
Hungarian legislation in force and NAIH / […] and NAIH / […]
Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The legitimate interest under point (f) of paragraph 1 is based on a legal basis for data processing and is therefore lawful.
In accordance with the Authority's guidelines, the listed parties shall be assessed
together with a general interest balance sheet was sent, stating that
if required, they will also be subject to an individual balance of interests.

-

Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation as the legal basis for data processing
(e) and (f) for the purpose of informing the public
matters. The Applicant, in support of this, reiterated to the Applicants on January 2021
Sent his information on the 7th.

-

Personal data concerning the Applicants processed by the Applicant:
•

Names of applicants;

•

Applicants […];

•

data of the companies they own from the business year 2019 (so-called EBITDA,
value of dividends, assets and liabilities);

•

in the case of listed public companies, the quotation rates.

-

The personal data processed for the list is compiled by a public database of […] employees
based, such as the real estate register, on the basis of company court data
company database, companies' own public announcements, data releases of listed companies, stock exchange
exchange rates. For the Applicants, it was created on the basis of court data
the company database and the data available on the website of the Budapest Stock Exchange were used,
whereas the Applicants are involved in a public issue at a significant national level,
interested in strategic companies ([…], […]). In addition, it appeared in the Hungarian press
articles were also used.

-

The Applicant's first contact with the Applicants took place on 7 January 2021, to the letter
attached the methodology and description for editing the list, the estimate in a table, and
information and general interest considerations prepared in accordance with the Authority's guidelines.

-

The Applicant did not terminate the Applicants after expressing their right to protest
data management because after an individual balance of interests by the editorial board
concluded that it was not in force either on the basis of an earlier resolution of the Authority or otherwise
neither the regulation of listed issuers nor the regulation of listed issuers
journalists are not professionally justified in complying with the request.

-

The Applicant carried out an individual balance of interests - on the basis of which he rejected the protest
- sent to the Applicant's legal representative on 15 January 2021. The Applicants 2021.
They again wrote to the Applicant on 27 January 2006, according to the Applicant
requesting the information already sent in their letter of 15 January 2021 - to which
the Applicant replied on 9 February 2021.

-

The Applicant also sent a copy of the letters sent to the Applicants as an attachment.

9

II. Applicable legal provisions
Article VI of the Basic Law Everyone has the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Article
and to learn about and disseminate data of public interest.
Article IX of the Basic Law Under Article 1 (1), everyone has the right to be heard
freedom.
Article IX of the Basic Law Pursuant to Article 2 (2), Hungary recognizes and protects the freedom of the press
and diversity, ensures the free movement necessary for the development of a democratic public
conditions for information.
Article XXIV of the Basic Law Under Article 1 (1), everyone has the right to have his or her affairs handled in accordance with Article
authorities without partiality, in a fair manner and within a reasonable time. The authorities
they are obliged to give reasons for their decisions as defined by law.
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation
shall apply to the processing of personal data in a partially or fully automated manner,
and the non - automated processing of personal data which:
are part of a registration system or are part of a registration system
they want to do.
The Infotv. Section 2 (2)
the general data protection regulation is set out in the provisions set out therein
shall apply mutatis mutandis.
According to Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "personal data" means identified or
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"); identifiable by a
a natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular by an identifier, e.g.
name, number, location data, online identifier or physical, physiological,
one or more factors relating to his genetic, intellectual, economic, cultural or social identity
identifiable by.
According to Article 4 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "data processing" means the processing of personal data
or any operation on automated or non - automated data files, or
a set of operations such as collecting, recording, organizing, segmenting, storing, or transforming
change, query, view, use, transmit, distribute or otherwise
harmonization or interconnection, restriction, deletion,
or destruction.
Under Article 4 (7) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "controller" means the natural or legal person
person, public authority, agency or any other body that provides personal data
determine the purposes and means of its management, alone or in association with others; if the data management
purposes and means are determined by Union or Member State law, the controller or the controller
EU or Member State law may also lay down specific criteria for the designation of
Personal data pursuant to Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
must be handled lawfully and fairly and in a manner that is transparent to the data subject
("Legality, due process and transparency").
Personal data only under Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may be collected for, and not combined with, specific, clear and legitimate purposes
cannot be handled in a compatible way (‘purpose-based’).
Pursuant to Article 5 (1) (c) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data shall be
they must be appropriate and relevant to the purposes of the data processing and necessary
should be limited (‘data saving’).
Personal data pursuant to Article 5 (1) (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation
should be stored in a form that identifies the data subjects only for personal use
10

allows the time necessary to achieve the purposes of data processing; personal information than this
longer storage can only take place if personal data
in accordance with Article 89 (1) for archiving in the public interest, scientific and
will be carried out for historical research or statistical purposes, those covered by this Regulation
appropriate technical and organizational arrangements to protect their rights and freedoms
subject to the implementation of measures ("limited storage").
Pursuant to Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is responsible for
shall be able to demonstrate such compliance
(“Accountability”).
Pursuant to Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data may only be used if and
can be lawfully managed if at least one of the following is met:
(a) the data subject's consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes
treatment;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which one of the parties is a party;
or taking steps at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
necessary to do so;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(d) processing is in the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person
necessary for its protection;
(e) the processing is in the public interest or a public authority vested in the controller
necessary for the performance of the task
(f) processing for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party
necessary, unless those interests take precedence over those interests
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms that protect personal data
especially if the child concerned.
According to recital 47 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the existence of a legitimate interest
In any case, it must be carefully examined, inter alia, whether the
whether you can reasonably expect when and in connection with the collection of personal data
that data processing may take place for that purpose. Interests and fundamental rights of the data subject
may take precedence over the interests of the controller if the personal data are such
conditions under which data subjects do not expect further data processing.
[…] The processing of personal data is absolutely necessary to prevent fraud as well
the legitimate interest of the controller concerned. Personal information for direct business purposes
may also be considered to be based on a legitimate interest.
It relates to measures for the exercise of the data subject's rights
obligations are set out in Article 12 of the General Data Protection Regulation.

data controllers

Pursuant to Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is appropriate
take measures to ensure the processing of personal data by the data subject
all the information referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and Articles 15 to 22. and Article 34
each piece of information in a concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible form, in a clear manner
and provide any information addressed to children, in particular, in plain language
in the case of. The information shall be provided in writing or otherwise, including, where appropriate, by electronic means
must also be provided. Oral information may be provided at the request of the data subject, provided otherwise
the identity of the data subject has been established.
Pursuant to Article 12 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller shall assist the data subject
15-22. exercise of their rights under this Article. In the cases referred to in Article 11 (2), the
data controller concerned 15-22. failure to comply with his request to exercise his rights under Article
unless he proves that the person concerned cannot be identified.
Pursuant to Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is unjustified
without delay, but in any case within one month of receipt of the request
inform the data subject in accordance with Articles 15 to 22. on the action taken in response to a request under Article. Need
In view of the complexity of the application and the number of applications, this time limit shall be extended by two additional periods
may be extended by one month. The extension of the deadline by the data controller shall be the reasons for the delay
11

within one month of receipt of the request. If
the data subject has submitted the application by electronic means, the information shall be provided by electronic means if possible
unless otherwise requested by the data subject.
Pursuant to Article 12 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the controller does not do so
measures at the request of the data subject without delay, but at the latest at the time of the request
within one month of receipt of the measure
and that the person concerned may lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority and may reside
with the right to judicial redress.
Pursuant to Articles 13 and 14 pursuant to Article 12 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation
information and pages 15-22. The information and action provided for in Articles 31 and 34 shall be provided free of charge
to assure. If the data subject's request is clearly unfounded or - particularly repetitive in nature
excessive, the data controller, subject to the provision of the requested information or information or the requested
may charge a reasonable fee for the administrative costs of
or refuse to act on the request. The request is clear
the burden of proving that it is unfounded or excessive is on the controller.
Article 14 of the General Data Protection Regulation states that the controller must, as a minimum
which data processing circumstances and how they should inform data subjects if they are personal
data were not obtained from data subjects.
Under Article 14 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if personal data are not
obtained from the data subject, the controller shall make the following available to the data subject
information:
(a) the identity and contact details of the controller and, if any, of the controller 's representative;
(b) the contact details of the Data Protection Officer, if any;
(c) the purpose of the intended processing of the personal data and the legal basis for the processing;
(d) the categories of personal data concerned;
(e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
(f) where applicable, the fact that the controller is a recipient in a third country or
intends to transfer personal data to an international organization, and
the existence or absence of a Commission decision on compliance, or in Article 46,
the transmission referred to in Article 49 or the second subparagraph of Article 49 (1)
an indication of the appropriate and suitable guarantees and a copy thereof
reference to the means of obtaining them or their availability.
Referred to in paragraph 1 pursuant to Article 14 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
in addition to the information, the controller shall make it available to the data subject
the following information necessary to ensure fair and transparent data management:
(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible, that period
aspects of its definition;
(b) where the processing is based on Article 6 (1) (f), the controller or a third party
the legitimate interests of a party;
(c) the data subject's right to request from the controller the personal data concerning him or her
access to, rectification, erasure or restriction of the processing of data, and
may object to the processing of personal data and to the data portability concerned
the right to
(d) information based on Article 6 (1) (a) or Article 9 (2) (a);
in the case of data processing, the right to withdraw the consent at any time, which
is not affected by data processing carried out on the basis of consent prior to withdrawal
legitimacy;
(e) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(f) the source of the personal data and, where applicable, the fact that the data are publicly available
whether they come from sources; and
(g) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
understandable information on the significance of such data processing and the
the expected consequences for those concerned.
12

Pursuant to Article 14 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller shall
The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be provided as follows:
(a) personal data, taking into account the specific circumstances of the processing of personal data
within a reasonable period of time from the date of acquisition, but not later than one month;
(b) where personal data are used for the purpose of contacting the data subject, at least:
at the first contact with the data subject; obsession
(c) if the data are likely to be communicated to another recipient, the personal data at the latest
at the time of publication.
Pursuant to Article 14 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the controller is personal
intends to carry out further data processing on data other than the purpose for which they were obtained, further data processing
shall inform the data subject of this different purpose and of any of the reasons referred to in paragraph 2
relevant additional information.
Pursuant to Article 14 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation, paragraphs 1 to 4 need not apply
apply if and to the extent that:
(a) the data subject already has the information;
(b) it proves impossible to provide the information in question, or
would require a disproportionate effort, in particular for archiving in the public interest,
for scientific and historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89 (1)
in the case of data processing subject to the conditions and guarantees set out in
where the obligation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is likely
would make it impossible or seriously jeopardize the achievement of the purposes of this processing. Such
In such cases, the controller must take appropriate action - the information
including the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of the data subject
to protect its interests;
(c) the acquisition or disclosure of the data is explicitly required by the Union law applicable to the controller
or the law of a Member State which is appropriate to protect the legitimate interests of the data subject
provides for measures; obsession
(d) professional secrecy of personal data as required by Union or Member State law
obligation, including the obligation of professional secrecy,
it must remain confidential.
Under Article 16 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject has the right to
the data controller shall correct inaccurate personal data concerning him without undue delay.
Taking into account the purpose of the data processing, the data subject has the right to request the incomplete personal data
supplementing the data, inter alia, by means of a supplementary declaration.
Pursuant to Article 17 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
at the request of the controller, delete the personal data concerning him without undue delay,
and the data controller is obliged to make the personal data concerning the data subject unjustified
delete without delay if one of the following reasons exists:
(a) personal data are no longer required for the purpose for which they were collected or
treated differently;
(b) the data subject withdraws the authorization referred to in Article 6 (1) (a) or Article 9 (2)
(a) the consent which is the basis for the processing and the processing
there is no other legal basis;
(c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21 (1) and is not
priority legitimate reason for the processing, or Article 21 (2) is concerned
protests against data processing on the basis of
(d) personal data have been processed unlawfully;
(e) personal data are required by the law of the Union or Member State applicable to the controller
must be deleted in order to fulfill an obligation;
(f) the collection of personal data referred to in Article 8 (1)
in connection with the provision of social services.
Pursuant to Article 17 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the controller is made public
has brought personal data and is required to delete it pursuant to paragraph 1, it is accessible
taking into account technology and the cost of implementation
steps, including technical measures, to provide the data
13

that the data subject has requested them to provide the personal data in question
deleting links or copies of such personal data.
Pursuant to Article 17 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, paragraphs 1 and 2 do not
applicable if data processing is required:
(a) for the purpose of exercising the right to freedom of expression and information;
(b) the Union or Member State rules governing the processing of personal data applicable to the controller
fulfillment of a legal obligation or in the public interest or entrusted to the controller
for the performance of a task performed in the exercise of a public authority;
(c) in accordance with Article 9 (2) (h) and (i) and Article 9 (3)
on grounds of public interest in the field of public health;
(d) for the purposes of archiving in the public interest in accordance with Article 89 (1), scientific and
for historical research or statistical purposes as referred to in paragraph 1
law would be likely to make it impossible or seriously jeopardize that
data management; obsession
e) to file, enforce or defend legal claims.
Pursuant to Article 21 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
at any time on grounds relating to his or her situation, object to the processing of his or her personal data in accordance with Article 6 (1).
based on those provisions, including those provisions
based profiling. In this case, the data controller may not process the personal data
unless the controller demonstrates that the processing is justified by compelling legitimate reasons.
justified by the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject
or to bring, assert or defend legal claims
are related.
Pursuant to Article 21 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the processing of personal data
in the interests of direct acquisition, the person concerned shall have the right to object at any time
against the processing of personal data for that purpose, including profiling, where
it is related to direct business acquisition.
Referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 pursuant to Article 21 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation
at the latest at the time of the first contact with the data subject
and information on this clearly and separately from any other information
to be displayed.
Pursuant to Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, other administrative or
without prejudice to judicial remedies, any person concerned shall have the right to lodge a complaint with a
supervisory authority, in particular where he has his habitual residence, place of employment or presumption
in the Member State of the offense, if the person concerned considers that his or her personal
processing of data in breach of this Regulation.
Pursuant to Article 85 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, Member States shall legislate
reconcile the right to the protection of personal data under this Regulation
the right to freedom of expression and information, including personal data
for the purposes of journalism or scientific, artistic or literary expression.
Pursuant to Article 85 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data are journalistic
scientific, artistic or literary expression
Member States may provide for exceptions or derogations from Annex II. Chapter III (Principles); Chapter I
rights concerned), Annex IV Chapter V (the controller and the processor), Chapter V (the personal data
third countries or international organizations), Chapter
(independent supervisory authorities), Annex VII. Chapter IX (Cooperation and Coherence) and Chapter IX Chapter I
special cases of data processing) if these exceptions or derogations are necessary in order to:
the right to the protection of personal data can be reconciled with the expression of opinion
the right to liberty and security of information.
According to recital 65 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
request the rectification of personal data concerning him and give him the right to “forget
law "if the retention of the data in question infringes this Regulation or Union or Member State law
14

which extends to the controller. The data subject is entitled in particular to be personal
your data will be deleted and no longer processed if personal data is collected or otherwise
in the context of the original purposes of the data processing is no longer necessary or if it is
data subjects have withdrawn their consent to the processing of the data or if their personal data
otherwise does not comply with this Regulation. This right is particularly relevant if
he gave his consent as a child concerned when he was not yet fully aware
with the risks of data processing and subsequently wish to remove the personal data in question,
especially from the internet. The data subject may exercise this right even if he or she is no longer a child.
However, further retention of personal data is considered lawful if a
exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information, a legal right
compliance with an obligation or the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or
due to the exercise of a public authority conferred on a data controller or in the field of public health
for public interest purposes, for archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific and historical research purposes, or
for statistical purposes or for the submission, enforcement or defense of legal claims
required.
According to recital 153 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the law of the Member States
reconcile expression of opinion and orientation - including with journalists,
the rules on freedom of expression in science, art and literature
the right to the protection of personal data under this Regulation. It is appropriate that only the
personal data for the purposes of journalistic, scientific, artistic or literary expression
be exempted or exempted from certain provisions of this Regulation
from the requirements of this Directive if this is necessary for the protection of personal data
reconcile the right to freedom of expression and information with the right to freedom of expression,
provided for in Article 11 of the Charter. This applies in particular to personal audiovisual data
and in news archives and press libraries.
Consequently, Member States shall lay down the rules for the adoption of such measures by means of legislative measures
necessary exceptions and derogations in order to strike a balance between fundamental rights. Member States
exceptions and derogations shall be adopted in accordance with the general principles, the rights of the data subject, the controller and the
processor of personal data to third countries or international organizations
independent supervisory authorities, cooperation and uniformity
application and individual data management situations. If these are the exceptions
differences between Member States, the law of the Member State applicable to the controller should apply
apply. The right to freedom of expression in all democratic societies
In order to take account of the importance of
like journalism, it must be interpreted broadly.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data,
and the right of access to data in the public interest and in the public interest
monitoring and facilitating the enforcement of personal data within the European Union
facilitating the free movement of The Authority's tasks and powers are general data protection
Article 57 (1), Article 58 (1) to (3) and Infotv. Section 38 (2) - (4)
defined in detail.
Infotv. The right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1) and (2)
the Authority shall, at the request of the data subject,
initiate proceedings and may initiate ex officio data protection authority proceedings. The data protection authority procedure
Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation and
It may be submitted in the case specified in Section 22 (b).
Unless otherwise provided in the General Data Protection Regulation, data protection was initiated upon request
for official proceedings under Ákr. shall apply with the exceptions specified in the Information Act.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), it was taken in a data protection official proceeding
In its decision, the Authority With the data management operations specified in Section 2 (2)
in accordance with Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may apply legal consequences. Accordingly, acting within the Authority's power of correction:
(a) alert the controller or processor to the processing of certain draft data
its activities are likely to infringe the provisions of this Regulation;
15

(b) reprimands the controller or the processor if he or she is acting in a data-processing capacity
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation;
(c) instruct the controller or processor to comply with this Regulation
the exercise of his rights under this Regulation;
(d) instruct the controller or processor to carry out its data processing operations
bring this Regulation into line with the provisions of this Regulation
with its provisions;
(e) instruct the controller to inform the data subject of the data protection incident;
(f) temporarily or permanently restrict data processing, including data processing
prohibition;
(g) order personal data in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18 respectively
rectification or erasure of data and restrictions on data processing, as well as Article 17 (2)
order notification to the addressees in accordance with
with whom or with whom the personal data have been communicated;
(h) withdraw the certificate or instruct the certification body in accordance with Articles 42 and 43
revoke a certificate issued in accordance with this Regulation or instruct the certification body to:
do not issue the certificate if the conditions for certification are not or are no longer met;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in this paragraph; and
(j) order the flow of data to a recipient in a third country or to an international organization
suspension.
Infotv. 75 / A. §, the Authority shall comply with Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation
shall exercise its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in particular by:
legislation on the processing of personal data or binding on the European Union
for the first time in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation, in particular
by alerting the controller or processor.
The Ákr. Under Section 17, the authority has the powers and competencies at all stages of the proceedings
ex officio. If you notice any of its deficiencies and it can be established beyond doubt in the case
competent authority shall transfer the case or, failing that, shall reject the application
terminate the procedure.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 3, Clause 6, public data in the public interest does not fall within the definition of data of public interest
any information relating to which the disclosure, disclosure or
making it available in the public interest.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 26 (2), public personal data in the public interest is subject to purpose
may be disseminated in accordance with the principle of data management.
The Ctv. The preamble states that the Ctv. aims to create a modern legal framework for the
In accordance with European Union regulations,
the order of registration and the constitutional rights of entrepreneurs in the economic
to ensure the safety of traffic and the protection of the interests of creditors or other public interests
full disclosure of the data of the public register of companies, directly or electronically.
The Ctv. Pursuant to Section 10 (1), the company register is from the register of companies and in the register of companies
consists of annexes to support the data contained in
submission of the company - in the public interest, and the safety of traffic, as well as the interests of creditors
for the purpose of protection is required by law (hereinafter together: company documents).
The Ctv. According to Section 10 (2), the existing or deleted data of the company register, as well as the company documents -
including company documents submitted electronically or converted into electronic documents,
they are fully public. Tax registration procedure under the Taxation Act
shall also be made fully public after the successful completion of the proceedings submitted but not yet completed
reviewed the application for registration and its annexes with the application for registration (change registration)
the business register must indicate the existence of an ongoing assessment. The legality of supervision
The documents of the proceedings shall be public in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
16

The Ctv. Pursuant to Section 24 (1) (b), (f) and (h), the register of companies is for all companies
contains the name of the company, the subscribed capital, the chief executive officer and the person authorized to represent the company
name, tax identification number, place of residence in case of a natural person, date of birth, mother
birth name,, in the case of a legal person, registered office and company registration number or registration number,
as well as the position of the persons entitled to representation, the date of the establishment of this legal relationship
in the case of temporary representation, also the date of termination of the legal relationship, or if the legal relationship
termination takes place earlier than the date indicated in the register of companies, the termination is effective
and the fact that the company representative is notarized
a copy of the title or a specimen signature countersigned by a lawyer or barrister
cost.
The Ctv. Pursuant to Section 27 (3) (a) and (e), the register of companies is based on Articles 24-26. §
in addition, in the case of a limited liability company
a) the names of the members, in the case of a natural person, their place of residence, date of birth, birth name of their mother,
in the case of a legal person, its registered office and its registration number or registration number, and
if the voting rights of the member have exceeded 50 percent, or the member
has a qualified majority influence, this fact also being
e) in the case of a jointly owned share, the names of the owners, in the case of a natural person
residence, date of birth, birth name of the mother, registered office in the case of a legal person, and
company registration number or registration number.
The Ctv. Pursuant to Section 27 (4) (bc) and (bd), the register of companies is based on Articles 24-26. §
in addition, in the case of a private limited company
(bc) where the shareholder 's voting rights exceed 50 per cent, or
the shareholder has a qualified majority influence, the name of the shareholder,
in the case of a natural person, its registered office and its registration number or registration number,
bd) in the case of a sole proprietorship, the date of birth, place of residence, birth name of the mother,
in the case of a legal person, its registered office, company registration number or registration number.
The Smtv. Pursuant to Section 4 (3), the exercise of freedom of the press may not be exercised
criminal offense or incitement to commit a criminal offense shall not be contrary to public morality,
and must not infringe on the privacy rights of others.
The Smtv. Under Article 10, everyone has the right to be properly informed by the local, az
national and European public affairs, as well as citizens of Hungary and members of the Hungarian nation
events of major importance to him. The task of the media system as a whole is to provide authentic, fast,
accurate information on these matters and events.
The Smtv. According to § 13, linear media services providing information activities
local, national, national and European public interest
On events of significance for the citizens of Hungary and the members of the Hungarian nation,
controversial issues in the information and news programs they publish
to be informed in a balanced way. The detailed rules of this obligation are the law of proportionality and
in accordance with the requirements of ensuring democratic public opinion.
The Smtv. Pursuant to Section 21 (1), the media content provider is within the framework of the legislation
decides independently on the publication of media content and is responsible for the provisions of this Act
for retention.
Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code (hereinafter: the Civil Code) is a public actor
2:44 on the protection of the right to privacy. § (1) - (3), public affairs are free
the protection of the fundamental rights of the public actor
necessary and proportionate, without prejudice to human dignity; however, it is
it must not infringe on your private and family life or your home. The public actor a
communication or conduct outside the scope of free debate in public matters is not in the public domain
shall enjoy the same protection as the It is not a public matter for a private or private operator
family life activity or data.
Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights states that everyone has the right to:
respect for private and family life, home and correspondence. Authority to exercise this right
17

it can only intervene in cases specified by law when it is a democratic one
in the interests of national security, public security or the economic well-being of the country,
prevention of riots or criminal offenses, protection of public health or morals, or
necessary to protect the rights and freedoms of others.
Under Article 10 (1) of the European Convention on Human Rights, everyone has the right to: a
freedom of expression. This right shall include freedom to hold opinions and
it respects the freedom to know and communicate information and ideas across national borders
without the intervention of an official body.
III. Decision of the Authority
The Authority notes that the full name of the Applicants,
surname, […] and quantifiable, objective information on their economic activity
personal data pursuant to Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
collecting, processing, listing and publishing Applicant is the general
According to Article 4 (7) of the Data Protection Regulation, both online and offline are considered to be data controllers
content, publications and personal data published in printed form
data.
The processing of data by the Applicant is governed by Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
falls within the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Authority shall provide all available evidence in the present data protection authority proceedings
and decided, on the basis of information, whether:
-

the right of the Applicants to rectification (Article 16 of the General Data Protection Regulation);

-

the right of applicants to cancel (Article 17 of the General Data Protection Regulation);

-

the right of applicants to protest (Article 21 of the General Data Protection Regulation);

-

the principle of transparent data management (Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation)
point).

III.1. Right to rectification
According to the Applicants, by providing the Applicant with the calculation methodology Applicants are specific
and did not use an authentic source for […]
their right to rectification.
By letter dated 7 January 2021, the Applicant explained in detail the calculations to be
the list used and the methodology used in the estimation (the evaluation and auditing of which is not
falls within the remit of the Authority):
-

The Applicant based its assessment of the companies on the methodology of the US parent fund. Where
it was possible to do so, it calculated on the basis of EBIDTA, taking into account the data of the court of registration.
It was based on an industry multiplier based on international practice, […], New York University
Starting from the list of professors of the company, but in consultation with domestic sales professionals, the
together with regional sister cards, tailoring the multipliers to the region or the Hungarian market.

-

To this value was added the cash stock available to the company,
from which it withdrew the loans. This method can be used for production companies. Financial
for service providers, real estate developers under the guidance of the US parent fund a
all costs were deducted from the accumulated value of the business.

-

A uniform 30 percent discount was deducted from the value of the companies where the Applicant calculated on an EBITDA basis.

-

In addition to the above, the Applicant also provides a table containing the Applicants' estimates
attached to his letter.

In the response letter of the Applicant dated 25 January 2021, the data on which the calculations are based
additional sources:
18

-

The valuation of the assets is based on the balance sheet of […] Zrt. In 2019, which was
the taxpayer’s use decision and the auditor’s report
together uploaded to https://e-beszamolo.im.gov.hu on May 31, 2020.

-

To clarify the valuation of the assets of Applicant 1, the balance sheets of the following companies were taken into account by the
Applicant: […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Zrt., […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Zrt.,
[…] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft.

-

To clarify the valuation of 2 assets of the applicant, the balance sheets of the following companies were taken into account by the
Applicant: […] Kft., […] Kft., […] Kft.

-

The following sources and documents were further clarified in the calculations
for use: Supplementary Annex 201 of […] Zrt .; related to ownership
data from the Bisnode Partnercontrol database as well as the Department of Justice
has been verified using the E-note on its website; […] and […] shares
on the website of the Budapest Stock Exchange; on the value of dividends from the 2019 reports.

-

The value of the assets was based on the value of […] Zrt. estimated at asset value by
Requested: the balance sheet of liabilities has been deducted from the balance sheet line of assets. The
the balance sheet line of the assets was adjusted by the value of the shares of […] and […], and the balance sheet of […] Kft.
which was owned by Applicant 2. The latter value of Applicant 1
was not added to the valuation of the property. Balance sheet line of liabilities from owners
adjusted by the value of the membership loan received. For both parties, the other estimate was added
interests that do not materially affect the outcome and then the estimates
supplemented by the present value of the […] and […] shares and the share price
with dividends.

In the Authority’s view, the Applicants ’[…] application of 25 January 2021
in accordance with Article 14 (2) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation
when he submitted that the articles published on the G7 economic portal had been followed up by the Applicants.
[…]: […] Is also indicated in the prospectus of […] Plc. For the first quarter of 2018; […] Their several sources, among others
[…] also confirmed.
The purpose of the right to rectification is to prevent or remedy the data subject
infringe due to inaccurately processed data. It is not necessary for the data subject to do so
justify the request, but it is up to the data subject to prove to the controller that the
the data processed do not correspond to reality and the new data are accurate. As a general rule, everything
the personal data of the data subject are subject to the right of rectification, regardless
from receiving personal data directly from the data subject or from another data controller or data subject
collected. Accordingly, the exercise of the right to rectification is not conditional on the
the controller must use an “authentic source designation” for the source of the personal data, the data subject
with the knowledge of personal data, the data subject may clarify the data concerning him or her, regardless of whether they are relevant
from the source. In addition, the Applicants failed to clarify during and before the proceedings that
why the resources indicated by the Applicant - on several occasions - are unreliable to them are
for what reason no substantive answer was given and thus on what basis they expected it
correction.
In view of the above, the Authority finds that the Applicant has not infringed
Article 16 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
III.2. Right of cancellation
According to the Applicants, the Applicant did not provide an authentic source designation a
As regards applicants […] (see point III.1), it was an obstacle to the exercise of their right of cancellation,
thus, the Applicant violated their right to be forgotten.
A request for the deletion of personal data shall be made in accordance with Article 12 of the General Data Protection Regulation
may be submitted to the controller in accordance with its general rules. After that, data controller
is responsible for classifying and deciding the request for cancellation in accordance with the legal conditions,
whether to grant the request. The right to be forgotten depends on the decision of the data subject
enforceable right, on the other hand, the obligation of the data controller, if the right
as defined in the General Data Protection Regulation.
19

Article 17 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation exhaustively lists the cases where
the data subject may request that the controller delete the data from his or her file without undue delay
personal information. It is clear from the list that it is also irrelevant in this respect what was personal
source of data, thus the unreliable source designation referred to by the Applicants in their opinion
it is not, in fact, an obstacle to the exercise of the right to be forgotten, a request to that effect
Article 17 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
no breach of Article.
III.3. Right to protest, in particular the principle of individual balance of interests
Pursuant to Article 21 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to his or her own
protest your personal information at any time for reasons related to your situation
based on Article 6 (1) (e) or (f) of this Regulation.
The function of the right to protest is to strike a balance between the interests of the controller and the data subject
create. On one side are the interests of the data subject relating to his own situation, to which he refers
intends to exercise his right to protest, which is due to his personal nature
is not required to make a statement. Contrary to the reasons arising from the situation of the data subject, the data controller is legitimate
interest, of which the General Data Protection Regulation
economic interest based on data management.
As a result of exercising the right to object, the controller is obliged to terminate the
processing, unless it proves that the processing is for compelling legitimate reasons
which take precedence over the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject
against. The data controller has done this on a case-by-case basis, the rights of the data controller and the data subject and
individual merit. To be performed by the data controller
a second, individual consideration of the interest is that the person exercising his right to protest is concerned
explain precisely, in sufficient detail, the reason for objecting to the processing.
The position of the Applicants is set out in Section I.2. to their correspondence with the Applicant as set out in
citing that as the Applicant's questions to the Applicants are not or are unsatisfactory
The Applicants were also unable to carry out the individual balancing exercise
necessary to represent their legitimate interests.
Recital 46 of the General Data Protection Regulation and Article 6 (1)
The preliminary assessment of interests carried out in accordance with point (f) is necessarily of a general nature,
which can take into account the legitimate interests of the data subjects to be identified in advance by the controller. The
The function of Article 21 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation is to
in order to terminate data processing - the data controller shall state the reasons related to their own situation
who, in doing so, is aware of individual aspects which he did not previously know
it may also weigh up the legitimate interests of itself or of a third party
in comparison. If those concerned do not comply with this requirement, the
individualized balancing of interests is not possible for objective reasons.
However, the Authority did not request the Authority to
At his request, he stated that after the Applicants had protested, as part of his rejection
On January 15, 2021, he conducted an individual balance of interests.
In the opinion of the Authority, Annex I.2. between the Applicants and the Applicant
Based on the current correspondence, it can be stated that the Applicants' questions, which are general
access to the information specified in Article 15 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation
the respondent responded on the merits with regard to the processing, purpose and purposes of personal data
provided all information to the Applicants regarding the source of the
Given that the Applicants have received Article 14 of the General Data Protection Regulation from the Applicant
information to be made available to the data subject in accordance with
received in accordance with the Data Protection Regulation and Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The information specified in Article 1 (1) has also been made available to them
they had all the knowledge they needed to explain the underlying reasons.
Consequently, the Applicants' argument that the Applicant is unfounded is incorrect
20

inadequate information prevented them from serving as a basis for their protest
their legitimate interests.
The Applicant could not do so for objective reasons, which can be traced back to the Applicants' negligence
according to the individualized balance of interests, given that the Applicants have its
no reasons were given for their own situation. The Applicant, however
however, based on the information available, he tried to implement the custom
balance of interests, taking into account, however, that the Applicants' failure to act cannot be attributed to the
At the applicant's expense, the Authority did not examine the merits.
In view of the above, no breach of Article 21 of the General Data Protection Regulation can be identified.
III.4. Principle of transparent data management
In their application, the Applicants further requested that the Authority establish the principle of transparency
in view of the fact that in the applicant's reply of 15 January 2021 “clearly
used unreliable source designations ’.
The principle of transparency implements the requirement for the data subject that
that the data subject can trace the fate of his or her personal data
data management. The General Data Protection Regulation is the responsibility of the controller in this respect
requires data controllers to proactively provide adequate information to data subjects
before the start of data processing; and defines the rights of data subjects as
the right to information and access.
According to recital 39 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the principle of transparency
requires that the information to be provided to the data subject is comprehensible and easily accessible
be. The principle applies in particular to the identity of the controller and the purpose of the processing
for information. In accordance with the principle of transparency, the data subject should also be informed through data processing
related risks, rules and guarantees.
However, as defined in the General Data Protection Regulation, the source of the data
authenticity is not required by the principle of transparent data management and is not provided by the Authority
competence to certify credibility and the source of journalistic resources. Applicants also do not
indicated the reasons for the lack of transparency and in several letters from the Applicant
indicated the source of the personal data processed. In view of the above, the general data protection
No infringement of Article 5 (1) (a) of Regulation No 40/94 can be established.
In view of the above, the Authority rejects the Applicants' application.
ARC. Rules of procedure
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) determine the jurisdiction of the country
covers the whole territory.
The Authority will issue this decision in addition to the Applicants to the Applicant as the complained data controller
also sends to.
***
The present decision is based on Ákr. 80-81. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 61 (1). The decision and the order
the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), they become final upon their communication. The Ákr. § 112 and § 114
(1), the decision may be the subject of an administrative appeal.
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3) a)
The General Court has exclusive jurisdiction under subparagraph (aa). A Kp. Section 27 (1)
(b), legal representation shall be required in legal proceedings before the General Court. A Kp. Section 39 (6)
21

the submission of the application for the entry into force of the administrative act
has no suspensive effect.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter referred to as the Customer's legal representative pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b) of the E-Administration Act
obliged to communicate electronically.
The time and place of filing an action against the decision of the Authority shall be determined by the Kp. Section 39 (1)
defined in paragraph Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing can be found in Kp.
It is based on § 77 (1) - (2). The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with the 1990 Fees Act.
year XCIII. Act (hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). The fee is preliminary
from the payment of the Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) exempt the proceedings
initiating party.
In the course of the procedure, the Authority exceeded the Infotv. 60 / A. § (1), one hundred and fifty days
administrative deadline, therefore Ákr. Pursuant to Section 51 b), it pays ten thousand forints to the Applicants -
Applicants must indicate in writing, by bank transfer or post office
voucher.

Budapest, August 2021

Best regards:

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

22

