
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    11/22/2018
                                Cooperation event "180 days GDPR - examples from daily practice" - a complete success! On Tuesday, November 20, 2018 from 2-6 p.m . Kugelmann, together with the companies BASF SE, SCHOTT AG and Boehringer Ingelheim, held the cooperation event "180 days DSGVO - examples from everyday practice" on the premises of BASF in Ludwigshafen.©
                            BASF SE This event continues the event “125-Day GDPR – Examples from Daily Practice”. Since the latter met with a great response and considerable interest from the economy, the LfDI and its cooperation partners agreed on follow-up events at which companies will present their implementation and application of the GDPR. The LfDI reported on the concept and focal points of its supervisory practice, while representatives from the companies BASF SE, Boehringer Ingelheim, SCHOTT AG and Birkenstock GmbH & Co KG discussed the application of the General Data Protection Regulation in business. Implementation experiences were presented and concrete implementation issues discussed. The LfDI, Prof. Kugelmann, states: “The companies in Rhineland-Palatinate offer many good examples of the implementation of the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation. This proves that the realization of data protection is not only possible, but can also have positive economic consequences. On the other hand, the number of complaints received by the LfDI is likely to have increased fivefold. With information, warnings, orders or fines, the state commissioner has a wide range of options to remedy deficits and to enforce the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation in a targeted and effective manner in the event of any violations. Bring in questions from your own work context. Further events in the same format will follow, probably in the first and second quarter of 2019. Information material on the event "180-Day GDPR" can be found here: InvitationLectures
                                return
                            



