

Bonn/Berlin, August 23, 2018


Press release 08/2018


  Government Open Day
On August 25th and 26th, 2018, the Federal Government's Open Day will take place in Berlin for the twentieth time. The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Andrea Voßhoff, invites interested parties to visit her stand in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, Building and Community (BMI).

Andrea Voßhoff: This year, the data protection law applicable in Germany was put on a new footing. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) represents a milestone for the human right to the protection of personal data. It strengthens the rights of citizens, which you can find out about at the BfDI stand. I am looking forward to your visit.
Visitors can look forward to stimulating and informative discussions about data protection and freedom of information. Interested parties are invited to test their knowledge in the data protection quiz. The BfDI provides information brochures and flyers on various data protection issues, which you are welcome to take with you or order free of charge from the information center on the website at www.datenschutz.bund.de.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











