1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00172/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated November 24, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against Vodafone Servicios, S.L.U. with NIF B87539284 (in
hereinafter, the claimed or Vodafone).

The claimant states that Vodafone had improperly included his data
in the delinquency files, specifically, in the solvency file
patrimonial and credit Asnef, despite having paid the debt within the term
granted for this purpose by the claimed party.
Provide the following documentation:

- Letter from Vodafone dated November 17, 2020 in which it is required
the payment of XX.XX euros warning of the possibility of including your data
personal in the Badexcug file.

- Letter from Asnef-Equifax dated November 19, 2020 in which it was
communicates that on November 18, 2020, the respondent has requested the
registration in the Asnef file for an unpaid amount of XX.XX euros.

- Proof of payment.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred to the claimed party on January 22, 2021, in accordance with the
established in article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter,
LOPDGDD), in the actions with reference E/00268/2021. The notification is
performed electronically, and figure delivered on the same date.

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 65.2 of the Organic Law
3/2018, on Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), in
On April 13, 2021, the agreement to process the claim is signed.

FOURTH: On April 23, 2021, the respondent states that it proceeds to
send a letter to the claimant informing him of the investigation carried out by Vodafone.
Enclosing as document number 1 the aforementioned letter, putting in
knowledge of the claimant that their data is not included in any file of
negative equity solvency and that your customer account has no active services and
up to date with payments in Vodafone systems.

FIFTH: On June 9, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1 d) of the RGPD, in relation to article 20.1
d) of the LOPDGDD typified in Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD.

SIXTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the entity claimed, by means of a letter of
dated June 30, 2021, made, in summary, the following allegations:
“On the alleged inclusion in the Asnef file, the claimant maintained a debt
pending payment for the amount of XX.XX€. As a result of this debt, the
On September 14, 2020, you were sent a letter from Equifax informing you that if
did not pay within the established period, it would be included in the Asnef file. attached as
Document number 2 evidence of sending the letter by Equifax. Not receiving payment in
the planned term, dated November 18, 2020, was included in the Asnef file.
On the other hand, dated November 17, 2020, a letter was sent to him by
Experian, informing the interested party that, if he does not pay within the established term, he will be
will include in the Badex file. The claimant made the payment of the debt on the 23rd of
November 2020, date on which said payment was recorded by updating the systems
in order to eliminate the claimant's debt. For this reason, it was not included in the
BADEX file and the removal of the claimant from the Asnef file was requested, becoming
effective on November 26, 2020.
The Claimant, as he himself indicates in his pleadings, made the payment of the
amount owed on November 23, 2020, the date on which there was already
After the term offered in the procedure initiated by Equifax (14
September 2020). For this reason, the Complainant was included in the Asnef file. By
On the contrary, the payment of this amount was made on time with respect to the procedure
initiated by Experian, which is why in no case your data was included in the
BADEX file. As a result of the payment made by the Claimant on December 23,
November 2020, Vodafone requested its removal from the ASNEF file, becoming
effective on November 26, 2020.
 FIFTH: On July 12, 2021, the respondent was notified of the opening of the
testing period, considering all the previous actions incorporated, as well as
as the documents provided by the claimed entity.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On November 24, 2020, the claimant states that the respondent
had improperly included their personal data in the information file
credit Asnef, despite having paid the debt on November 23, 2020 within
of the period granted for this purpose.
SECOND: The payment request notification was made on the 14th
September 2020 by Vodafone, in which they demanded payment of the debt
contracted by the claimant for an amount of XX.XX euros and warned that his
Data could be included in the Asnef file if the non-payment situation is maintained,
giving a period of less than 30 calendar days from the date of the letter (14
September 2020) to regularize the situation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

THIRD: There is proof of transfer made by the claimant on November 23,
2020 to Vodafone for an amount of XX.XX euros, and remittance of proof of payment
of the operation carried out to the one claimed, on the same date.
FOURTH: It is stated that the high and low date in Asnef was November 18 and 26,
2020.

FIFTH: It is verified that the claimant paid the debt outside the granted period, the
November 23, 2020, with a deadline of October 14, 2020.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Law 39/2015, of Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(LPACAP) establishes in its article 89.1 that "the termination of the
procedure, with filing of the actions, without the need to formulate
of the proposed resolution, when in the instruction of the procedure it is stated
I declare that any of the following circumstances exist:

a) The non-existence of the facts that could constitute the infraction”.

III

The defendant is charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of article 5 of
the principles that must govern the processing of personal data and mentions among
them the one of “Accuracy”. The provision provides:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
d) “accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (<<accuracy>>)”

The LOPDGDD, in its article 20, under the rubric of "Information systems

credit” provides:

"1. Unless proven otherwise, the data processing will be presumed lawful.
related to the breach of monetary, financial or
credit through common credit information systems when the requirements are met.
following requirements:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

a) That the data have been provided by the creditor or by someone acting on his behalf.

account or interest.

b) That the data refer to certain, overdue and payable debts, whose
existence or amount had not been the subject of an administrative or judicial claim for
the debtor or through an alternative dispute resolution procedure
binding between the parties.

c) That the creditor has informed the affected party in the contract or at the time
to require payment about the possibility of inclusion in said systems, with
indication of those in which it participates.

The entity that maintains the credit information system with relative data
non-compliance with monetary, financial or credit obligations must notify
to the affected the inclusion of such data and will inform you about the possibility of exercising
the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
within thirty days after notification of the debt to the system,
The data remains blocked during that period.

d) That the data is only kept in the system while the problem persists.
default, with a maximum limit of five years from the expiration date of
monetary, financial or credit obligation.

e) That the data referring to a specific debtor can only be
consulted when the person consulting the system maintained a contractual relationship
with the affected party that implies the payment of a pecuniary amount or this would have
requested the conclusion of a contract that involves financing, deferred payment or
periodic billing, as happens, among other cases, in those provided for in the
legislation of consumer credit contracts and real estate credit contracts.

When the right to limit the
processing of the data contesting its accuracy in accordance with the provisions of article
18.1.a) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the system will inform those who may
consult it in accordance with the previous paragraph about the mere existence of said
circumstance, without providing the specific data with respect to which
exercised the right, while it is resolved on the request of the affected.

f) That, in the event that the request to conclude the contract is denied, or
this will not be held, as a result of the consultation carried out, whoever has
consulted, the system informs the affected party of the result of said consultation.

2. The entities that maintain the system and the creditors, regarding the
treatment of the data referred to their debtors, will have the condition of
co-responsible for data processing, being applicable what is established by
Article 26 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

It will be up to the creditor to ensure that the requirements for

the inclusion in the debt system, answering for its non-existence or inaccuracy.

3. The presumption referred to in section 1 of this article does not cover the
assumptions in which the credit information was associated by the entity that
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

kept the system to additional information to those contemplated in said
section, related to the debtor and obtained from other sources, in order to carry out
out a profiling of the same, in particular through the application of techniques of
credit rating.”

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

In the case at hand, after a detailed study of the documents
arising in this proceeding, and the allegations of the claimed party,
We must point out that the file shows that the notification of the request for
payment was made on September 14, 2020 by the claimed party, in the
that the payment of the debt contracted by the claimant for an amount of
XX.XX euros and warned that their data could be included in the Asnef file of
maintain the non-payment situation, giving a period of 30 calendar days from
from the date of the letter (September 14, 2020) to regularize the
situation.
On the other hand, there is evidence of a transfer made by the claimant on November 23,
2020 to Vodafone for an amount of XX.XX euros, and remittance of proof of payment
of the operation carried out to the one claimed, on the same date.
It is verified that the high and low date in Asnef was November 18 and 26, 2020.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Finally, it should be noted that the claimant paid the debt after the deadline
granted, on November 23, 2020, with a term until October 14,
2020.
Therefore, the file of this sanctioning procedure proceeds.

In view of the aforementioned precepts and others of general application, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE sanctioning procedure PS/00172/2021, instructed to
Vodafone Services, S.L.U. with NIF B87539284, for having proven that the
claimant paid the contracted debt outside the granted period.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Vodafone Servicios, S.L.U. with NIF
B87539284.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

