
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    03/16/2020
                                Information on data protection in times of the corona virus©
                            Thor_Deichmann / pixabay.comThe data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments make it clear that the protection of personal data and measures to combat infection do not conflict and publish information for employers and employers on how to deal with data protection in connection with the corona pandemic.
Due to the current measures to contain the corona pandemic, employers and employees are wondering to what extent data on the state of health and related situations can be processed in a legally secure manner.
“Health information is very sensitive data. Anyone who collects or processes such data must be aware of their special responsibility." Dieter Kugelman. "As long as the measures taken by employers and employers are proportionate, data protection does not stand in the way of infection control. Because the health of the citizens is now the focus.”
Data can be collected and used in accordance with data protection regulations for a number of measures to contain the corona pandemic or to protect employees. For example, personal data may be collected from employees in order to prevent the virus from spreading among the workforce as best as possible. It is also possible to collect personal data from guests and visitors. You can find more information in the following information from the data protection supervisory authorities.
Data processing in times of the corona virus Even in the current risk situation caused by the corona virus, those responsible may only process personal data if they have a legal basis for this.
Due to the current restrictions on public life, those responsible such as clubs, restaurant operators or other organizers are sometimes obliged to collect certain personal data, e.g. of their guests or members, and to keep it available for further checks if necessary. These requirements result from the municipal general decrees, which in turn are based on the Infection Protection Act. Those responsible are therefore subject to a legal obligation to collect and store certain personal data. Consequently, the corresponding data processing is based on Article 6 Paragraph 1 Letter c of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in conjunction with the Infection Protection Act.
In order to ensure that the person responsible proceeds in accordance with the requirements, e.g. deletes the data after the measures are no longer applicable, data subjects can assert their rights under the General Data Protection Regulation vis-à-vis the person responsible, e.g. first request information in accordance with Article 15 GDPR and then, if necessary, deletion in accordance with Art. 17 GDPR.
Further information:Notes from the data protection supervisory authorities on how to deal with data protection during the corona pandemicPodcast of the LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate on the subject of "Corona and employee data protection"Notes of the LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate on the subject of "Corona and employee data protection" [updated on 17.03.2020]
                                return
                            



