 

 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

December 23, 2021

 “Privacy made easy: Snow White” –

Radio play children's project to raise awareness in handling

with personal data

 
Things are actually going quite well for Snow White after her escape.

Chen, she's safe - until the evil queen finds out

where she hides After that it escalates. - Almost every one

Child knows the fairy tale of Snow White and the Seven

dwarves. Very many fairy tale interpretations from different

Perspectives allow an intensive examination of

the classic of fairy tales.

 

A central aspect of the drama surrounding Snow White is that

the terrible queen not only malicious, vain and envious

but finds out where Snow White lives:

Behind the seven mountains with the seven dwarfs...

 

For the new series "Data protection child's play?!"

commissioned, the fairy tale is a very good opportunity to

child-friendly about the importance of highly personal data

speak.

 

- 2 -

The first episode of the series was about "Rumpelstiltskin"

and the meaning of the name. Now it's about Snow White

chen and the question of the place of residence.

 

The radio play is aimed at children, parents and responsible

who look after children of preschool age. the snow white

chen children's project includes:

 

 

 The radio play Snow White

 The DingDongLied snow as a music video with subtitles

 The DingDongLied-Snow as mp3

 The fairy tale text with and without direction tips

 Instructions and information for the Snow White project

LfDI Stefan Brink: "The General Data Protection Regulation

obliges us to handle personal data

to raise awareness. With our series 'Privacy made easy'

we offer easily accessible offers especially for children,

so that parents, educators and other responsible persons

deal with these important child protection issues

be able."

 

You can find the radio play and all contributions to the children's pro-

project "Privacy made easy, Episode II, Snow White".

the

home page

of

state representative

Brink:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz-

dead easy/.

 

