1/6

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00050/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: On 02/14/18, this Agency received a claim sent by the
City Council of Tarrassa (Local Police), through which it transfers the following
facts:

“That displaced members of the local Police to ***ADDRESS.1,
notes that sexual services are being offered there, noting the
presence of a video-surveillance camera, in order to control the
workers who are at home

"That the Agents observe how in the corridor (...) there is a video camera-
surveillance. Which is connected through an IP that gives access to the number of
telephone ***TELEFONO.1, which allows identifying the person responsible for the activity --
(folio no. 1)--.

Together with the claim, it provides photographic material (Annex I) that allows
verify the presence of a hidden camera oriented towards the corridor area and
entrance of the house, where there are several rooms on both sides of it.

Mr. A.A.A. is identified as the main person responsible, by the acting force,

which does not proceed to explain the cause/reason for the installation of the device.

SECOND: On May 8, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

THIRD: When the database of this organization was consulted (07/10/19), there is no evidence that
the defendant has made any allegation in this regard, stating as
“Notified” the Start Agreement with the facts mentioned above.

FOURTH: Of the actions carried out, the following have been accredited
proven facts:

First. On 02/14/18, this Agency received a claim sent by
the City Council of Tarrasa (Local Police), through which it transfers the following
facts:

“That displaced members of the local Police to ***ADDRESS.1,
notes that sexual services are being offered there, noting the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

presence of a video-surveillance camera, in order to control the
workers who are at home

“That the Agents observe how in the corridor (...) there is a video-surveillance camera.
Which is connected through an IP that gives access to the phone number
***TELEPHONE.1, which allows identifying the person responsible for the activity --(folio nº
1)-

Second. It is identified as the main person in charge of the facility Mr.

A.A.A.

Third. The installation of a recording device of
images, in the corridor area of the property, confirming the presence of the
same by the declaration of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

Fourth. It is proven that there was no informative poster, being the

installed with a clear purpose of control inside the property.

Fifth. The defendant has not argued in the way that in his case
informed the employees of the property about the treatment of their personal data
staff.

FUNDAMENTALS OF
 

 LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (hereinafter GDPR); recognizes each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim transferred to this Agency
by the City Council of Terrassa (Municipal Police) through which they transfer
The main fact is the following:

“That displaced members of the local Police to ***ADDRESS.1,
notes that sexual services are being offered there, noting the
presence of a video-surveillance camera, in order to control the
workers who are at home" --(folio nº 1)--.

Together with the claim, it provides photographic material (Annex I) that allows
verify the presence of a hidden camera facing the corridor area,
where there are various rooms on both sides of it.

3/6

Don A.A.A. is identified as the main person responsible, by the acting force.

It should be noted that the installation of video surveillance cameras cannot be carried out
with the purpose of carrying out a control of areas reserved for the workers of the
Center, such as the hallway and entrance area of the home.

The foregoing supposes an affectation to the privacy of the employees, who are
controlled in their activities by the person in charge of the system without just cause.

There is no evidence that the employees have been informed of their rights in relation to
to the "processing of your data" of a personal nature, nor is the presence
of this type of device inside a private home.

The foregoing supposes a conduct that violates the content of the provisions

in article 5.1 letter c) RGPD, “The personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

Since this type of device is not designed to control the activity of
employees of the home, nor exercise uninformed control over potential visitors
of the same.

The LOPGDD in its article 72.1.a) indicates: "Infringements considered very serious

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

III

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of art. 5

section 1 letter c) RGPD. “Personal data will be:

b

adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed ("data minimization").

The defendant has proceeded to install a video-surveillance device inside
of the property, without just cause, so that you can control through the
mobile device, what happens inside it, thus controlling
the employees who carry out their activity in it, affecting their right to
privacy and image without just cause.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

Article 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following:

“The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
condition of authority and in which, observing the legal requirements
corresponding the facts verified by those are gathered will prove of
unless proven otherwise”.

Documentary evidence is attached (Image nº 1 and 2) that proves the presence of the
device in question, oriented towards the corridor area, in such a way that it allows
control the entrances/exits of the rooms of the property, exercising control
on their privacy in a disproportionate manner and lacking any
type of information.

SAW

According to the evidence provided in this proceeding, it is confirmed that
presence of a video-surveillance device inside a private home,
with the presumed purpose of controlling the employees of the same, without stating that
they have been informed of their rights within the framework of the regulations in force
and without justifying the presence of the device in question in the area where it is
find installed.

Article 83 section 2 of the RGPD provides the following: “The fines
administrative will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case
individually, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures referred to in article
58, section 2, letters a) to h) and j).

  When deciding the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount in each case
individual, due account shall be taken of:

 The nature of the infraction, since the installed device affects privacy
of the employees who are controlled by it, without having been
informed of their rights, also affecting an area that lacks
sense to video-monitor it as is the interior of the property

 the intentionality or negligence in the infraction; in the present case, the
denounced must know that the installation of this type of
devices and even less not informing the employees and/or clients of the
domicile, so their behavior should be considered at least serious.

The foregoing, without prejudice to the fact that, as a result of this procedure, it may be
require the immediate removal of the apparatus in question from the corridor area, providing
documentary evidence (photograph with date and time) that proves such end before this
body, based on the provisions of art. 58.2 d) RGPD, as well as any other
measure deemed appropriate to adapt the irregular situation to the regulations of
personal data protection.

When motivating the economic sanction, it is taken into account that the conduct
described supposes a full affectation to the right to privacy (art. 18 CE) of the
workers of the Center, who are permanently controlled by the device

5/6

in question, "treating your data" without any information about it in a
free transit zone.

The conduct must be qualified as malicious because the intention of the
itself seems blatant, which is none other than controlling the employees and clients of the
property (art. 83.2 b).

It has not collaborated in any way with this Control Authority,
mitigating adverse effects, such as with the removal of the camera from the
scene of the events (art.83.2 f).

In accordance with the foregoing, it is considered correct to order the imposition of
an administrative sanction encrypted in the amount of €9,000 (Nine Thousand Euros)
depending on the circumstances of the specific case.

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE Don A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article
5.1 c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €9,000 (nine
A thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the defendant Mr. A.A.A.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

