1/13

 Procedure No.: PS/00406/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated July 30, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against EQUIFAX IBERICA, S.L. with NIF B80855398 (in what
successively, the claimed or EQUIFAX). The grounds on which the claim is based are that
Your data has been included in the asset and credit solvency file Asnef-
Equifax without such debt existing and without notifying her that it was going to be included. That once
included in said file has not been notified either.

And, among other things, it provides the following documentation:

 Copy of letter addressed to the claimant and sent by Testa Residencial Socimi, S.A.

dated June 20, 2019 where it is stated:

o “Contract termination date”: 08/02/2019
o “Relative to”: ***ADDRESS.1
o It contains, among other things, the following text: “…We take this opportunity to remind you
that, according to our accounting entries, to date owes the sum of XXXX.XX €
for non-payment of rent...

 Copy of letter addressed to the claimant and sent by Testa Residencial Socimi, S.A.

dated June 10, 2019 where:

o It contains, among other things, the following text: “That in relation to the lease agreement
number, ***REFERENCE.1 that we have with you on the property located in
*** ADDRESS.1, has been detected in our accounting entries of "Testa
Residencial Socimi, S.A." an outstanding debt of XXXX.XX €. – euros,
corresponding to the non-payment of receipts for May 2018 (debt assigned by
Building Center) July 2018 as well as February, March, April, May and June 2019 and
consumption.”

 Copy of letter addressed to Testa Residencial Socimi, S.A. and forwarded by the claimant

where it consists:

o That this letter is a response to the one received on June 13, 2019.
o That the debt for the month of May and July 2018 does not exist, since the one for May was
carried out transfer of the YYY€ that they claimed, by the city council of Gijón.
That a copy of the proof of payment was sent to Testa on March 23, 2019.

o That regarding the debt for the month of July 2018, they were not given a receipt.
o That regarding the payments for the months of February, March, April, May, June, July

2019 they were asked to use the Security Deposit and the bond for payment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

o That your family is considered severely vulnerable at risk of

social exclusion.

 Copy of letter addressed to the claimant and sent by Financiera El Corte

English. dated July 12, 2019 where the text appears:
“Having reviewed your Financing request, we have consulted your data in the
Patrimonial Solvency Files. We inform, in accordance with the legislation
in force, which as of today, you appear with annotations in the following
file:
ASNEF-Equifax
For this reason, your funding request has not been accepted.”

 Copy of "housing rental contract" dated August 3,
2016 and signed by the complainant and Buildingcenter, S.A.U. as part
landlord regarding the dwelling “*** ADDRESS.1” where it is stated:

o In the “ADDITIONAL GUARANTEE” section:

“…both parties agree to guarantee the payment of rent and
any other economic obligations arising from the contract,
as well as possible responsibilities of any other kind,
arising from the occupation or breach of the lease of
in addition to the deposit, by delivering to Buildingcenter S.A.U.
of a deposit for a maximum amount of two thousand five hundred and fifty
with zero cents equivalent to six monthly rent payments (2,550.00
€. The total or partial execution of said deposit is optional
Buildingcenter S.A.U, which may exhaust other ways to obtain payment
and/or the resolution of the contract independent of the guarantee that the
deposit supposes.”

o “3.- RETURN OF POSSESSION.- At the end of the
lease, whatever the cause that produces it, the
LESSEE must leave the HOUSING free, empty, and expedited,
disposal of the LESSOR, as well as free of charge,
obligations and debts of any kind, without prior notice
or by request, within twenty-four (24) hours following the
aforementioned completion, delivering within said period the dwelling to the
LESSOR in the manner resulting from the provisions of the
fifth clause of this document.”

o There is no notice of a possible communication of the data of the

complainant to delinquency files in case of non-payment.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

The actions carried out since the claim was received are those

following:

On August 27, 2019, it was agreed to reject the claim.

On September 27, 2019, the claimant filed an appeal for

replacement by providing the following documentation, among others:

1. Letter addressed to the claimant sent by EQUIFAX and dated the 5th of
September 2019 where it is stated that they have proceeded to precautionary discharge with the
Entities Testa Residencial Socimi, S.A. in the ASNEF data file
associated with the claimant.

two.

EQUIFAX report dated 08/27/2019 regarding the claimant and the
operations in the ASNEF file where it consists:

a. In the "Name" field: the name and surname of the claimant
b. In the “Address” field: “***ADDRESS.1”
c.
d. In the “Date of registration” field: 05/20/2019
and. In the field "Unpaid Current Balance": XXXX,XX

“In the field “Ent. Informant”: “TESTA RESD. SOCIMI SA”

3.

EQUIFAX report dated 09/05/2019 regarding the claimant and the
operations in the ASNEF file where there is no data.

4. Copy of letter addressed to Testa Residencial Socimi, S.A. and forwarded by the

claimant where it is stated:

a. That this letter is a response to the one received on the 13th of

June 2019.

b. That on May 21, 2019 you are informed by Asnef-
Equifax that on May 20, 2019 the entity Testa Residencial
Socimi, S.A. has requested registration in said file regarding their data
personal.

c. That Testa has never communicated to him by letter

certified to be included in delinquency files.

5. Copy of email addressed to the email of the claimant and
sent by the email address resolvers@tetainmo.com at
date June 11, 2019 where it is stated, among other aspects:

a.

“Tell him that he must pay the debt he has today, if not, he will be
will include in the Asnef delinquency file.”

On October 23, 2019, an approving resolution is issued.

On July 15, 2020, Equifax Ibérica, S.L. sends this Agency the following

information and demonstrations:

1.
That query is provided to the auxiliary file of notifications in the file
Asnef with the breakdown of the notification corresponding to the entity Testa
Residencial Socimi, S.A. with reference 740/2019051302778.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

Provides screenshot dated 07/13/2020 of consultation of letters sent
to the claimant with issue date 05/21/2019 where the reference of
letter 2019-05-1302778 and the entity TESTA RESIDENCIAL SO and the tax balance.
of RRRR,RR€.

That a copy of the Reference Inclusion Notification is provided
740/2019051302778 issued, as well as Certification issued by the provider
of the Service of Generation, Printing, and Provision of the Service of
Postal Shipments -Correos and/or Unipost-, SERVINFORM, S.A., certifying the
carrying out the reference inclusion notification, along with the rest of the
communications issued in the process generated on May 21,
2019, without any incident occurring in the process, which would have
prevented its execution, and that it was made available to the shipping service
postcards on May 22, 2019.

Provides a copy of the letter sent to the complainant dated May 21, 2019
with reference 740/2019051302778 where it states "We inform you that with
date 05/20/2019 the entity TESTA RESIDENCIAL SOCIMI, S.A. has requested
the registration in the ASNEF file the following personal data related to the non-payment
of the contract that it maintains with said entity:”.

It provides a certificate from SERVINFORM, S.A. as a service provider
Generation of Notifications of Inclusion of ASNEF EQUIFAX, stating
that certifies the generation, printing, and putting into service of shipments
postcards, on May 22, 2019 the communication with the number of
reference 2019051302778 addressed to A.A.A. residing at ***ADDRESS.1.
Provide a copy of the Correos delivery note with reference 27537-CREDI,
with office 2812096 and dated 05/22/2019.

Provide a copy of the ILUNION IT SERVICES certificate; S.A.U., as provider
of the service to EQUIFAX of recording and custody of the returns of the
notifications, stating that currently it does not appear in deposit and custody
at the offices of ILUNION IT SERVICES; S.A.U. referral notification
740/2019051302778 nor has it been processed for any reason of
return.

On July 22, 2020, Testa Residencial Socimi, S.A. refer to this

Agency the following information and statements:

1. That “The personalized and individualized communication sent to the claimant
prior to the inclusion of your personal data in files of
information on equity and credit solvency, is carried out directly by
Equifax Iberica S.L.”

A copy of the contract of "Provision of Services for the Notification of the
Prior Payment Request” signed on October 1, 2018 between
Equifax Iberica S.L. and Testa Residencial Socimi, S.A. (the CLIENT) where
consists:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

“CLAUSES:

FIRST.- PURPOSE: The purpose of this contract is the provision
of EQUIFAX services to the CUSTOMER consisting of sending the letter of
payment requirement prior to the inclusion of data in solvency files
patrimonial and credit, in accordance with the operation described in Annex II to the
this contract.”

1. That “Request submissions are not made by TESTA RESIDENCIAL
SOCIMI, S.A. directly but by a third entity EQUIFAX IBERICA
S.L.”

2. In response to the request for the certificate of the third party sending the
communication to the claimant, prior to the inclusion of their personal data in
asset and credit solvency information files, it is stated that
“Taking into account the provisions of point 2 above, according to which the
personalized and individualized communication sent to the claimant is carried out
carried out by EQUIFAX IBERICA S.L., it is up to said entity to present
copy of the requested certificate.

THIRD: On November 27, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that: "the Sanctioning Body itself
makes an assessment in the Start Agreement (in advance and lacking motivation
any), from the responsibility of Equifax.

The Home Agreement specifies the amount of the reduction that would apply in the event of
acknowledgment by Equifax of its alleged liability and voluntary payment of the
sanction, in the opinion of this party, the rules established in article 85 are not
applicable in the present case.

That Equifax did not include the data of the claimant in the ASNEF file
because it is not the entity that manages it, but TESTA as a creditor entity,
Therefore, there is no treatment allegedly carried out by
EQUIFAX and that initiates the sanctioning file initiated before it.

Indeed, EQUIFAX acquired a series of contractual obligations in the
provision of services for sending notifications (in this case, of requirements
prior payment) but this, in no case, may involve displacement of the
liability in a legally established obligation for the creditor to
in charge of treatment by the mere assumption of contractual obligations
by a private agreement between the parties.

Equifax Ibérica S.L. complied with the provision order relating to the sending of
prior payment requirements to the claimant as demonstrated in the
attached documents.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

Asnef-Equifax canceled the data in a precautionary manner at the request of the exercise of
cancellation of the affected party in the absence of a response from the person responsible for guaranteeing
the accuracy of the data (TESTA).

That a resolution be issued declaring the nullity of the procedure as of right, or
failing that, the imposition of a warning or reprimand or a reduction
significant amount of the amount established in the Start Agreement, in view of the
numerous concurrent circumstances in the alleged fact prosecuted.

FIFTH: On December 29, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/10196/2019, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SIXTH: On January 19, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that EQUIFAX IBERICA be sanctioned in the amount of 50,000 euros,
SL with NIF B80855398, for the alleged violation of article 6.1. f) of the RGPD, in
relation to article 20.1 c) of the LOPDGDD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the
quoted GDPR

That by means of a letter dated January 28, 2021, the respondent requested an extension
term, which was granted.

SEVENTH: On February 9, 2021, the respondent makes allegations to the
motion for a resolution, ratifying the previous allegations and in summary
states that: “both communications demonstrate the sending by Equifax of
the two prior payment requirements made by Testa Residencial, S.A. (What
creditor of the debt) to the claimant prior to the inclusion of their data
in the “Asnef” solvency file.

Equifax sent the two communications that Testa Residencial Socimi, S.A. I "ll guide you
by uploading the content of the letter into Equifax systems in accordance with the
operation indicated in the Contract for the provision of services in its FIFTH clause
obligations and responsibilities that “At no time will Equifax be responsible
of the content of the letter, this being the full responsibility of the Client”
thus evidencing that Equifax is a mere delivery service provider but is the
responsible nor does he have to know the content of the communication
regardless of whether it is a "Prior request for payment".

Since Equifax is not responsible for the content of the communication, nor is the
bound by the principle of information contained in article 20.1.c), it is by
therefore, it is completely impossible to be responsible for whether or not said requirement includes the
obligation to inform the affected party about the possibility of including their data in the
credit information systems.
The claimed party requests the annulment or, failing that, the filing of the procedure or, failing that,
defect, the imposition of a warning notice or a reduction
significant amount of the amount established in the Start Agreement.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is stated, in the "Provision of Services for the Notification of the
Prior Payment Request” signed on October 1, 2018 between Equifax
Iberian S.L. and Testa Residencial Socimi, S.A. that personalized communication and
individualized sent to the claimant prior to the inclusion of their data
personal information files of capital solvency and credit, it is carried out
carried out directly by Equifax Iberica S.L. where it consists:

“CLAUSES:

FIRST.- PURPOSE: The purpose of this contract is the provision of
EQUIFAX services to the CLIENT consisting of sending the letter of
payment requirement prior to the inclusion of data in solvency files
patrimonial and credit, in accordance with the operation described in Annex II to the
this contract.”

That “Request submissions are not made by TESTA RESIDENCIAL
SOCIMI, S.A. directly but by a third entity EQUIFAX IBERICA
S.L.”

In response to the request for the certificate of the third party sending the
communication to the claimant, prior to the inclusion of their personal data in
solvency and credit information files, it is stated that "Having
taking into account the provisions of point 2 above, according to which the communication
personalized and individualized sent to the claimant is carried out by EQUIFAX
IBERICA S.L., it is up to said entity to present a copy of the requested certificate.”

SECOND: The claimant was included in the financial solvency file and
credit on May 20, 2019, in connection with a debt, for rent,
with the creditor entity Testa Residencial.

The claimant provides both the rental contract (in whose clause of protection of
data does not refer to the possibility of inclusion in credit information systems),
as the communications received from the creditor entity, requiring payment, but
without noting its inclusion in the asset and credit solvency file.

THIRD: EQUIFAX provides a copy of the notification letter to the claimant dated
April 24, 2019, requiring payment of the debt, but no information is available
about the possibility of inclusion in said file if the payment is not made.

-220920

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

         Article 58 of the RGPD, “Powers of Attorney”, says:

II

                 “2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers
corrections listed below:
(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;
(...)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.
(…)
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of the case
particular
(…)”

III

The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them that of "lawfulness, loyalty and
transparency". The provision provides:

"1. The personal data will be:

a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the

interested party (<<legality, loyalty and transparency>>);”

          Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests
pursued by the controller or by a third party, provided that on
such interests do not override the interests or rights and freedoms
fundamental data of the interested party that require the protection of personal data, in
particularly when the interested party is a child. The provisions of letter f) of paragraph
first will not apply to the treatment carried out by public authorities in
the exercise of its functions.”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:
            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 f) of the RGPD, for processing data without
legitimacy, obligation established in article 20.1 c) of the LOPDGDD, that is
I include the data of the claimant in the Asnef file without previously requiring the
payment.

Article 20.1 c) of the LOPDGDD establishes:

“That the creditor has informed the affected party in the contract or at the time of
require payment about the possibility of inclusion in said systems, with
indication of those in which it participates.
The entity that maintains the credit information system with data related to the
Non-compliance with monetary, financial or credit obligations must notify the
affected the inclusion of such data and will inform you about the possibility of exercising the
rights established in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 within
thirty days following notification of the debt to the system, remaining
The data is blocked during that period.”

Therefore, the data was included in the Asnef file without requiring

prior to payment in contravention of the requirements contained in the LOPDGDD.

EQUIFAX provides a copy of the notification letter to the claimant dated March 24,
April 2019, requiring the payment of the debt, but without stating the warning that
in case of non-payment, it would be included in the asset solvency file and
of credit.

Now, in the lease agreement entered into on August 3, 2016
with Testa as there is no information in the contract or in the prior request for
payment the elements are not fulfilled so that this treatment can be presumed
protected by legitimate interest and therefore has been carried out without a legitimate basis. Of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

in accordance with the contract for the provision of services provided between Testa and Equifax
Ibérica, this last entity will be the one in charge of making the request
prior payment prior to inclusion in the asset and credit solvency file,
without its shipment and receipt by the claimant having been accredited.

It is clear, and this is the essential, the above makes the treatment of the data
of the claimant is not legitimate, given that the budgets established
in article 20.1 c) of the LOPDGDD.

v

          In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:
         "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the
sanction of a fine to be imposed in the present case, the defendant is considered as
responsible for an infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, they are estimated
the following factors concur.

As aggravating the following:

In the present case we are dealing with an unintentional negligent action, but

-
identified significant (article 83.2 b).
-
claimed (article 83.2 d).

The duration of the illegitimate treatment of the data of the affected person carried out by the

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on the person claimed

and set it at the amount of €50,000 for the infringement of article 6.1 f) of the RGPD.

 
Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE EQUIFAX IBERICA, S.L. with NIF B80855398 for a
infringement of Article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of fifty thousand euros (50,000 euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to EQUIFAX IBERICA, S.L. with NIF
B80855398.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/YYY5, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of the Law
58/YYY3, of December 17, by entering, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and
the procedure number that appears at the top of this document, in
restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

