

PROFESSIONAL-EDUCATIONAL MEETING "PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA OF CHILDREN IN THE DIGITAL AGE" IS ONE OF THE ACTIVITIES THAT THE AGENCY FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA CELEBRATES THIS YEAR'S EUROPEAN DAY OF PERSONAL PROTECTION
(Zagreb, January 28, 2019)
Organized by the Personal Data Protection Agency, today, January 28, 2019, at the House of Europe in Zagreb, and on the occasion of the European Day of Personal Data Protection, a professional-educational conference called "Protection of personal data of children in the digital age" was organized.
The gathering brought together experts from several key institutions dealing with the protection of children and their rights, such as: representatives of the Personal Data Protection Agency, the Ombudsperson for Children, representatives of the Cyber Security Service and juvenile delinquency and crime against youth and families of the Police Directorate, SRCE , CARNET and HAKOM.
Given that children are recognized as a particularly vulnerable group in society and that the General Data Protection Regulation places special emphasis on children and the protection of their personal data, the Agency contributes to raising awareness of the importance of protecting children's personal data. and the need for continuous public awareness on this topic.
All participants in the meeting finally agreed on the need to invest joint efforts of institutions and society as a whole, with the aim of more effective protection of children and their rights.
The Personal Data Protection Agency will also organize two more events in the continuation of its activities on the occasion of the European Personal Data Protection Day and enable all interested parties to learn more about the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency and personal data protection in general.
Announcement:
- on Tuesday, January 29, 2019, from 10:00 to 15:00, an Open Day was organized in the Agency's premises,
- on Saturday, February 2, 2019 from 09:00 to 20:00 in the City Center One West info point AZOP (time and place where citizens can get information about personal data protection).
The most important messages of the professional-educational conference "Protection of personal data of children in the digital age":
"We are the ones who need to be aware that children and young people need to be connected to the world of opportunity and encouraged to take advantage of those same digital age opportunities that benefit their education, information, connectivity, etc., but equally, all together." we must create a strong awareness that it is always necessary to take care of protecting our data and protecting children's privacy in order to minimize: vulnerability, risks of possible threats, risks to our own safety and damage and risks of identity, reputation and loss of privacy. " pointed out the director of the Agency for Personal Data Protection.
From the Office of the Ombudsperson for Children, we would like to single out one of the messages sent, and it refers to the recommendation of the Office of the Ombudsperson to avoid photographing children and using children for party and political activities.
Representatives of the Police Directorate pointed out the worrying fact that recently the phenomenon has become more and more noticeable, that more and more young children are becoming victims of crimes committed via the Internet. These are criminal offenses of classic misuse of personal data - violation of the child's privacy, illegal use of personal data, illegal image content and recording, sexual harassment and exploitation via the Internet, etc. These are children aged eight and over.
HAKOM points out that society as a whole is already struggling with all these challenges in which children need to be protected, but the period that is coming and we do not know what it brings us, except that it will bring even more changes and challenges, certainly is a new 5G network that is being introduced and artificial intelligence and machine learning that is constantly evolving. For this reason, it is necessary to create a framework through which all those interested in the topic of child safety on the Internet will work together on coordinated projects aimed at protecting children.
The Director of the University Computing Center (SRCE) of the University of Zagreb, spoke from the perspective of data processors as the bearer of authentication and authorization infrastructure of the science and education system within which they have over 920 thousand electronic identities of children and youth. in this sense, the activities undertaken by SRCE towards data processing managers were presented in order to keep the entire system of personal data protection and exchange of personal data at the highest possible level.
The representative of CARNET pointed out that we should all work together on the development of value systems, and that the dangers and risks that are reduced with the development of technology. We need to raise children in a way that is a user who can deal with all threats and respond to threats in the right way, regardless of whether the child has encountered a potential threat before or not. The basis for this is protection, education and awareness.

