1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00411/2019

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On May 28, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter referred to as the claimant),
through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed).

SECOND: In accordance with the provisions of article 65 of Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(LOPDGDD hereinafter), the claim was transferred to the person in charge or to the
Data Protection Delegate that you may have appointed, requiring you to
to send the requested information and documentation to this Agency. East
request for information was made within the framework of the file with code of
reference E/05812/2019.

THIRD: Once the period of one month that was given to the claimed person for
inform the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, as indicated in the
second background, without the respondent providing the pertinent response, the
The claim was admitted for processing on September 18, 2019.

FOURTH: In relation to the investigation actions referenced with the
code E/08849/2019, a new request for information was sent to the respondent,
alluding to the claim outlined in the first antecedent, so that, within the term of
ten working days, submit to this Agency the information and documentation that
it was pointed out in it. The request, which was made in accordance with the regulations
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected by the
responsible on October 16, 2019, as stated in the certificate of
Mail that works in the file.
FIFTH: On November 29, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged infringement
of Article 58.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

SIXTH: The aforementioned initial agreement was collected by the person in charge dated
date December 10, 2019 as stated in the Post Office certificate that works in
The file.
After the period of ten business days granted in the initial agreement for the
presentation of arguments, the respondent has not presented arguments.

SEVENTH: On February 19, 2020, a proposal for
resolution, proposing that the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is imposed on B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of Article 58.1 of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

Likewise, the procedure was revealed so that within a period of ten days
could allege whatever he considered in his defense and present the documents and
information that it considers pertinent, in accordance with article 89.2 of the
LPACAP.

EIGHTH: The motion for a resolution, which was registered as output on the 19th of
February 2020 with registration number 015797/2020, was collected by the person in charge
on March 12, 2020, as stated in the Post Office certificate that works in
The file.

After the period of ten business days granted in the resolution proposal for
the presentation of arguments, the respondent has not presented arguments.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The information requirements indicated in the second background
and fourth, they were notified in accordance with the provisions of article 42 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: The respondent has not responded to the information requirements
carried out by the Agency within the periods granted for it, namely:

1st. The request made within the framework of the file with reference code
E/05812/2019, in which the deadline to respond was one month.

2nd. The request made within the framework of the investigative actions
referenced with code E/08849/2019, in which the deadline to respond was
ten business days.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

THIRD: The notification of the agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning party was collected by the person in charge on December 10, 2019. No
arguments were presented to the initiation agreement.

FOURTH: The notification of the proposed resolution was made through
Correos, being collected by the person in charge on March 12, 2020.
They presented arguments to the proposed resolution.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for not having tried to
the Spanish Data Protection Agency the information it requested. With the
indicated conduct of the defendant, the power of investigation that article 58.1 of the
RGPD confers on the control authorities, in this case, the AEPD, has been seen
hampered.

Therefore, the proven facts are deemed to constitute an infraction,
attributable to the claimed, for violation of article 58.1 of the RGPD, which provides that
Each control authority will have, among its investigative powers:

“a) order the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the
representative of the person in charge or the person in charge, who facilitate any
information required for the performance of its functions; b) carry out
investigations in the form of data protection audits; c) carry out
a review of the certifications issued under article 42, paragraph
7; d) notify the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment of the alleged
violations of this Regulation; e) obtain from the controller and the
in charge of the treatment access to all personal data and to all the
information necessary for the exercise of its functions; f) gain access to
all premises of the controller and processor, including
any equipment and means of data processing, in accordance with the
Procedural law of the Union or of the Member States.”

This infringement is typified in article 83.5.e) of the RGPD, which considers as

such: “failure to provide access in breach of article 58, section 1”.

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

In the same article it is established that this infraction can be sanctioned
with a maximum fine of twenty million euros (€20,000,000) or, in the case of
a company, of an amount equivalent to four percent (4%) as a maximum of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following conduct:

“ñ) Not facilitating the access of the personnel of the data protection authority
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority for the
exercise of its investigative powers.

o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the
competent data protection authority.”

IV

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

v

Finally, it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed according to the criteria
established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD.

In the initial evaluation it is appreciated that no

aggravating, and the following facts have been considered as mitigating factors:

- Art. 83.2 a) RGPD: the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement,
taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the operation of
treatment in question, as well as the number of interested parties affected and the
level of damages suffered. It has been taken into account that the
claimed is an individual.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article 58.1
of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

