Case number: NAIH / 2019/5062/5
dr. For Ákos Ányos Hadházy
parliamentarian
Budapest
Széchenyi quay 19.
1358
Dear Sir,
As reported by the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: the Authority)
previously informed, a notification was received by the Authority in which the petitioner dr. Ákos Hadházy
Ányos Member of Parliament (1358 Budapest, Széchenyi Quay 19; e-mail:
hadhazy.akos@parlament.hu; hereinafter referred to as the "Data Controller") to the European Public Prosecutor's Office
objected to the processing of his data relating to the collection of signatures
The Authority was thanked for receiving NAIH / 2019/5062/2. related to case number issues
information.
(A) At the request of the Authority, you have informed the Authority of:
1. The Data Controller shall provide the full names, addresses and, optionally, the data subjects in connection with the collection of signatures
manages your email address and phone number.
2. The full names, addresses, e-mail addresses and contact details of the data subject
telephone number on the basis of consent.
The data provided in the event that the data subject provided e-mail and / or telephone
contact details until the data subject's consent is withdrawn, if not
provided data for contact purposes, data after completion of collection (30 May 2019) 3
treats for months.
3. The Data Controller shall transfer the personal data provided by the data subjects to the European Public Prosecutor's Office
telephone and / or e-mail availability
intended to use the authorization for political contacts.
The data may be disclosed to the employees or to the natural and legal persons to whom it relates
Data controller for political communication or IT tasks in the form of a contract
trustee.
Storage of data in physical form (paper, handwriting) before deletion, 24-hour security service,
under the supervision of a fire alarm system and a camera system in a multiple enclosure.
After processing, the data is currently stored in a spreadsheet (.csv) format in Mailchimp
the Data Manager also backs up Sync.com in .csv format.
4. Notarization would have taken place when the 1 million signatures were reached. THE
authentication of contact information is personal based on the information provided for contact
during contact with proof of identity. Consent to contact
data from non-taxable stakeholders were randomly checked.
No contract was concluded with a notary, therefore no data processing was carried out by a notary.
5. Stores the address, telephone number, e-mail address and full name of the data subject as "contact details"
the Data Controller.
For the contact, the name and address to provide personal, territorially relevant information
serves as the email address for written documents and messages to the general public at the same time

2

the phone number is for personal, urgent, or near-time events
information and access for citizens without a computer. You do it
stated that they all meet the purpose of data management, communication, and help
compliance with the requirement of accuracy and up-to-dateness, since if one of the data
If it turns out to be unreadable or incorrect, you can request another contact method
correction, or the ability to enter multiple types of contact information for custom modes
allow the controller to adapt to his preferences.
Storing personal information in your Mailchimp system that is treated as "contact information" .csv
format on Sync.com in .csv format. The storage of paper sheets is
24-hour security service, fire alarm system and camera system monitoring until destruction
takes place several times in a closed place.
6. As stated by the Data Controller, you are the only user of the databases
experts with a data processing contract are essential for the maintenance of
staff has access with multi-factor authentication, so access is not currently logged. The
personal data provided by data subjects through encrypted channels for security data transmission
They are transmitted to the Data Controller protected by the SSL web protocol and forwarded to the Data Controller's newsletter or cloud service provider. Special security programs are used and regular security
inspections are carried out. In addition, the Data Controller states that it is a trusted server provider
uses where outbound connections are logged to track any intrusions. THE
they use the latest technology and perform regular backups.
Outside Hungary, only with a secure and adequate level of data protection and certification
GDPR compliant services in the third country with a mechanism (US: EU-US
Privacy Shield, Canada). The use of data overwriting and backup peripherals is severely restricted, as such
protects your data with encryption. Data and media no longer needed are supervised by 2 witnesses
destroy it.
7. When uploading the completed signature collection forms at https://europaiugyeszsegert.hu/feltoltes/
legal basis for the management of a mandatory e-mail address or telephone number - data management
as set out in the prospectus - the consent of the data subject. The purpose of data management is a
contact, including clarification of data resulting from incorrect or illegible uploads; and
requests for rectification. This data is stored by the Data Controller until the consent of the data subject is revoked
handles.
The duration of data processing has been clarified in the data management information: a
For the sake of clarity, all links to the Internet
according to the content of the text in the contact or data management information checkboxos
entering a consent field until the consent for the data provided has been withdrawn
consent to its treatment. These fields have previously pointed to this prospectus and
data processing was allowed until the withdrawal of consent, but more precise and clear
their name has changed for information purposes, which is not the case in the data management information notice
followed immediately.
8. Political parties with the same issue, but as separate data controllers, own, separate
participated in the collection with data management information. Regarding the collection of signatures of the parties, the Data Controller
He has no written contracts and no data controller authority, therefore
cannot provide details.
9. Data collection lasted from 19 July 2018 and from pre-registration to 30 May 2019. The registration and
upload surfaces have been closed.
10. The Data Controller has attached the contracts concluded with the data processors used during the data processing
copies.

3

B) After reviewing what was written in its response letter, the Authority took the following position on the matter
developed by:
I. The Data Controller is entitled "Join the European Public Prosecutor's Office!" initiative called
collected the following personal data of the data subjects in the support sheet: name, address (postcode,
city, address), e-mail contact, phone number, signature.
Name, signature, address, e-mail contact and telephone number according to GDPR definitions
the personal data of the data subject1, any operation performed on the data, such as data
collection, recording and storage is considered as data management2.
Under the provisions of the GDPR, a number of requirements must be met for the lawfulness of data processing.
Of these, the legality of Article 5 (1) (a) and (b) of the GDPR plays a key role,
the principles of fair trial and transparency and purpose. In addition, the
the controller must have a legal basis in accordance with Article 6 (1) of the GDPR
for data management.
Article 9 of the GDPR also provides for the processing of special categories of personal data. These
personal data referring to a political opinion, the processing of which is regulated by the Regulation
prohibits it as a general rule or makes it subject to strict conditions. This special category is personal
data may be processed, inter alia, only with the express consent of the data subject
for one or more specific purposes.
In its reply to the Authority, the Data Controller indicated the consent of the data subjects
as the legal basis for data management, as well as in the Privacy Statement on the back of the sheet
refers to the consent of the parties concerned.
Pursuant to Article 6 (1) (a) of the GDPR, the processing of personal data is lawful if it
the data subject has consented to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes.
Article 4 (11) of the GDPR states that the data subject consents to the will of the data subject
voluntary, specific and well-informed and clear statement by the data subject
by means of a statement or an act which unequivocally expresses its confirmation
for the processing of personal data concerning him.
The data collection page of the sheet contains the following information: “Data Management Information -
I accept the prospectus with my signature ”, while the text of the Privacy Notice on the back of the sheet
“The legal basis for data processing is clear after reading this information
consent. ".
In order for the controller to be able to legitimately invoke the legal basis of the consent, the consent
all its conceptual elements must meet the requirements that apply to it.
The Working Party on Data Protection set up under Article 29 of the Data Protection Directive
Guideline WP259 also explains whether the statement or confirmation
an unequivocally expressive act is a precondition for regular consent. Expressed to the person concerned
GDPR Article 4 (1): "personal data" shall mean any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person ("data subject"); identifiable
a natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier such as name, number, location data, online identifier
or one or more factors relating to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of the natural person
identifiable by.
2
Article 4 (2) of the GDPR: "data processing" means any operation, whether automated or non-automated, on personal data or files
or a set of operations, such as collecting, recording, organizing, sorting, storing, transforming or altering, querying, accessing, using,
by transmission, distribution or otherwise making available, coordination or interconnection, restriction, deletion or
destruction. "
Article 4 (7) of the GDPR: “controller” means any natural or legal person, public authority, agency or any other body which
determine the purposes and means of data processing, either individually or in association with others; if the purposes and means of the processing are governed by Union or Member State law
the controller or the specific criteria for the designation of the controller may be determined by Union or Member State law. "
1

4

you must make a statement of consent. Belief that the consent is explicit
an obvious way would be to explicitly confirm the consent in a written statement. To
it is therefore necessary for the data subject to be able to express his or her will in concrete terms
information related to obtaining consent for data management activities
clearly separate it from information on other issues.
Recital 42 of the GDPR also states that it is pre-formulated for the controller
provide a statement of consent in a comprehensible and easily accessible form
and its language should be clear and unambiguous and not
may contain unfair terms.
In the Authority's view, it is only that the data subject provides the requested form on the signature collection form
shall not be considered as a specific, unambiguous expression of the will of the data subject and
The “acceptance” of a privacy statement with a signature is not considered personal data either
unequivocal expression of the consent to the use of
The data subject does not have to "accept" the prospectus, but needs to process the data on the basis of the information
consent to the processing. THE
the consent is therefore closely linked to the information, as the data subject is the relevant information
in his possession, he may decide whether to give his consent to the personal data concerning him
to treat. In relation to the information, the data subject may be expected to make a statement
that it has become acquainted with its contents, has taken note of its contents, and its role is therefore limited to
that he can prove that the consent is informed.
Consent by giving it as explained above is not
clear and concrete expression of the will of the data subjects, data processing is not considered
without a valid legal basis, the Data Controller shall handle the personal data of the data subjects
in breach of Article 6 of the GDPR. Because this information is personal information is special
categories and may be dealt with, inter alia, in the case of
to the controller, with the express consent of the data subject, the processing infringes Article 9 of the GDPR.
Article 1 (1).
II. Article 5 (1) (b) of the GDPR provides for the principle of purposeful data processing, according to which
personal data may only be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and used for such purposes
they may not be treated in a way incompatible with those purposes.
II.1. According to the Privacy Policy of the sheet, the purpose of data processing is the name, address and signature
the collection of supporting signatures and their joint voters
submission to the notary. If contact information (phone number,
e-mail address) has also been provided, according to the Privacy Notice, all data - the telephone number
and / or e-mail address, the purpose of the name, address and signature is to enable the controller to
in connection with the activities of members of parliament
contact information.
In its reply to the Authority, the Data Controller stated in this regard that
collected the data of the data subjects in order to facilitate the accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office and with the notary
authentication would have taken place when the 1 million signatures were reached.
Regarding the purpose of the data processing, he also stated that the data of the data subjects,
if authorized by providing telephone and / or e-mail contact details,
used for political communication.
In the course of the investigation, the Authority found that the data collection side of the sheet was for each
there was no specific indication or call for the personal data to be collected
the provision of data is mandatory for the validity of the initiative's support, or the provision of information

5

optional and for collection for other data management purposes other than in support of the initiative - present
in this case for contact purposes.
Provide telephone and / or e-mail contact details on the signature collection form, taking into account that the
there is no specific notice that the provision of this information is not mandatory - it is not considered
on the one hand, confirmation of consent to the use of personal data
unequivocally expressive act and, on the other hand, cannot be
consent to the processing of personal data for contact purposes.
Recital 32 of the GDPR states that where data processing serves several purposes at the same time,
then the consent must be given separately for all data processing purposes. If it is
the controller does not attempt to request consent for each purpose separately, a
freedom of choice.
In the Authority's view, the lawfulness of the processing of the personal data of the data subjects at that time
can be established if the data subject is used for all data processing purposes
may have contributed separately to its treatment.
II.2. During the period of signature collection, it was possible to complete the completed signature collection forms a
Also for uploading via https://europaiugyeszseget.hu/feltoltes/. During charging, respectively
the following personal data was required for its successful completion: name
(surname and first name), e-mail address, county, town, telephone, and were required
Adoption of data management information. Data management is included in the Data Management Information
The aim is to contact and liaise with supporters of the European Public Prosecutor 's Office
stakeholders
the
European
Prosecution
supportive
activities
about events
notifications of movements and signatures.
In the response of the Data Controller to the Authority, the data subjects are the legal basis for the data processing
and the purpose of the data processing is to keep in touch and to ensure that the
You can also use the contact information provided to make it incorrect or unreadable
request clarification and correction of the data resulting from the uploads.
It can therefore be concluded that in order to handle the personal data provided when uploading the forms online, the
their consent has been given by those concerned as indicated above, subject to mandatory completion
fields, enter your personal information and the checkbox next to the Privacy Notice
marked. It was therefore not possible to fill in the sheet as long as the requested personal data a
the uploader did not enter or checkbox.
According to Article 4 (11) of the GDPR, one of the most important elements of a valid consent is
volunteering.
In this respect, recital (42) of the GDPR states that consent is given
shall not be considered voluntary if the person concerned does not have a real or free choice,
and shall not be able to refuse or withdraw consent without prejudice. THE
Furthermore, as stated in recital (43), the consent cannot be considered voluntary if
it does not allow separate contributions to different data management operations, although that is the case
appropriate in this case.
The Data Protection Working Party in its Guidance on Consent WP259 on a voluntary basis
with regard to a given contribution, found that the “free” element presupposes that the
those concerned have a real choice and right of disposal. As a general rule, the GDPR
provides that if the data subject does not have a real choice, he is forced to give consent
you feel or you will have negative consequences if you do not give your consent, then your consent
not valid.
The Authority found that the provision of data during the online upload of the forms could not be considered
at the same time, the consent of the data subject to the processing of his or her data for the purposes of contact

6

without providing the data, ie in case of refusal of consent
there was an opportunity for the data subject to complete the signature collection form through the site.
The lawfulness of data processing requires a separate, valid legal basis for all independent purposes
both to support the initiative and to liaise
for data processing purposes. Stakeholders for all data processing purposes
As explained above, the main conceptual elements
which are necessary for the consent, ie the legal basis for the processing, to be valid
be. There is a lack of voluntary, specific, well - informed and
a clear statement by which you consent to the processing of your personal data.
In the Authority's view, therefore, the Data Controller treats the data subjects without a valid legal basis
personal data, both during the data collection in the signature collection form and in the
data collection for contact purposes, in breach of Article 6 of the GDPR. Because
these data fall into special categories of personal data and their processing
among other things, the controller has the option if the data subject has expressly requested to do so
data processing also infringes Article 9 (1) of the GDPR.
III. An important conceptual element of a valid consent is that the request for consent is properly communicated
prevent it. Adequate prior information is needed to keep those concerned informed
be specific to what they agree to know the details of the data management and
exercise their right to withdraw their consent. Failing this, the consent
that is, the legal basis for data processing will be invalid.
Article 5 (1) (a) and (b) of the GDPR and, in this context, Article 39
Recital 1 also states that it should be transparent to natural persons
be how their personal data about them is collected, used, in that
considered or otherwise treated, and in the context of being personal
the extent to which data is and will be handled. The principle of transparency applies to those concerned
also for the purposes of data processing. The specific purposes of personal data processing are explicit
and lawful, as well as the collection of personal data
must be specified at the time of
Article 13 of the GDPR defines what information is available to data subjects
shall be informed at the time the data are obtained.
III.1. Information on the conditions of data management in the signature collection form
In its investigation, the Authority found that the data processing of the signature collection form
As explained above, the Data Controller did not inform the data subjects in the prospectus
the legal basis and purpose of the processing.
As regards the identification of the recipients of personal data, the Authority has established that
In the data management prospectus, the data subjects were informed that the Data Controller is the signature collector
will be submitted to a notary public no later than 31 May 2019, so that the collected supporting signatures
regardless of the number. At the request of the Authority, on the other hand, the Data Controller stated that a
notarization would have taken place when the 1 million signatures were reached, and given that
the required number of supporting signatures was not collected and no contract was concluded
notary, so there was no data processing by a notary. In the Authority 's view,
information on the recipients would therefore have been complete if the parties had been informed
that the sheets and the personal data contained therein were notarized
will be handed over only if the appropriate number of signatures is collected, or
they would have been informed of what would have happened after the submission to the notary
sheets and thus the personal data on it. In the prospectus therefore
nor was there any information on what would happen to the arches if a sufficient number of signatures were collected
and all personal data contained therein.

7

In its reply to the Authority, the Data Controller provided information on the data used
data processors, however, in the Data Protection Bulletin attached to the sheet, the data processors
those concerned were not informed of its use. Stakeholders were also not informed that
whether or not the activists commissioned by the Data Controller qualify as data processors. It is not clear
and who is to be understood as the staff of the Data Controller or the ‘staff’ do not know whether the
What is the legal relationship of the data controller with these persons, who perform the tasks of data management
during.
Regarding the duration of the storage of personal data collected in support of the initiative,
The privacy statement contained only the information that the signature collection forms were notarized
after submitting the data to the notary for consideration of the petition initiative
must be deleted after. However, there was no information as to where the arches were
however, they will not be filed with the notary when they are canceled.
The Authority has established that, on the basis of the above, the Data Controller -
in the Data Management Information Sheet of the Signature Collection Form - did not provide information to the data subject
all relevant circumstances of the data processing, in breach of Article 13 of the GDPR
included.
III.2. Information on how to handle the information you provide when uploading forms online
The legal basis and purpose of the processing of personal data to be provided during the online upload
In relation to this information, the Authority noted that it had provided the Data Management Authority
as stated in the Privacy Policy linked on the Upload page
the legal basis is the consent - they contradict the actual content of the Data Management Information, a
The legal basis of the data processing has not been indicated in the prospectus, it is only informed by the
stakeholders what they consider to be the purpose of the data processing.
The Authority shall provide information on the duration of the processing during the investigation
found that, as stated in the prospectus, it was provided when uploading the forms online
personal data will be processed until the end of the signature collection operation, but with a specific date for this
was not indicated, so it is not clear to those concerned that their data will be
How long the data controller will handle it.
According to the prospectus, further provided on the form with the Data Controller's political activity
the newsletter has been subscribed, the data will be processed until the consent is withdrawn. THE
Authority in the course of the investigation found that the online upload must be a mandatory form
there was no possibility to subscribe to the newsletter, therefore uploading the forms online
at the same time it could mean subscribing to the newsletter, for which purpose the data subjects
they could not give their consent separately.
During the investigation, the Authority found that https://europaiugyeszseget.hu/adatkezelesi-tajekoztato/
available in the Data Management Information on the website several times - on July 16, 2019
and 31 August 2019, of which the amendment of 16 July 2019 was amended by
The data controller also provided information in his reply to the Authority. However, these changes
on the one hand, they took place after the examined data management period, and on the other hand, no changes with such content were made
which would have changed the Authority’s findings.
The Data Controller did not provide clear, adequate information to the data subjects during the period under review
and real information provided by the personal information provided when uploading the forms through the website
all relevant circumstances of the processing of personal data, thereby infringing Article 5 (1) of the GDPR.
Article 5 (2) and Article 13 (1) to (2).

8

ARC. Validity of the legal basis for data processing
According to the definition in Article 4 (11) of the GDPR, the data subject's consent is the data subject
voluntary, specific and well-informed and unambiguous declaration of will,
by which the statement concerned or the act of confirmation is unequivocally expressed,
to give his or her consent to the processing of personal data concerning him or her. So consent then
considered as a valid legal basis for data processing if all the conditions are met.
One of the most important components of the validity of the consent is the voluntary nature of the will of the data subject,
freedom from outside influence, which is achieved when there is a real choice
available to the person concerned. Where the consequences of consent undermine an individual’s election
consent is not considered voluntary and is therefore a valid contribution.
A specific, clear, unequivocal statement or affirmation of the will of the data subject
the requirement to disclose by act means, on the one hand, that consent
on the other hand, clear, explicit consent is also a goal
also consent: can be considered as consent for a specific, specific data processing purpose.
As a general rule, the data may not be used for other data management purposes.
All conceptual elements of consent can be fully valid if the consent is requested
preceded by appropriate information. The right information is through which stakeholders are involved
they are familiar with the processing of their personal data and are able to do so through the information
the right to self-determination of information is enforceable: the processing of data may be lawful under the circumstances
they are fully known to those concerned. The requirement to inform the data subject in advance a
Article 13 of the GDPR details this.
In the opinion of the Authority, the above I., II. and III. as a result of the above
its contribution to data management lacks the most important conceptual elements that
necessary to provide the legal basis for the processing, in this case consent
be valid. The Data Controller handles the personal data of the data subjects without a valid legal basis,
in breach of Article 6 of the GDPR.
V. Pursuant to Article 28 (1) of the GDPR, if the processing is carried out by someone else on behalf of the controller, the
the data controller may only use data processors who have appropriate guarantees
ensure that the processing complies with the requirements of this Regulation and the rights of data subjects
to implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure the protection of
According to the statement of the Data Controller, the personal data collected by him / her is tabulated after processing
(.csv) format in Mailchimp and also in tabular (.csv) format
they are backed up on Sync.com. He also submitted that the databases only have it
experts with a data-processing contract who are essential for the use or maintenance of the data,
or a limited number of employees with multi-factor authentication, but access is currently not available
logged. The personal information provided by those involved is encrypted through secure channels
protected by the SSL web protocol for data transmission to the Data Controller and transmitted to the
newsletter and cloud providers.
The Privacy Statement accompanying the signature collection form did not mention data processors
only in the Data Management Information available at https://europaiugyeszseget.hu
the companies used by the Data Controller as data processors are listed.
According to the prospectus, in addition to the data processors listed separately, the Data Controller shall provide the data of the data subjects
may be accessed by its members and staff, but a written document to that effect
provided for the tasks, activities, responsibilities to be performed by the activists, did not provide
enter the Data Manager.

9

By providing the Data Management web hosting service, DotRoll Kft. (Registered office: 1148 Budapest,
Fogarasi út 3-5.), Which according to the Data Management Information available on the website a
use an additional data processor to perform administrator and system development tasks
MICROWARE HUNGARY Kft. (registered office: 1148 Budapest, Fogarasi út 3-5.). The Data Controller a
Undated Data Processors concluded with DotRoll Kft
A copy of the agreement. According to the agreement, the task of DotRoll Kft. Is the Data Controller
the provision of the technical infrastructure, website storage, display, email service and their weekly backup for data management.
By providing Internet marketing services, The Rocket Science Group LLC (the “
Mailchimp) and attached the Mailchimp to its reply to the Authority.
a copy of the non-signed data management appendix forming part of this Agreement.
According to the provisions of the Mailchimp e-mail service provider, automation and sales platform,
and other related services.
According to the Data Management Information, the Data Controller also uses a
Sync.com Inc. ("Sync.com"). Attached by the Data Controller between the two -
Sync.com dated June 27, 2019 - A copy of the GDPR Data Management Appendix
Inc.'s processing of personal information and other information generated solely upon the establishment of an account
contact information and personal and encrypted information provided during the service
itself. When transferring personal data and other data transferred by the Data Controller is SSL / TLS
encrypted using. Sync.com Inc. does not handle file data, file metadata,
encryption keys or passwords unless instructed to do so by the Data Controller. The Data Controller is encrypted
your data always uses end-to-end encryption and is stored with Sync.com Inc.
do not access them in a readable format or share them with third parties.
The Authority reviewed the website https://europaiugyeszseget.hu/ and found that the scanned and
signed signature collection forms could be uploaded through the interface available on the website. THE
website has SSL certification, ie the data was sent through an encrypted channel to
For data controller. Mailchimp provides 2-factor authentication based on the descriptions on the official website a
users and uses several other security procedures (eg protection against brute force). THE
Sync.com also uses 2-factor authentication according to its official website as well
protects the data of users using the cloud service with endpoint encryption.
Regarding the data processors registered abroad used by the Data Controller a
Authority found that provided by these foreign companies (Mailchimp, Sync.com)
services - the various security / encryption procedures on their website
based on a detailed description - no data security vulnerability.
However, the Authority notes that it is provided by companies established in a third country
services (including the collection, storage, organization,
and use), in particular for political opinion
in connection with the processing of personal data - poses a higher data protection risk, therefore the
It is considered good practice by the Authority if the data processing is primarily similar
EU companies providing services, thereby reducing data protection
risks.
Article 5 (2) of the GDPR provides for the principle of accountability, according to which
The data controller is responsible for ensuring that personal data is processed in accordance with the data management principles
happen and you can prove it. An essential requirement is to allow limited access
in the case of records, to verify that only personal data are subject to authorization
authorized person, only in connection with the relevant administration.
By not logging access to the databases, the Data Controller violated
Article 5 (2) of the GDPR, as it cannot adequately prove that
whether and when the data was actually accessed, whether unauthorized access occurred.

10

In the course of his data processing, he also infringed Article 13 of the GDPR, as he did
about the data processors used during the signature collection in the Privacy Statement of the sheets
did not provide information.
With regard to the collection of signatures by activists, the Authority also draws attention to the
that the data controller has issued the signature collection form for the purpose of collecting signatures
in the case of a contract, it shall be deemed to be a data processor acting on the instructions of the controller. If it is
the data processor shall act differently from the instructions of the data controller and shall determine the purposes of the data processing itself
and its assets shall be deemed to be a controller for the purposes of this data processing under the GDPR,
is responsible for data processing operations in this capacity.
(C) In view of the above, the Authority is required to comply with Article 58 (2) (g) of the GDPR and the Infotv.
Pursuant to Section 56 (1) 3
calls for
the Data Controller to immediately delete the "Join the European Public Prosecutor's Office!"
between 19 July 2018 and 30 May 2019 in the context of the
all personal data collected from data subjects, as their collection is valid without a legal basis
happened.
The Authority informs that Infotv. Pursuant to Section 56 (2) 4 to the Data Controller
it shall immediately take the necessary measures and shall comply with the request
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the request
Authority. The Authority will ask you to attach the cancellation documents to your reply.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 58 (1), if, on the basis of the summons, to remedy the violation of the law, or a
the imminent threat of an infringement has not been eliminated, the Authority shall set a time limit for notification
decide on the necessary additional measures within thirty days of the expiry of the
Budapest, October 11, 2019
Best regards:
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

Infotv. § 56. (1) “If the Authority, by processing personal data or accessing data of public interest or public data in the public interest,
the existence of an infringement or imminent threat of an infringement relating to the exercise of
calls for remedial action and the elimination of its imminent danger. ".
4 Infotv. § 56. (2) “In the event of his or her consent, the data controller shall immediately take the necessary steps indicated in the notice pursuant to paragraph (1).
within 30 days of receipt of the request.
inform the Authority in writing. "
3

