1/13

936-031219

 Procedure No.: PS/00379/2019

RESOLUTION R/00154/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00379/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to A.A.A., given the complaint filed by CUERPO
NATIONAL POLICE BRIGADE OF JUDICIAL POLICE, UDEV GROUP,
POLICE STATION OF *** LOCATION.1, and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On February 24, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against A.A.A. (onwards,
the claimed), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00379/2019

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On 03/19/2019 there is an entry from the POLICE BRIGADE
JUDICIAL, UDEV GROUP, POLICE STATION OF ***LOCALITY.1, official letter No. ***OFFICIAL.1,
extension of the report made at the Police Station against D. A.A.A. for an alleged crime
of fraud and to which two hundred and ninety-five photographs of
contracts of companies, printed type alabaran-contract of other mercantile,
forms contract type of the company Grupo Pitágoras whose CIF coincides with the
DNI number of the investigated, etc.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

The copy of the photographs of the contracts has been made available to the Court of
Instruction number 1 of ***LOCATION.1

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 02/25/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and provide information to this Agency indicating the legitimate cause of the
data processing that has been carried out and what purpose or purpose these had
processing, as well as the origin of the personal data processed and the measures
taken to prevent the commission of an infringement of the data protection regulations
data.

On 06/17/2019 it was transferred to both DISTRIHOGAR 2013 S.L. and to the GROUP
EDITORIAL COMFORT what was stated by the complainant, so that within a period of
month from the reception of said writings, whether or not they confirm the alleged extremes
by the defendant, writings that were reiterated on 07/02/2019.

On 05/22/2019, the respondent submitted a written response to the request sent by
the AEPD stating that there is no evidence of a past or present relationship with the companies

Grupo Edilie, Signo Editores, Grupo Zafiro and Agrupación y Salud RYC.

Second, that the documentation that it does recognize was archived by
having terminated the business relationship with the companies Distrihogar and Grupo Confort
Editorial and was transported in his vehicle to proceed with its destruction,
in accordance with article 32.1 of the RGPD.

That personal data is processed with the legitimacy of the execution of
a contract and failing that, the express and unequivocal consent of the
interested. Said information is legitimized in the treatment of “Clients and
providers”.

That between the data controller and the owner of the personal data
a purchase-sale contract is established, prior telephone contact with the interested party
and the contract is formalized and signed at the headquarters of the person in charge of the
treatment or in the client's office/home. Once the relationship ends
Data is destroyed guaranteeing information security.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

That in terms of purpose, personal data is processed for the management
of orders and sale of products on credit at home and for accounting, tax management
and administration of the entity itself.

That in relation to the origin of the data, these are obtained from accessible sources
to the public (Infobel telephone directory) and to the interested party.

That in terms of the security measures adopted, the data controller
guarantees that safeguard, technical and organizational measures have been taken to
guarantee proper use and treatment of personal data.

That the data controller guarantees that only he has access to and processes the data
of a personal nature. The places where the information systems are located are not
of access to the public and does not have contracted personnel, given that their professional relationship
It's like freelancer-commercial.

That the data controller has implemented measures to guarantee the
confidentiality and availability of automated information, as well as the
regular backups on external media located in a place
other than computer equipment.

That the inputs and outputs of devices are made taking the measurements of
necessary security to prevent access by unauthorized third parties with
unlocking mechanisms by means of an access code. To prevent recovery
improper use of the data, the data controller has established mechanisms that
guarantee confidential destruction.

On 09/20/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit the claim for processing
filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

II

The reported facts are specified in the processing of personal data
without consent; Specifically, the aforementioned data have allegedly been used
to defraud their victims and attract potential customers.

Said treatment could constitute a violation of article 6, Lawfulness

of the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

(…)”

Article 4 of the GDPR, Definitions, in section 11, states that:

“11) «consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through
a statement or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that
concern him”.

Also article 6, Treatment based on the consent of the affected party,
of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), indicates
that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

"1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, consent of the affected party is understood to be any manifestation of will
free, specific, informed and unequivocal by which he accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern.

2. When the data processing is intended to be based on consent
of the affected party for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state
specific and unequivocal that said consent is granted for all of them.

3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the
processing of personal data for purposes unrelated to the
maintenance, development or control of the contractual relationship”.

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, “with administrative fines of
€20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount
at a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates for prescription purposes:

“Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

b) The treatment of personal personal data without the concurrence of any of the
the conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

III

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that
the claimed person violated article 6 of the RGPD, since the personal data
contained in the copies of the contracts and intervened forms are used without
consent of their owners, presumably to defraud their victims and the
acquisition of potential customers.

The Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in
similar assumptions has considered that when the owner of the data denies the
contracting, the burden of proof corresponds to the person who affirms its existence, owing
the data controller of third parties to collect and keep the
documentation necessary to prove the consent of the holder. Thus, the SAN of
05/31/2006 (Rec. 539/2004), Fourth Law Basis.

It should be noted that respect for the principle of legality of the data requires that
accredited evidence that the owner of the data consented to the processing of the data of
personal character and display a reasonable diligence essential to prove
that end. Failure to act in this way would result in emptying the content of the principle of
legality.

IV

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed,
observe the provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which
point out:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.

In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its

Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

data.

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to
impose in the present case for the infringement typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD of
which the defendant is held responsible, in an initial assessment, are estimated
concurrent the following factors:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

The merely local scope of the treatment carried out by the claimed party.

Numerous people have been affected by the offending conduct.

The damage caused because the sales always had as recipients a
determined vector of the population, elderly or elderly people, whose ability to
dense is less.

Although there is no evidence that the defendant had acted

intentionally, the conduct observed is deeply negligent.

The respondent is a natural person.

Therefore, as stated,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against D.A.A.A., with NIF
***NIF.1, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with
to the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD and classified as a very
serious in article 72.1.a) of the aforementioned Law.

SECOND: APPOINT B.B.B. and, as Secretary to C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

THIRD: INCORPORATE in the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes,
the claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection during the
research phase.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
of October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations,
The sanction that could correspond would be 6,000 euros, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to D. A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1,
granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the
pleadings and submit any evidence you deem appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in the
Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event of
that the sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within
of the term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at 4,800 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 4,800 euros and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established at 3,600 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above (4,800 or 3,600 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
the date of the start-up agreement or, where applicable, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

Sea Spain Marti

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On March 3, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 3600 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00379/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

