1/26

 Procedure No.: PS/00462/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Through the “Internal Market Information System” (hereinafter
IMI), regulated by Regulation (EU) No: 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of October 25, 2012, (IMI Regulation), whose objective is to favor the
cross-border administrative cooperation, mutual assistance between States
members and the exchange of information, was received in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection (AEPD), on 09/11/18, a claim made by a
interested before the Data Protection and Freedom of Information Commissioner of
Berlin-Hamburg, (hereinafter SA Berlin).

The transfer of this claim to the AEPD is carried out in accordance with the
established in article 56 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and
of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of
these Data (GDPR); taking into account its cross-border nature, this Agency is
competent to act as the main supervisory authority.

The aforementioned claim is made against the website ***URL.1 for lack of privacy policy.
privacy and cookie policy. In addition, the claimant also denounces that “the
entity refuses to issue an invoice unless it provides an identification number
fiscal".

The letter stated the following:

"Ladies and Gentlemen

I hereby wish to file a complaint with the following company:
***URL.1.
Lack of data protection information or cookie warnings.
Also, the company refuses to issue an invoice after my purchase from

unless you give them a tax identification number.

I suspect that invoices are issued only on demand and that the company is

trying to evade taxes.
With our best wishes'

The claimant does not provide any additional documentation or evidence of the facts
denounced.

The Berlin control authority identifies the entity as responsible
FURNISHICON S.L.U. headquartered in Spain, and points out that the supplier
FURNISHCONCEPT S.L.U. web pages also depend on ***URL.2 and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/26

***URL.3 .

The data processing that is carried out affects interested parties in various
Member states. According to the information included in the IMI System,
In accordance with the provisions of article 56 of the RGPD, they have declared
concerned in this proceeding the supervisory authorities of the Rhineland
North-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate, Lower Saxony, Saarland, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern
Occidental, France, Norway and Italy.

SECOND: In view of the exposed facts, the Subdirectorate General of Inspection
of Data proceeded to carry out actions for its clarification in the file
E/1458/2019, under the investigative powers granted to the authorities
of control in article 57.1 of the RGPD. Thus, on 08/04/19, the
web pages belonging to FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L. (CIF: B67094375), in the
which contains the privacy policy accessible from various links. I also know
check that the reported websites have the option to collect personal data
to open an account and make purchases online. The report of previous actions of
inspection is issued on 04/09/2019.

Regarding the Privacy Policy, the following facts are verified:

The privacy policy of the website in Spanish, ***URL.2, is accessed
-
from the links: “Terms and Conditions”; “Privacy and Cookies Policy” and “In-
Legal Training”, located at the bottom of the page.

The privacy policy of the website in German, ***URL.1, is accessed
-
from the links: “Geschäftsbedingungen”; “Datenschutzerklärung”; “Versandinformatio-
nen” “Widerrufsrecht” and “Reklamation”, located at the bottom of the page.

To the privacy policy of the website in French, ***URL.3 is accessed
-
from the links: “Terms and conditions”; “Données Protection Policy”; “Droit of
rétractation” and “Mentions légales”, located at the bottom of the page.

The information contained in the page that informs about the "Privacy Policy",
both on the Spanish website, as well as on the German website and on the page
French website, it is the same in any of the three languages. Then it
Transcribe the information in Spanish:

ID.

-
In accordance with the information obligation under article 10 of the Law
34/2002, of July 11, on the Services of the Information Society and Commerce
Electronic Service, the information of the operator that appears below corresponds to the
home page serca.es
Company name: FURNISHYOURSPACE SL
Location: ***ADDRESS.1
Phone: ***PHONE.1
Email: ***EMAIL.1
CIF: B67094375
-
In accordance with REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the

DATA PROTECTION POLICY

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/26

Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of people with respect to
processing of personal data and the free movement of such data and its regulations
application, we inform you that the information you provided, the data for the
order processing, as well as for the information requested about our products.
products and services, are used to respond to and process your comments and suggestions.
hello
We collect information from you when you register on our website or place an order.
do of our products or services. If you voluntarily participate in surveys of
customers, provides feedback and participates in bids, information is collected
about the client.
Website usage information is stored using cookies.
We store your IP address to diagnose problems on our server and to administer
nister the website. An IP address is a number assigned to your computer when
uses the Internet. This is also used to recognize you during a specific visit to the
website.
In order for the purchase to be carried out, the following information may be requested:
name, address, email, date of birth, phone number
and payment method.
After completing the contact forms on the website or sending emails
tronics or any other request to pass information to Iconmöbel, the interested party gives
your express consent for the processing of personal data and for the sending of
Advertising messages.
Your data will be treated confidentially by Iconmöbel and will be used only-
mind for the purposes mentioned above. These will not be disclosed to third parties.
without the prior express consent of the client. The exception is the carrier,
who accepts the request. In this case, only the carrier you need will receive it, to
that he can process the shipping logistics of the orders placed. Said data
are only necessary for the treatment (name, delivery address and telephone number).
phone to contact). Iconic furniture, in turn, forces companies to comply
comply with the requirements of EU Regulation 2016/679.
Iconmöbel undertakes to maintain professional secrecy and take all measures
technical and organizational measures necessary to guarantee the information in accordance with
the requirements of the aforementioned Regulation.
Your personal data will be stored in our customer registry for two
years. However, you can revoke access to the data for rectification or deletion.
nation at any time, as well as the revocation of data processing or
its transferability.
The buyer authorizes contact by phone or email on the details of the
client who has provided Iconmöbel as a source of information about the organization
den executed by him.
The user is solely responsible for the accuracy and correctness of the information provided.
tioned In the case of the provision of false information or third parties without your permission
Express, Iconmöbel reserves the right to destroy the information immediately to
protect the right of the real owner.
Regarding the data, you can log in to your account by email
to exercise their rights. The request must be accompanied by an identity document.
certification so that we can be sure that you are the owner. Then
Your rights:
- Right to access your personal information and to know whether or not we are treating your
personal information.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/26

- Right to request the correction of incorrect information or its elimination if, among
other things, it is no longer needed for its original purpose.
- Right to request restriction of the processing of your data. In this case, these are only
stored for the exercise or defense of claims.
- Right to object to the processing of your data in certain circumstances and in
relation to your personal situation.
- Right to transfer your data.
- Right to revoke consent, without which the revocation affects the legality of the
prior data processing that has been approved.
- Right to file a claim with a control authority. If you think you know
have violated your rights during data processing, you have the right to present
a complaint to the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

THIRD: On 06/07/2019, the AEPD issues a draft decision where
proposes a file of the procedure, considering that, based on the actions of
inspection carried out, the privacy policy in question was adapted to the
provided in the RGPD, for which I consider that article 13 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On 07/02/2019, the Berlin control authority sends a letter in the
which stated that the draft decision was incomplete. In short, he points out that the
privacy policy does not inform about the legal basis of the treatment; I don't know
provides information about the embedding of third-party cookies when using the
web and the user only has the option to accept them (it even seems that
are installed prior to their acceptance) deriving the disabling to the
browser; and finally, that the draft decision makes no reference to the
claim made that the buyer had requested the number of
tax ID to issue an invoice.

FIFTH: On 10/17/2019, the AEPD issues a first revised draft decision
in which the sections of the privacy policy that refer to
the legal basis of the treatment, certain information is provided about the
content that must appear on the simplified invoices, and it is reported that, regarding
to the subject of cookies, information will be required from the complainant and may be sanctioned, in
your case, in accordance with Spanish regulations.

Based on the foregoing, the AEPD considered that article 13 of the
RGPD and proposed the file of the proceedings.

SIXTH: On 11/01/19, the Berlin control authority objects to the
revised draft decision for the following reasons:

 Existence of various infractions related to the information that is
must provide the interested party because, in accordance with the policy
of privacy of the web ***URL.1 valid on 10/29/2019:

o The legal basis of the treatment is not mentioned. This supposes a

infringement of article 13.1.c) of the RGPD.

o The information about cookies is erroneous and incomplete. This would mean
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

5/26

an infringement of article 13.1.a), c), e). f and 2.a) of the RGPD (if the data
have been obtained from the interested party) or from 14.1.a), c), e), f) and 2.a) of the RGPD
(if the data has not been obtained from the interested party).

o A list of third parties uploads content to the website, which is
a communication of the IP address to those third parties. several of these
third parties would use the data for marketing purposes. Some of
these third parties appear to be based outside the Economic Area
European. However, the privacy policy does not mention these
third parties as possible recipients of data communication, but
which indicates that it only communicates data to the transport company.

Nor does it inform that a transfer will take place
international transfer of data or the legal basis for such transfer.

Therefore, there would have been an infringement of article 13.1.a), c), e),
f) and 2.a) of the RGPD (if the data has been obtained from the interested party) or of the
article 14.1.a), c), e), f) and 2.a) of the RGPD (if the data has not been
obtained from the interested party). In addition, there would have been an infringement
of article 26.2 and possibly of article 44.

o The privacy policy is confusing and the language has errors
grammatical and uses terms that do not belong to the German language
common. This supposes a violation of article 12.1 of the RGPD in
relation to articles 13 and 14.

o The privacy policy does not mention the right to object to the
treatment in accordance with article 21.2 of the RGPD (which supposes a
violation of article 21.4) and only refers to the AEPD as
authority to file a claim with (violation of article
13.2.d).

 The only way to reject the installation of cookies is through the
browser settings. Therefore, the consent obtained for
accept cookies and third-party content is invalid, since it has not been
lent freely. Likewise, the consent obtained does not cover the
communication of data to third parties that load content on the web or to
their use for their own purposes. All this leads to a violation of the
article 6 of the RGPD.

 The Berlin control authority does not agree that it is enforceable
the tax identification number for issuing an invoice
simplified. In addition, information about the requirements for
issuance of an invoice is only collected inconsistently in
the Terms and Conditions section of the privacy policy. This
would be a violation of article 6 of the RGPD.

EIGHTH: On 06/03/2020, the AEPD adopts, in accordance with Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/26

such (hereinafter, LOPDGDD or Organic Law), a draft agreement to initiate
Penalty procedure for alleged violation of article 13 of the RGPD.

NINTH: On 06/26/2020, the AEPD issues a second draft decision revised in
in which a synthesis of the project of the initial agreement is shared with the following
contents:

Summary of the complaint

The Spanish authority received a claim against Furnishicom, S.L.U., since in
the website ***URL.1, property of Furnishicom, S.L.U., in its views in different
languages, it does not include the necessary information.

Competition

Article 56, paragraph 1, article 58 paragraphs 2 and 4 and article 60 of the RGPD, and of
in accordance with article 48, section 1, and article 64 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data, the Director of the authority
Spanish authority will have competence to:

ADOPTION OF THIS REVISED DECISION

Investigation of the Spanish control authority

On the website it has been verified that personal data is collected. On the website is-
In Spanish, the Privacy Policies are included, with other contents such as Terms and
Conditions of use, on a page from which it is accessed from different links:
Three in the INFORMATION section and others from the cookie banner.

Something similar happens on the German page, although in this case it is accessed from five
co links:

Conditions

Privacy Policy

Shipment information

Withdrawal

Complain

And from the page in French from another five.

In relation to the information provided to users, information is provided on:

• the identity and contact details of the responsible person

• The purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended and the basis
legal treatment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/26

• The recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data

• the period during which the personal data will be available

• the existence of the right to request access to the data controller.
personal data related to the interested party, its rectification, deletion, limitation of its
treatment, opposition, as well as the right to data portability. and the right
to file a claim with a supervisory authority.

A revised draft decision will be included in the procedure exchange system.
cross-border procedures for preparatory work, which will include infractions
tions of article 13 of the RGPD, the non-inclusion of a legal basis for the treatment,
differences in the coverage of the privacy policy, the information on the de-
right of opposition, the lack of information on the possibility of presenting claims
tions before other control authorities, and the request for a DNI for simplified invoices.
falls.

As for cookies, it is being penalized in accordance with our national legislation.
tional.

Interested supervisory authorities

The following supervisory authorities will be informed of this draft decision:

Italy

 Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
 France

 Lower Saxony
 North Rhine-Westphalia
 Norway
 Rhineland-Palatinate
 Saarland
 Berlin

rule allegedly violated

-

Transparency and information (article 13)

Draft decision on measures to be taken

Regarding the "Privacy Policy" of the website ***URL.2;***URL.1 and ***URL.3 and
In application of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, the following have been detected:
following anomalies:

— Information is provided on the purposes of personal data processing,
but not on the legal basis of the treatment (article 6.1 of the RGPD).

— According to the German Data Protection Authority, the Privacy Policy of the
***URL.1 website contains a lot of grammatical and spelling errors.
It uses terms that do not correspond to the terms used in everyday German language.
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/26

dian and are therefore fully intelligible".

— In the Privacy Policy, it only allows the right of interested parties to oppose
to the processing of data in accordance with article 21.1 of the RGPD but not to the treatment
of personal data for direct marketing purposes, to the right to obtain at any time
any time the processing of personal data.

— In the section “Right to file a claim with a compliance authority,
control” indicates that: “If you believe that your rights have been violated during the treatment,
processing of the data, you have the right to file a claim with the Spanish Agency
Data Protection Law", even if the users are citizens or are
on German or French territory.

In the 'D-INVIOSING' section of the 'C-SHIPMENTS/deliveries' section of the

Privacy Policy states: "Furure Design will generate a simplified invoice
with payments accepted and received as long as the total order does not exceed the
3000 EUR in accordance with current legislation. It will not be possible to process orders
higher than this amount if the DNI or NIF is not notified", but it is not specified that the
communication of personal data (in this case the NIF or CIF) is a legal requirement or
contract, according to article 13.2.e).

These facts could constitute an infraction, for violation of article 13 of the
RGPD, which establishes the information that must be provided to the interested party at the time
to collect your personal data.

It is considered appropriate to impose a sanction of "WARNING", for the violation
of article 13 of the RGPD.

Regarding cookies, it is being penalized -according to Spanish legislation-,
the results will subsequently be communicated to the control authorities of the States.
Member states that have declared their interest in the topics.

Communications

As the main control authority, the AEPD will present this draft decision to
the other interested control authorities to receive their opinions, in accordance with
tion with article 60, paragraph 3, of the RGPD.

Likewise, in accordance with article 64, section 2, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
of December, of Protection of Data of Personal Character, the present project of
decision will be formally communicated to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment.
The adoption of this draft decision will interrupt the prescription of the offence.

In accordance with the provisions of article 64, section 4, of the Organic Law on Pro-
Protection of Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights, the terms established in
said article will be automatically suspended when information must be collected.
information, consultation, request for assistance or mandatory pronouncement of one or more
authorities of another Member State in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD, by the
time between the request and the notification of the pronouncement to the Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/26

Spanish Data Protection.

After analyzing the comments submitted by the control authorities interested in
sadas, the project of decision of agreement of initiation of the sanctioning procedure
will notify the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, complying with all the requirements
sites specified in article 68 of the aforementioned Organic Law.

Finally, in accordance with article 112, section 1, of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
tuber, of Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administration, there is no
right of appeal against this Decision. '

TENTH: On 07/08/2020, the Berlin control authority presents a series of objections
tions to this revised draft decision (A60RD 133963)

1. Third party content and co-responsibility

“As stated in our second relevant and reasoned objection to the project-
revised decision document, we have found that the website icmobel.de, loads content
gives from the following servers on a first load of the home page:

[...]

Obviously, most of them are third parties, therefore, Furnishicon reveals to the me-
us the personal data "IP address" to third parties, many of them located in third-
other countries.

At least some of these third parties, probably the majority, use the personal data.
website visitor data provided by Furnishicon for tracking
and other marketing purposes. With respect to the jurisprudence of the ECJ, at least many
Many of these inclusions of third-party content will result in joint control
between the company that manages the website (Furnishicon) and the third-party provider.

For your review, in Section 6 of the "Google Terms of Service
Analytics" (https://marketingplatform.google.com/about/analytics/terms/us/ in English or
https://marketingplatform.google.com/about/analytics/terms/de/ in German), Google is
reserves the right to use the personal data of website users to
their own ends. The same applies to Yahoo Analytics (Yahoo Web-Analytics, see
https://policies.yahoo.com/xa/en/yahoo/privacy/topics/analytics/in dex.htm in English or
https://policies.yahoo.com/ie/de/yahoo/privacy/topics/webanalytics/index.htm in German
man). Twitter analytics and Twitter Audience are comparable to Facebook's Insights service.
cek (reference to the ECJ, judgment of June 5, 2018 — C-210/16 — Wirtschafts-
Academy Schleswig-Holstein).

Therefore, Furnishicon has also breached the second sentence of Article 26
(2) GDPR, and article 44 GDPR (which will be investigated by the LSA).

From the first access to the website, the principle that must exist before the
data processing (CEPD, Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under the
Regulation 2016/679, considering 90), since "consent" cannot legitimize
sea treatment. In addition, the wording of the "consent" collected later

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/26

current treatment is not covered. Furthermore, as discussed in detail in our se-
second relevant and reasoned objection, the "consent" is invalid, since it is not
fairly and continued use of a website does not constitute consent.
to valid. In fact, such consent would be necessary at least to:

(1) any disclosure of IP address and other personal data to third parties for whom
there should be no guarantee that they will not use the data for their own purposes and

(2) any use of techniques that allow user interaction to be delayed.

This results in a violation of Article 6(1) and Article 5(1),

letter a), of the RGPD. '

two.

Language and structure of the privacy policy

'The first sentence of article 12 (1) of the GDPR requires that you provide any
information referred to in article 13 and article 14 of the RGPD in a con-
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, using clear and simple language.

As the AEPD states, the Privacy Policy is legible. Contains a large quantity
number of grammar and spelling errors, uses terms that do not correspond to
terms used in the GDPR or in German law or in everyday German language
they are not fully intelligible.

In addition, the structure of the Privacy Policy is wrong. For example, under the title
the "cookies", also deals with social networks and the rights of interested parties.
two. Outside of the Privacy Policy section, in the terms and conditions, there are
a section "Identity of the person in charge (contact)", which contains the subsections
"Child Protection Policy" (containing a statement not valid for all
two less users) and "Links to other websites".

Therefore, the first sentence of Article 12(1) of the
GDPR”.

3. Information is missing on the right to obtain treatment under the

Article 21 (2) GDPR.

"As the AEPD states, the Privacy Policy only allows the modification of the right
right of the interested parties to obtain the treatment under Article 21 (1) RGPD (and
this in a hard way). The Privacy Policy does not mention the right of in-
data subjects under article 21 (2) of the RGPD and, therefore, and as is the case
with the information on the right of opposition of article 21 (1) of the RGPD, it is
wrong and misleading.

Therefore, Furnishicon also violated article 21 (4) of the GDPR, which is
likely to prevent data subjects from exercising their treatment rights with
direct marketing purposes."

4. Obligation to provide the tax identification number.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/26

“In its second revised draft decision, the AEPD mentions that Furnishicon
requires the DNI (obviously as a synonym of the tax identification number that Fur-
nishicon requires the plaintiff) even for simplified invoices on which it does not
There is a legal basis for it, as well as what we indicated in our second objective.
relevant and motivated target.

Therefore, Furnishicon also violated article 6 (1) and art. 5 (1) (a) GDPR.'

5. Proposed measures

"The AEPD proposes to issue a warning against Furnishicon. Given that Furnishicon
has not substantially changed his illegal behavior, a warning is not
an acceptable measure.

We suggest that the Spanish Data Protection Agency order the adaptation to the
GDPR. The Privacy Policy on iconmobel.de is explained in the same way
in which it is documented in our relevant and motivated objection, that the AEPD, con-
considers an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD and that, as indicated above,
it also violates other provisions of the GDPR. Even so, when the site is built
web iconmobel.de, the same cookie banner appears, which only allows the use of the
website completely when the user clicks 'I accept' ('Ich
akzeptiere'). The other "More Information" button (in English only) links to the terms and
general conditions, which also face the Privacy Policy, but not
they make the cookie banner disappear. There is no way to refute the configuration of
cookies except through browser settings. The wording of the consent
data collected does not cover the interruption of personal data by integrating
tion of third-party content on the website, and there is no other legal basis. Also,
As discussed in detail above, Furnisicon has violated many more provisions.
GDPR regulations and still hasn't fixed it.

Furthermore, the infringement cannot be considered minor because the illegality of the transfer
of personal data to third parties, especially in third countries, the lack of agreement and
training in accordance with article 26 of the RGPD and the total lack of usefulness of the
Privacy Policy pose a significant threat to the rights of protection
data of the interested parties, affects the very essence of the legal obligations
concerned and indicates a systemic problem (253). The infraction was intentional
(see WP253 III.b)). Also, the specific violation is not fixed after
detected, and has not been corrected to date, and Furnishicon has maintained this situation
even after Furnishicon had realized the illegality of
their actions and the AEPD would have intervened (see WP253 III.c), (f)).

As a result of the objections raised, the AEPD has prepared this project
revised agreement to initiate a sanctioning procedure, in order to submit
subject to the opinion of the other interested control authorities.

ELEVENTH: On July 1, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 6 of the GDPR, Article 21 of the GDPR, Article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/26

TWELFTH: The initiation agreement was electronically notified to the defendant.
This is required by article 14.2 of Law 39/2015 on Common Administrative Procedure
of the Public Administrations (LPACAP) according to which "In any case they will be
obliged to interact through electronic means with the Administrations
Public to carry out any formality of an administrative procedure, to the
least, the following subjects: a) Legal persons”.

Works in the file the Certificate issued by the Notification Service
Electronic and Authorized Electronic Address of the FNMT-RCM, which leaves
proof of sending the start agreement, notification from the AEPD addressed to
FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L., through this medium, being the date of
disposal in the electronic headquarters of the body on 07/02/2021 and the date of rejection
automatic on 07/13/2021.

  Article 43.2. of the LPACAP establishes that when the notification by means
electronic devices is mandatory -as is the case in this case- "it is
shall be understood as rejected when ten calendar days have elapsed since the
disposition of the notice without accessing its content.” (The underlining is from the
AEPD)
       
Add that articles 41.5 and 41.1, third paragraph, of the LPACAP say,
respectively:

      “When the interested party or his representative rejects the notification of an action
administrative, it will be recorded in the file specifying the circumstances of the
notification attempt and the means, considering the procedure completed and following the
process." (The underlining is from the AEPD)
       
      “Regardless of the means used, the notifications will always be valid.
that allow proof of its sending or making available, of the reception or
access by the interested party or their representative, their dates and times, the content
complete, and the reliable identity of the sender and recipient thereof. The
accreditation of the notification made will be incorporated into the file”.

Thus, considering that the notification of the agreement from start to
FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L., was carried out electronically due to legal imperative
(Article 14 LPACAP) and that the notification was rejected after
ten days, as provided in article 43.2 of the aforementioned law, the procedure will be
considered carried out and the procedure continued its course (former article 41.5 LPACAP)

THIRTEENTH: In accordance with article 73.1 of the LPCAP, the term for
formulate allegations to the Home Agreement is ten days computed from the
following the notification.

Article 64.2. LPACAP, indicates that the defendant will be informed of the right to
formulate allegations, the "right to be heard in the procedure and the deadlines
for its exercise, as well as the indication that in case of not making allegations in
the term established on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be
considered motion for a resolution when it contains a precise pronouncement
about the imputed responsibility. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/26

        

the

responsibility of

The agreement to initiate the sanctioning file in question contained a
precise statement on
the entity
FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L.: in the aforementioned agreement it was specified what was the conduct
offending, the type of sanction in which it was subsumable, the circumstances
modifications of the responsibility described in articles 45.4 and 45.5 LOPD that are
estimated to be in attendance and the amount of the sanction that, in the opinion of the AEPD,
to impose.
  
In consideration of the foregoing and in accordance with the provisions of article
64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the initiation agreement of PS/00462/2019 is considered
Resolution Proposal.
          
In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The web pages ***URL.2; ***URL.1 and ***URL.3 provide information
on:

-

-

-

the identity and contact details of the controller;
 
the period during which the personal data will be kept;

on the rights of users, (Right to access their personal information)
sound; Right to request correction of information; Right to request res-
restrict the processing of your data; Right to object to the processing of your data
cough under certain circumstances; Right to transfer your data;
Right to revoke consent and Right to file a complaint with a
Spanish control authority).

However, the following deficiencies have been identified:

 On the ***URL.1 website, the identity and contact details of the
responsible are provided under a misleading title ("***TITLE.1", which
seems to mean a business purpose).



The purposes of the treatment are not clearly established, but only
can be derived from information given in another context. Spanish law
requires that the person in charge keep some documents that contain
personal data of customers for tax purposes, and this is not included
information.

 No information is provided on the legal basis for the treatment of

personal information.

 The period during which the personal data will be stored will only be
provides with respect to "customer registration"; without informing about

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/26

period of conservation of the personal data of the clients for purposes
tax.

 The right of the interested parties to oppose the processing of data is mentioned
pursuant to Article 21(1) GDPR, but no reference is made to the
right of the interested party under article 21, paragraph 2, that "When
the processing of personal data is for the purpose of direct marketing,
The interested party will have the right to oppose the treatment at any time.
of personal data concerning you, including profiling
to the extent that it relates to such marketing".

 Information is provided on the right to file a claim with the
the Spanish Data Protection Agency, even if the users are
citizens or individuals on German or French territory. Article 13,
paragraph 2, letter d), refers to the "right to lodge a complaint with
a supervisory authority", which means that the claim can be
submitted to any supervisory authority, not only to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

 In the "D-BILLING" section of the "Terms and Conditions", it is
states that "a simplified invoice will be generated for the order once
that the payment has been accepted and received provided that the total order does not
exceeds 3,000 euros in accordance with current legislation. orders
above this amount cannot be processed if you do not notify your
identification card or NIF", but it is not specified whether providing these data
(in this case NIF or CIF) is a legal or contractual requirement.

.
SECOND: The privacy policy on the ***URL.1 website is difficult to read and
its structure is confusing. Contains a large number of grammatical errors and
spelling and uses terms that do not correspond to words used in the
everyday German language, in German law or in the GDPR (thus being
completely unintelligible).

THIRD: There is no information on the right of the interested party to oppose the
data processing when the purpose is direct marketing and
information presented regarding the right to object to treatment is drafted
in a confusing way, misleading the interested parties. This would make it difficult for
interested parties their exercise of the right to oppose data processing for the purpose of
direct marketing.

FOURTH: FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L., requests that you provide a number of
tax identification in order to issue the simplified invoice. The
responsible informs on its website that a simplified invoice will be issued in
transactions that do not exceed 3,000 euros and that orders that
exceed that amount if a tax identification number is not provided.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/26

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 5 of the RGPD regarding the principles that must govern the processing of data
personal mentions among them that of transparency. Section 1 of the provision provides
ne: “The personal data will be:
          a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party
(«lawfulness, loyalty and transparency»)”
Manifestation of the principle of transparency is the obligation incumbent on the res-
responsible for the treatment of informing, in the terms of article 13 of the RGPD, to the
holder of the personal data when they are obtained directly from the interested party:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the res-
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide you with all the
information listed below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
presenter;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
treatment schedule;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate ses of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,
in your case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision
adequacy assessment by the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated
in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference
lack of adequate or appropriate safeguards and means of obtaining
a copy of these or the fact that they have been loaned.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained,
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/26

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or
the limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right
cho to data portability;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent
at any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on
sado in the consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obligated
to provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences
acknowledgments that you do not provide such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, inform
significant information about applied logic, as well as the importance and con-
planned sequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide
to the data subject, prior to such further processing, information about that other
purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”
Article 5.1.a) of the RGPD sets forth the principle of “lawfulness, fairness and transparency”,
principle in which Recital 39 affects: "All processing of personal data
It must be lawful and fair. For natural persons, it should be made absolutely clear that
are collecting, using, consulting or otherwise processing personal data
that concern them, as well as the extent to which said data is or will be processed. The
The principle of transparency requires that all information and communication regarding the
treatment of said data is easily accessible and easy to understand, and that it is
use simple and clear language. This principle refers in particular to the
information of the interested parties about the identity of the person in charge of the treatment and the
purposes of the same and to the added information to guarantee a fair treatment and
transparent with respect to the affected natural persons and their right to obtain
confirmation and communication of personal data concerning them that are
treatment object. Individuals must be aware of the risks,
the rules, safeguards and rights relating to data processing
as well as how to assert their rights in relation to the
treatment. In particular, the specific purposes of the processing of personal data
they must be explicit and legitimate, and must be determined at the time of collection.
[…]”

For its part, Recital 60 links the duty of information with the principle of
transparency, by establishing that “The principles of fair and transparent treatment
require that the interested party be informed of the existence of the treatment operation and
their ends. The data controller must provide the interested party with

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/26

supplementary information is necessary to ensure fair treatment and
transparent, taking into account the specific circumstances and context in which
process personal data. The interested party must also be informed of the preparation
of profiles and the consequences of said elaboration. If personal data is
they obtain from the interested parties, they must also be informed if they are obliged to
facilitate them and the consequences if they did not […]”. In this order,
Article 12.1 of the RGPD regulates the conditions to ensure its effectiveness
materialization and article 13 specifies what information must be provided when
data is obtained from the interested party.

Article 12.1 of the RGPD establishes that “The data controller will take the
appropriate measures to provide the interested party with all the information indicated in the
articles 13 and 14, as well as any communication under articles 15 to 22
and 34 related to the treatment, in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily
access, in clear and plain language, in particular any information directed
specifically a child. The information will be provided in writing or by other
means, including, if applicable, by electronic means. When requested by
interested, the information may be provided verbally as long as the
identity of the interested party by other means.

III

One part of the claim refers to the privacy policy included in the
web pages whose responsible is FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L.

In relation to transparency, according to what was stated by the authority of
control of Berlin, the privacy policy on the website ***URL.1, which is written
in German, it is difficult to read. Contains a large number of grammatical errors and
spelling and uses terms that do not correspond to words used in the
everyday German language, in German law or in the GDPR (thus being
completely unintelligible).

Also, the structure of the privacy policy is confusing, since, for example,
Under the heading of cookies, reference is also made to social networks and privacy rights.
the interested. Outside the privacy policy section, there is a
section of "Identity of the person in charge" that what it contains are two subsections
referring to child protection policy and links to other websites.

Based on the above, the privacy policy violates article 12.1 of the RGPD
regarding the duty to provide information in a concise, transparent,
intelligible and easily accessible.
 
Regarding the "Privacy Policy" included in the web pages ***URL.2;
***URL.1 and ***URL.3 and in application of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, it has been
verified that, in them, information is provided on: the identity and data of
responsible contact; the period during which the data will be kept
personal; and on the rights of users, (Right to access your information
staff; Right to request correction of information; Right to request restriction
the processing of your data; Right to object to the processing of your data in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/26

certain circumstances; Right to transfer your data; Right to
revoke consent and Right to file a complaint with a law enforcement authority
Spanish check).

However, the following deficiencies have been identified, already included in the
proven facts:



 On the ***URL.1 website, the identity and contact details of the
responsible are provided under a misleading title ("***TITLE.1", which
seems to mean a business purpose).
The purposes of the treatment are not clearly established, but only
can be derived from information given in another context. Furthermore, the law
Spanish requires that the person in charge keep some documents that
contain personal customer data for tax purposes; this is missing
information.

 Information is provided on the purposes of the treatment to which they are
intended personal data (with some limitations, as has been
mentioned), but not on the legal basis thereof (article 13 (1) (c)).

 The period during which the personal data will be stored will only be
provides with respect to "customer registration". However, Spanish law
requires that the person in charge keep some documents that contain
personal data of customers for tax purposes; missing this period
retention for this treatment.

 The right of the interested parties to oppose the processing of data is mentioned
pursuant to Article 21(1) GDPR, but no reference is made to the
right of the interested party under article 21, paragraph 2, that "When
the processing of personal data is for the purpose of direct marketing,
The interested party will have the right to oppose the treatment at any time.
of personal data concerning you, including profiling
to the extent that it relates to such marketing".

 Information is provided on the right to file a claim with the
the Spanish Data Protection Agency, even if the users are
citizens or individuals on German or French territory. Article 13,
paragraph 2, letter d), refers to the "right to lodge a complaint with
a supervisory authority", which means that the claim can be
submitted to any supervisory authority, not only to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

 In the "D-BILLING" section of the "Terms and Conditions", it is
states that "a simplified invoice will be generated for the order once
that the payment has been accepted and received provided that the total order does not
exceeds 3,000 euros in accordance with current legislation. orders
above this amount cannot be processed if you do not notify your
identification card or NIF", but it is not specified whether the provision of data
(in this case NIF or CIF) is a legal or contractual requirement, such as
it is established in article 13 (2) (e).

Thus, the known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the
claimed, for violation of article 13 of the RGPD, which establishes the information that
must be provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data
personal.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/26

The claimed party, in its capacity as data controller, in accordance with article 13
RGPD was obliged to include in its web pages, through which it collects the data
various information from third parties that you have totally and absolutely dispensed with.

The web pages through which it collects personal data violates the article
12 and article 13 of the RGPD, conduct that is subject to article 83.5 of the
RGPD that provides: “Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned
in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20,000,000 Eur as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% maximum
amount of the global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting-
I know for the highest amount:

(...)

a)
a) The rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

For the mere purposes of prescription, article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD qualifies as very
serious “The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law”. The statute of limitations for very serious offenses
serious foreseen in the LOPDGDD is three years.

IV

Derived from the fact included in the Legal Basis II and III about the lack of
information on the right of the interested party to oppose the processing of data
when the purpose is direct marketing and that the information
presented regarding the right to oppose the treatment, by virtue of article 21.1,
is worded in a confusing way, it would be misleading the interested parties.

The foregoing entails the consequence of making it difficult for the interested parties to exercise
right to oppose data processing for direct marketing purposes, and for
Therefore, the provisions of article 21.4 are being infringed. which provides that "More
late at the time of the first communication with the interested party, the right
indicated in sections 1 and 2 will be explicitly mentioned to the interested party and will be
presented clearly and apart from any other information”

The facts indicated are constitutive of an infraction, attributable to the claimed,
for violation of article 21 of the RGPD, which establishes the right to oppose the
processing of your personal data for advertising purposes.

For its part, article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “The impediment or the obstruction or the repeated non-attention of the
exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679”

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

v

20/26

As stated above, article 5.1.a) of the RGPD states, as one of the
the principles relating to treatment, the obligation that personal data be
processed “in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party (“lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency") and for said treatment to be lawful, it must be possible to
based on any of the legitimizing bases established by the RGPD in its
article 6.1:

“The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is fulfilled:

ditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
final for one or several specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
third party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of an applicable legal obligation.

cable to the data controller;

d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or

of another natural person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests per-
guided by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
teresa be a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment

conduct carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

In relation to the foregoing, the claim made by the interested party referred to
to the request, by the merchant, of the need to provide a number of
tax identification in order to proceed with the issuance of the invoice. Taking into account
that, as reported by the person in charge on its website, an invoice will be issued
simplified in transactions that do not exceed 3,000 euros and that may not
Orders in excess of that amount will be processed if a shipping number is not provided.
tax identification, the fact that the request of the interested party had been processed without
that it was necessary to provide that tax identification number would imply that
the interested party has the right to request a simplified invoice without it being lawful
require the aforementioned identification number for its issuance.

In accordance with the foregoing, the request for a tax identification number made
lacks a legitimizing basis, which is a violation of article 6.1 and, in
consequence, of the principle established in article 5.1.a) of the RGPD.

For its part, article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679”

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/26

in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

SAW

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time,
considers that the exposed facts fail to comply with the provisions of articles 5.1 a),
6.1, 12.1, 13 and 21.4 of the RGPD, which implies the commission of respective infractions
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58(2) of the RGPD. These
include the power to direct a warning (article 58 (2) (b)), the power to impose
an administrative fine under article 83 GDPR — article 58 (2) (i) — or the
power to order the person in charge or person in charge to ensure that the operations
of treatment comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when applicable, of a
determined manner and within a specified period — Article 58.2 (d) -.

In accordance with article 83 (2) GDPR, the measure provided for in article 58 (2) (d)
RGPD is compatible with the sanction in the form of an administrative fine.

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/26

measure;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

For its part, article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures” of the LOPDGDD

has:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the penalties
fine to be imposed in this case on the defendant, as responsible for
offenses typified in article 83.5.a) and b) of the RGPD, the fine should be graduated
that should be imposed for each of the imputed infractions.

For the quantification of the fines for each infraction, as a mitigating circumstance
Of all the infractions, we have to consider that it is a small company.

And as aggravating circumstances of the infractions, we must consider the
following:

1. Infraction due to breach of article 12 and article 13 of the RGPD, as
defines in article 83, paragraph 5, letter b), of the RGPD:

It is considered that the following criteria are met to be taken into consideration:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/26

. The nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, since the lack of information
prevents knowing in all its extension what the data treatment consists of
and hampers the exercise of rights by the interested parties.
 
. The continuing nature of the offense.

. High number of interested parties, since all those who
access the pages and whose data is processed, from various EU countries.

In light of the aforementioned factors, the amount of the fine for this
infringement is 3,000 euros.

2. Infringement due to breach of article 21 of the RGPD, as defined in the
Article 83, paragraph 5, letter a), of the RGPD:

The following criteria are considered to be met:

. The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operations in question,
since the exercise of a right to the interested parties is effectively prevented.
 
. The continuing nature of the offense;

In light of the aforementioned factors, the amount of the fine for this
infringement is 1,000 euros.

3. Violation due to breach of article 5, section 1, letter a), and article 6,
paragraph 1 of the GDPR, as defined in article 83, paragraph 5, letter a), of the
GDPR:

It is considered that the following criteria are met to be taken into consideration:

. The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operations in question,
given that the lack of legitimacy in relation to the application for the number of
Tax identification by itself makes the processing of personal data impossible.

In light of the above factors, the amount of the fine for the
infraction is 2,000 euros”

7th

In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, each authority of
control may “order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
when appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period…”.

In this case, considering the circumstances expressed in relation to the defects
appreciated, from the point of view of data protection regulations, it is appropriate
require the data controller to provide the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/26

Align your privacy policy with article 12 of the RGPD in terms of

conciseness, transparency and intelligibility, which in particular requires the use of
terms used in the data protection law or at least in a language
common and an easily understandable structure that mentions each piece of information
under the correct title;

Align the information with article 13 of the RGPD, which in particular


requires clearly stating:

o All the purposes pursued with the treatment, including the treatment

that the person in charge is obliged to carry out by law;

o The term during which the personal data will be kept,
stated in such a way as to leave no doubt as to what period of
conservation applies to the processing of what data and for what purpose;
o The legal basis of each treatment, indicated in a way that does not leave
doubt as to what legal basis applies to the processing of what
data and for what purpose;

o The right to object to processing for marketing purposes

o Under what circumstances the client is obliged to provide his number
of tax identification and that this follows from the legislation
Spanish;

o That in accordance with the provisions of article 13, section 2, letter
d), of the RGPD, must inform of the right to file a claim
before a supervisory authority.

direct;

Do not ask for the tax identification number of the clients unless the

controller has obtained valid consent for this or is bound by
law to treat these data in order to include them in an invoice

Give a period of three months from the date of publication of the resolution to
follow the above steps.

In addition, the measures that may be taken in the decision ending the
procedure, in relation to the treatment activities, the information provided
to the interested parties and the exercise of the rights, will be applied in all the countries of the
European Union in which the required entity operates.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as a serious administrative infraction by “not cooperating with the Authority
of control” before the requirements made, being able to be valued such behavior to the
time of the opening of an administrative sanctioning procedure with a fine
pecuniary

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:
 
FIRST: Sanction the entity FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L., with CIF B67094375,
for an infringement of articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/26

classified as very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.h) of the
LOPDGDD, with a fine amounting to 3,000 euros (three thousand euros).

SECOND: Penalize the entity FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L., with CIF B67094375,
for an infringement of article 21.4 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) and
classified as very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.k) of the
LOPDGDD, with a fine amounting to 1,000 euros (one thousand euros).

THIRD: Sanction the entity FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L., with CIF B67094375,
for an infringement of article 5.1.a) and 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) and
classified as very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.b) of the
LOPDGDD, with a fine amounting to 2,000 euros (two thousand euros).

FOURTH: Require the entity FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L., with NIF B67094375,
so that, within a period of three months, it adapts to the data protection regulations
personal the treatment operations that it carries out, the information offered to its
clients, with the scope expressed in the Legal Basis VII. such suitability
It must also be implemented in all the countries of the European Economic Area.
in which FURNISHYOURSPACE operates.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this resolution to FURNISHYOURSPACE, S.L.,

SIXTH: Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
that this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of art.
98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period
established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Real
Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number of
procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/26

the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

