

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing when using cookies
Company


The inspection was carried out on the basis of the Office's Inspection Plan for 2019. It focused on the processing of personal data in the form of cookies and their use in remarketing.

Cookies are small text files that are stored on the user's device (computer, phone, etc.) when visiting a website and are a carrier of information about which pages the user visited and what information they searched for. The practical impact on the data subject is therefore such that the Internet pages browsed by him (e.g. news websites and other portals on which advertising space is located) subsequently display a targeted offer of previously visited Internet pages.

The control focused on whether the controlled person, when dealing with personal data (cookies) within the framework of remarketing, proceeds both in accordance with the general regulation and in accordance with Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic communications. Cookies can be classified under the concept of personal data in the sense of Article 4 point 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in conjunction with Recital 30 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, which states that identifiers can be assigned to natural persons, whereby these identifiers leave traces that, in conjunction with other information obtained by the servers, can lead to the unique identification of a specific natural person and can be used to profile them.

The controlled person is in the position of a personal data administrator, as he has determined the purpose and means of personal data processing, the purpose being the personalization of displayed advertisements and the preferential offering of goods, and the means of personal data processing are the individual services that the controlled person uses (e.g. Doubleclick, Custom audiences and lookalike audiences).

The inspectors noted that the inspected person obtains personal data in accordance with the parameters set out in ยง 89 paragraph 3 of Act No. 127/2005 Coll.; provides data subjects with information in accordance with the requirements of the aforementioned provision, as it properly fulfills the information obligation in the sense of Articles 12-14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and informs data subjects primarily of the scope and purpose of personal data processing, while at the same time enabling them to refuse such processing .

The inspection concluded that the processing of this personal data is in order, as all the requirements stipulated by both the regulation and Act No. 127/2005 Coll.




Additional information:
When obtaining cookies, in addition to the obligations under Act No. 127/2005 Coll. also comply with the requirements for the processing of personal data according to Regulation (EU) 2016/679, especially in advance and in time (before the start of processing) to provide the data subjects with information about the intended processing of this data.






ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > IT technology > Inspection of personal data processing when using cookiesView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



