1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00185/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 5, 2020, you entered this Agency
Spanish Data Protection, a document presented by COMMUNITY OF
OWNERS R.R.R. (hereinafter, the complaining party), by which it formulates
claim against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party), by the
installation of a video surveillance system installed in *** ADDRESS.1, existing
indications of a possible breach of the provisions of the data protection regulations.
Personal data.

The claim is based on the fact that the defendant has installed a security camera
video surveillance in your parking space oriented towards common areas, and that, in addition,
the informative poster is incomplete.

Attach photographic report.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred to the claimed party, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), being received
dated 02/12/2021, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt issued by the
post.

There is no evidence that any brief of allegations has been received by this Agency.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of April 23
of 2021.

FOURTH: On July 1, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5
of the GDPR.

FIFTH: On July 14, 2021, the respondent submitted a document in which
states that, on February 12, 2021, he sent an email to this
Agency with your allegations.

However, upon receipt of the Agreement to Commence this Sanctioning Procedure,
has sent a new letter, by post, providing a copy of said mail and several
Photographs.

The claimed indicates that the camera does not record, that it only has a blinking red light.
That he put it because there were many robberies happening in the storage rooms.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

“I have a sign downloaded from the internet warning that there is a camera, that is
true but only to give credibility and that my storage room is not stolen (…)”

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On November 5, 2020, a claim was filed in this
Agency because the respondent has a video surveillance camera installed in his
parking space oriented towards common areas, and that, in addition, the information poster
it is incomplete.

A photographic report has been attached.

SECOND: It is identified as the main responsible D. A.A.A. with NIF
***NIF.1.

THIRD: The defendant wields security reasons for the installation of the
camera, which is fictitious, which does not record and only has a flashing red light.

He provides photographs of the camera and the poster that he claims to have downloaded from
Internet.

FOURTH: Examining the file as a whole, it has been verified that in the
e-mail that the respondent declares to have sent to this Agency in
February 2021, there is an address not authorized to receive this type of
documentation.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated November 5
of 2020 by means of which the placement of a
video surveillance camera in the garage of the defendant oriented towards areas
common, and that has an incomplete information poster.

Article 5.1 c) of the RGPD provides that “Personal data will be adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed (“data minimization”)”.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with
all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

Article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD provides that:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood fulfilled by placing an informative device instead
sufficiently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information".

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

Nor can images of public spaces be obtained with this type of device,
as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, which are seen
intimidated by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

III

On July 14, 2021, a written statement was received from the respondent
stating that the camera is fictitious, that it does not record and only has a red light
flashing.

“I have a sign downloaded from the internet warning that there is a camera, that is
true but only to give credibility and that my storage room is not stolen (…)”

Article 28.7 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (LPACAP, hereinafter) provides: "The
Interested parties will be responsible for the veracity of the documents they submit.

It should be noted that individuals can install cameras on their private property
false, although they must be oriented exclusively towards your property,
avoiding intimidating third parties with said devices.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

In the installation of this type of “simulated” devices, caution must be taken.
necessary to avoid intimidating third parties who are unaware of the character
"fictitious" of these, who can believe they see themselves recorded by them, in such a way that they
should avoid its orientation towards public space.

Although in the past the AEPD has sanctioned data controllers for
use of this type of device, it is currently understood that the use of cameras
simulated does not imply an infringement of the fundamental right to data protection.

The Judgment of the First Chamber of the Supreme Court of November 7, 2019
declares that the installation of a fake video surveillance camera, apparently
identical to other fully operative ones, is likely to restrict the freedom of
third parties.

The TS reasons that when an individual does not know that he is being filmed,
behaves with a naturalness and spontaneity that would not occur otherwise. And that
“The plaintiff's right to the tranquility of his private life also includes the
of not having to endure a permanent uncertainty” about whether the camera in
question is operational or not, or whether "RCRE has replaced it with another fully
identical in appearance and functional.

Therefore, it must be taken into account that the behavior described in the event of
excessive can have consequences in other areas of law, being
It is advisable to take the necessary precautions to avoid excessive orientation
towards public space, limiting itself to the façade of the house to be protected.

Likewise, it is recommendable to follow the indications of the Forces and Bodies of the
locality, which can guide you in the matter if you need it, avoiding with
them new complaints about it.

IV

Based on the foregoing, it is considered that the camera is simulated, this
is, that it does not obtain any image of an identified or identifiable natural person, therefore
that since there is no processing of personal data, it cannot be said
administrative offense in the matter at hand.

The parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake and must avoid
instrumentalize institutions in matters beyond their competence,
having to adjust the relationships between them to the minimum requirements of the
good neighbor rules

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction in the matter that we
occupies.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

