 

To: The Presidency of the Council of the EU 

 

 

 

        Brussels, 9 October 2019 

 

 

By email only 

  

Dear Madam or Sir, 

Ref: OUT2019-0035 

The Article 29 Working Party adopted two Opinions in 2008 and 2009 (WP156 and WP 162) on certain 
relevant  provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code  and the  International Standards completing the 
Code.  In  2013,  the  Article  29  Working  Party  sent  a  letter  to  WADA  (Ref.  Ares  (2013)289160  - 
05/03/2013)  with  a  number  of  observations  and  concerns  with  regards  to  the  Code  and  its 
International Standards. 

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB), as successor of the Art.29 Working Party, has attentively 
followed the activities of the World Anti-Doping Agency, and particularly the different phases in the 
revision process of both the World Anti-Doping Code and of the International Standards. 

With  this  letter,  in  the  context  of  the  third  and  final  stage  of  the  public  consultation  organised  by 
WADA,  the  EDPB  firstly  acknowledges  that  essential  progress  has  been  made  in  relation  to  the 
safeguards on privacy and data protection provided by the Code and its Standards and that a few of 
the Article 29 Working Party’s remarks outlined in its earlier opinions and in its letter to WADA have 
been  taken  into  account  during  the  revision  process of  the  anti-doping  rules.  Nevertheless, on  the 
occasion of the third and final stage of the public consultation organised by WADA, we would like to 
raise  some  remaining  concerns  regarding  these  documents,  particularly  in  respect  of  the  latest 
modifications brought to them by WADA. These concerns mainly relate to aspects already highlighted 
in the previous contributions of the  Art. 29 Working Party, such as  the issue of the lawfulness of data 
processing    based  on  consent,  the  application  of  the  International  Standard  for  the  Protection  of 
Privacy and Personal Information vis-à-vis the Code and/or the other applicable laws laying down rules 
setting a lower level of protection for privacy and personal data, as well as the retention periods and 
the automatic and unselective publication of anti-doping rule violations on the Internet. 

The EDPB will not reiterate all the remarks mentioned in the earlier contributions of Article 29 Working 
Party already endorsed, but if they have not been considered in the different phases of the current 
revision process, they should be considered as having been restated with this letter. In addition, you 
will find further remarks on the compliance of the WADA Code and its International Standards with 
the General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter GDPR) annexed to this letter. 

The EDPB makes these observations in light of the level of protection offered by the GDPR, currently 
in force. 

 

 

 

 

1 

The EDPB calls upon WADA to take into account  its remarks, which are aimed at safeguarding a level 
of data protection equivalent to that of the EU, but also, more fundamentally, at promoting the highest 
possible level of data protection in the interest of all individuals concerned. 

The  EDPB  remains  at  WADA's  disposal  for  any  further  information  or  explanation  regarding  its 
observations. 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

Remarks and comments on the compliance of the WADA Code and its 
International Standards1 with the GDPR2 
 
Address the issue of Data Controller/Data processor (cf. Art. 29 WP’s second Opinion 
4/2009, 2.2) 
As mentioned in the Second Opinion 4/2009 of the Art. 29 WP3, there is still no reference in the Code 
nor  in  the  Standards  concerning  the  issue  of  data  controller/data  processor  for  any  particular 
processing. It could be of particular relevance to address this issue, especially regarding non-EU-bodies 
acting as data controller in the EU or non-EU-bodies collecting data of EU individuals.  

 

Extending the scope to recreational-level Athletes is an interference (cf. Art. 29 WP’s 
second Opinion 4/2009, 3.1) 
With  regard  to  the  term  “Athlete”  which  refers  to  any  Person  who  competes  in  sport  at  the 
international or at the national level, the Code specifies that any Anti-Doping Organization (hereinafter 
ADO) has discretion to apply anti-doping rules to Athletes who are neither International-Level Athletes 
nor  National-Level  Athletes,  and  thus  to  bring  them  within  the  scope  of  the  Code  and  of  its 
International Standards. Thus, the definition allows each National ADO, if it chooses to do so, to expand 
its antidoping program beyond International- or National - Level Athletes to competitors at lower levels 
of Competition or to individuals who engage in fitness activities but do not compete at all.  

Moreover, according to the Code, if a particular anti-doping rule violation is committed by any Athlete 
over  whom  an  ADO  has  elected  to  exercise  its  authority  to  test  and  who  competes  below  the 
international or national level, then the consequences set forth in the Code must be applied. In this 
regard, it should be highlighted that the Code and its International Standards lay down a complex set 
of  rules  which  requires  Athletes  and  Athlete  Support  Personnel  to  furnish  a  significant  amount  of 
Personal  Information  to  ADOs  and  WADA,  such  as  those  related  to  Testing  and  Sample  analysis, 
Whereabouts information, Athlete Biological Passport, Therapeutic Use Exemptions, Anti-doping rule 
violations, etc.  

In  accordance  with  the  data  protection  legislation  principles  of  proportionality,  necessity  and  data 
minimisation, the related processing activities carried out by ADOs and WADA should not go beyond 
what is strictly necessary and proportionate for the purposes of preventing and fighting against doping 
in sport (cf. the 2005 UNESCO International Convention which has been ratified by the majority of the 
EU Member States in order to endorse the work of WADA at international level). In this context, it is 
essential that in deciding to extend their anti-doping program to sportsmen and sportswomen who 
compete below national level, National ADOs rely on a proper and rigorous assessment of the relevant 
risks of doping in a sport or in a sport discipline in accordance with the tools provided by the Code and 

                                                           
1 International Standard for the Protection of Privacy and Personal Information (ISPPI) and International 
Standard for Testing and Investigation (ISTI). 
2 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) 
3 Second Opinion 4/2009 on the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) International Standard for the Protection 
of Privacy and Personal Information, on related provisions of the WADA Code and on other privacy issues in the 
context of fight against doping in sport by WADA and (national) anti-doping organizations. 

 

3 

its Standard with a view to identifying high risk athletes to be targeted for controls (cf. International 
Standard for Testing, notably 4.2 and 4.3).  

In the light of the above, the Board considers that extending the scope of the Anti-doping Code and its 
International  Standards  to  recreational-level  Athletes  (who  engage  in  fitness  activities  but  never 
compete) would be seen, as a general rule, as a disproportionate interference with the right to privacy 
and to protection of personal data of the concerned Athletes. 

 

The Standard is not legally binding (cf. Art. 29 WP’s Letter to WADA of 5th March 
2013) 
The International Standard for the Protection of Privacy and Personal Information (hereinafter ISPPI) 
in  its  Article  4.1  mentions  the  principle  according  to  which  the  common  minimum  set  of  rules 
established by the standard applies to all ADOs (including WADA) without prejudice to stricter rules or 
norms  they  may  have  to  observe  pursuant  to  their  applicable  data  protection  and/or  privacy 
legislation. However, the comment related to the same Article clarifies that ADOs (including WADA) 
must comply with the said set of rules, provided that such compliance does not breach other applicable 
laws. In cases where such compliance may cause an ADO (or WADA) to breach other applicable laws, 
those laws shall prevail (see also, in the same direction, Article 5.1).  

This  means  that  the  Standard  which  completes  the  World  Anti-Doping  Code  with  regard  to  data 
protection and/or privacy issues, is not legally binding. In particular, where applicable laws lay down 
provisions contrary to the safeguards on privacy and data protection provided by the Standard, these 
safeguards will not take precedence. This would not be a problem when the national applicable law 
sets a higher standard of protection for personal data than the one set forth in the Standard but it 
would be a cause of concern, if the ADO is obliged to apply a law setting a lower level of protection.  

In these cases, it could be of particular relevance to require that the concerned ADO has to refer the 
matter to WADA and to the other ADOs without delay, so that these latter can take the appropriate 
measures in order to properly protect the data and/or the privacy of the affected Athlete or other 
concerned Person. 

 

Communicating the DPO’s contact information should be mandatory (cf. Art. 29 WP’s 
Letter to WADA of 5th March 2013) 
The  ISPPI  in  its  article  4.5  provides  for  the  designation  of  a  “Person”  by  ADOs  and  WADA  who  is 
accountable for compliance with the Standard and local applicable laws, included data privacy laws. 
This person may be regarded as a Data Protection Officer (DPO) as described in the articles 37 to 39 of 
GDPR and should not be personally responsible in case of non-compliance with the GDPR4.  
  
Notably, the Board regrets that the communication of the DPO's name and contact information is not 
mandatory and subject to a request from the Athlete or from the other concerned Person. Conversely, 
the  communication  of  the  DPO's  contact  details  should  have  to  be  ensured  to  data  subjects  -  as 
nevertheless  required  by  Article  7.1  of  the  ISSPI  -  in  order  to  make  Athletes  and  other  concerned 
Persons aware of existence of a DPO as well as of the chance to contact him/her with regard to all 
issues related to the processing of their personal data. 

                                                           
4 Guidelines on Data Protection Officers (‘DPOs’), p.4 

4 

 

 
The principle of data minimisation must not be derogated 
Regarding Article 5.3 of the ISSPI, we regret that the principle of data minimisation outlined in this 
provision may be derogated if “otherwise permitted or required by the Code”. This means that the 
safeguards on privacy and data protection set forth in the Standard will not be applicable if the rules 
of the Code lay down provisions which are contrary to them and -what is even more serious - that the 
Code itself does not seem to be fully in line with the Standard. As mentioned in Art. 29 WP’s earlier 
opinions, we are strongly in favour of the decision to promote the protection of privacy and personal 
data in the context of anti-doping activities which transpires in the Standard.  

Nevertheless, we wonder whether the ISSPI will ensure effective compliance with the rules governing 
the  protection  of  individuals'  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms,  considering  that  the  provisions 
outlined in the Standard will not even take precedence over the Code. 

 
Clarify the grounds for processing (cf. second Opinion 4/2009, 3.3 and Art. 29 WP’s 
Letter to WADA of 5th March 2013) 
We observed that the ISPPI in its Article 6 mentions different legal grounds to process personal data. 
Processing of personal data may be either based on a “valid legal ground”) or on the “Participant’s or 
other  Person’s  consent”.  It  is  not  however  entirely  clear  under  what  circumstances  a”  valid  legal 
ground” or a “consent” should be required. This point should be clarified.  

Regarding consent, as mentioned in the Article 29 WP’s second Opinion 4/2009, 3.3, the requirement 
of such a consent to process personal data (Art 6.1 ISPPI), included sensitive data (Art. 6.3 ISPPI) does 
not comply with article 6, 7 and 9 of GDPR. Indeed, although the ISSPI requires that such a consent 
“shall  be  informed,  freely  given  specific  and  unambiguous”  the  sanctions  and  the  negative 
consequences  attached  to  a  possible  refusal  by  participants  to  consent  to  the  processing  of  their 
personal information as required for the purposes of the Code may prevent them to give a truly free 
consent  (in  this  regard,  see  Article  6.2  of  the  ISSPI).  Therefore,  the  validity  of  such  consent  is 
problematic. 

Moreover, consent requirement to process criminal convictions, sanctions and offences (Art. 10 ISPPI) 
is not a valid legal ground according to Article 10 GDPR. Indeed, the processing of such data may be 
carried out only under  the control of official authority or if suitable safeguards are provided under 
national or EU law. Therefore, ADOs are not allowed to process such data, neither by publishing them 
on the Internet nor by processing them in other registrations unless national law or EU law allow it and 
if suitable safeguards are provided. 

Regarding a “valid legal ground”, a more appropriate lawful basis would be compliance with a legal 
obligation to which the controller is subject, in accordance with article 6(1)(c) GDPR. 

 
Ensure appropriate information to data subjects (cf. Art. 29 WP’s Letter to WADA of 
5th March 2013) 
Regarding the information to be provided to data subjects, in line with the wording of the other rules 
set  forth  in  the  Standard,  it  is  appropriate  to  mention  WADA,  along  with  the  ADOs,  as  one  of  the 
entities which has the responsibility to meet to this obligation in its capacity as controller.  

 

5 

Moreover,  in  relation  to  the  elements  that  should  be  communicated  to  the  Person  to  whom  the 
personal data relates, we suggest aligning the list outlined in Article 7.1 of the ISSPI to the provisions 
of Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR whether personal data have been obtained from the data subject or 
not..  

In the latter case, where ADOs (including WADA) receive Personal Information from Third Parties, and 
not  directly  from  Athletes  or  other  concerned  Persons,  Article  7.2  of  the  ISSPI  provides  that  data 
subjects have to be informed "as soon as possible and without undue delay".  

In this regard, to ensure a higher degree of protection for individuals, we suggest fixing a more precise 
deadline, such as the expression “but at the latest within one month” or, if the personal data are to be 
used for communication with the data subject, “at the latest at the time of the first communication to 
that  Person  to  whom  the  Personal  Information  relates”  or  if  a  disclosure  to  another  recipient  is 
envisaged, “at the latest when the personal data are first disclosed”.  

Lastly,  the  derogation  to  the  obligation  of  providing  such  notice  outlined  in  Article  7.2  should  be 
reworded in stricter terms in order to ensure that notice to data subjects may be delayed or suspended 
where  providing  such  notice  “is  likely  to  render  impossible  or  seriously  impair”  an  anti-doping 
investigation or the integrity of the anti-doping process.  

 
Disclosures of personal data have to be linked to doping (cf. Art. 29 WP’s Letter to 
WADA of 5th March 2013) 
As to the conditions under which the disclosure of data by ADO’s/WADA to Third Parties is authorised, 
Article  8.3.  c)  of  the  ISSPI  does  not  specify  whether  the  "criminal  offence"  or  the  "breach  of 
professional conduct rules" must be qualified as doping or at least be doping-related, or whether it is 
any "criminal offence" or "breach of professional conduct rules". As mentioned in Art. 29 WP’s letter 
to WADA of 5th March 2013, we are of the opinion that it cannot be any criminal offence or breach of 
professional conduct rules, and that they have to be closely linked to doping. These limitations should 
be added to the text. 

 

Use a stricter deadline for notification of security breaches (cf. Art. 29 WP’s Letter to 
WADA of 5th March 2013) 
With regard to the deadline  for the  notification of Security Breaches  to the affected data subjects, 
Article 9.5 of the ISSPI requires that they must be informed by the responsible ADO/WADA “as soon 
as reasonably possible once the ADOs or WADA becomes aware of the details of the Security Breach”. 
In this context we suggest however using a stricter deadline, such as the expression “without undue 
delay” that would contribute to ensure a higher degree of protection for individuals, particularly when 
this provision has to be applied in different legal and cultural contexts.  

 

Consider data protection impact assessment prior to the processing 
The ISPPI in its article 9.6 plans that ADOs and WADA “shall regularly assess their processing of sensitive 
data  information  and  whereabouts  information  to  determine  the  proportionality  and  risks  of  their 
processing (…).”  

 

6 

We would also recommend taking into consideration the Article 35 GDPR and the EDPB guidelines 
concerning the realisation of a data protection impact assessment “prior to the processing”5, which 
could be suggested to ADOs/WADA, where not necessary under applicable laws, as a best practice. 
This tool allows controllers to take measures to address the risks to the rights and freedoms of the 
data subjects in relation to all processing operations which present high risks to those rights and 
freedoms and, therefore, not necessarily only when the processing concerns Sensitive Personal 
Information or Whereabouts Information. 
 

Define maximum retention times (cf. second Opinion 04/2009, 3.5. and Letter to 
WADA of 5th March 2013) 
Maximum retention times have been set up in the Annex A of the ISPPI: respectively 18 months and 
10 years, depending on the nature of the data and the necessity and proportionality to keep those 
data. However, for some particular data, no maximum retention time has been defined which is not 
consistent with the principle of storage limitation. Indeed, it is planned to retain some data indefinitely 
(for  instance,  whereabouts  only  in  case  of  disciplinary  ruling  or  other  ABP  documents,  disciplinary 
ruling data). 
 
The possibility to retain such sensitive data for an indefinite time is not compliant with the legislation 
on data protection set forth in the GDPR. A maximum retention time should be defined according to 
the principles of necessity and proportionality.  It should also be considered that, according to Article 
4.4. of the ISSPI, ADOs/WADA shall maintain under their responsibility a record of the Processing which 
will  also  describe,  amongst  other  elements,  the  period  for  which  the  Personal  Information  will  be 
stored or the criteria used to determine this period. The same indications have also to be provided to 
data subjects according to Article 7.1 of the ISSPI. Concerning the retention time of samples which are 
considered as sensitive  data  under  GDPR, the Annex A of the  International Standard Protection on 
Privacy and Personal Information (ISPPI) indicates that « samples [which] are anonymous, (…) may be 
retained indefinitely for scientific purposes ».   

In this regard, we would like to stress the impossibility to definitively de-identify urine or blood samples 
due to its biological nature. Indeed, biological samples (urine/blood samples) contain the person’s DNA 
and the re-identification of the athlete cannot be excluded in any event. This is also the reason why a 
maximum retention period for samples shall be fixed to protect athlete’s privacy.  
 
According  to  Article  4.7.3  of  the  International  Standard  for  Testing  and  Investigations,  in  order  to 
define a retention strategy, ADOs should take into account « the possible need for retroactive analysis 
in  connection  with  the  Athlete  Biological  Passport  program »,  « new  detection  methods  to  be 
introduced  in  the  near  future  relevant  to  the  Athlete,  sport  and/or  discipline »  or  « any  other 
information  made  available  to  the  Anti-Doping  Organization  “.  However,  these  criteria  are  not 
sufficient  to  justify  an  indefinite  retention  of  samples.  An  adequate  retention  period  for  samples 
should be considered. For example: Is the retention of a sample for an indefinite period still relevant 
once an athlete retired or after expiration of the limitation period for proceedings? 
 
 
 

                                                           
5 Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining whether processing is “likely to 
result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/6, p.17 

 

7 

The right of access to personal information is derogated (cf. Art. 29 WP’s second 
Opinion 4/2009, 3.2.6) 
The ISSPI in its Article 11.1 provides that, in certain cases, data subjects are not entitled to exercise the 
right  of access  to personal information. As highlighted in Art. 29  WP’s second Opinion 4/2009, the 
derogation is formulated in particularly vague terms and it does not, on the face of it, appear to be in 
conformity with the data protection legislation set forth in the GDPR. In this respect, we confirm that 
there would not a priori be a reason to withhold access to information on data in connection with «the 
integrity  of  the  anti-doping  system  or  ADOs’/WADA’s  ability  to  plan  or  conduct  No  Advance  Notice 
Testing or to investigate and establish anti-doping rule violations or other legal claim».  

request 

In addition, Article 11.2 provides that in certain circumstances, the ADOs/WADA are not obliged to 
answer  access 
the  Anti-Doping 
Organizations/WADA  in  terms  of  cost  or  effort  given  the  nature  of  the  Personal  Information  in 
question”. As already mentioned, Art. 29 WP’s second Opinion 4/2009, this exception does not appear 
to be in conformity with the data protection legislation. 

it  “imposes  a  disproportionate  burden  on 

if 

In relation to both article 11.1 and 11.2, the Boards notes that any restriction of the right of access is 
only allowed if it conforms to the provisions of Article 23 of the GDPR which authorises Member States 
to adopt legislative measures aiming to restrict the scope of this obligation insofar as this restriction 
respects the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and is a necessary and 
proportionate measure in a democratic society. Therefore, the refusal of exercise of the right of access 
by the data subjects, set out in Article 11.3 of the ISSPI, is permissible only under the conditions of 
Article 23 of the GDPR, which must be interpreted strictly. 

Lastly, the Board stresses once again that the Code should contain a right of remedy and a right of 
compensation for the damage suffered by the Athletes or other concerned Persons as a result of a 
processing operation incompatible with the Standard. 
 
Publication on the Internet must be proportionally (Art. 29 WP’s second Opinion 
4/2009 3.6 and Letter to WADA of 5th March 2013) 
Regarding the unselective and automatic publication of all anti-doping rule violations on the  Internet 
for the duration of one month or the duration of the athlete’s ineligibility, provided by Articles 14.3.2 
and 14.3.5 of the Code, we still refer to the Art.29 WP’s second Opinion 4/2009 (par. 3.6) and the letter 
to  WADA  of  5ht  March  2013  concerning  the  proportionality  to  use  Internet  as  a  proper  diffusion 
channel for reporting publicly all anti-doping rule violations, without regard to the specific facts and 
circumstances of the case.  

Similar concerns can be raised with regard to Article 14.4 of the Code that provides that ADOs may 
publish statistical reports of their Doping Control activities, showing the name of each Athlete tested 
and the date of each Testing.  

As the Article 29 WP has outlined in its previous contributions, the Board suggests that public reporting 
should not be automatic and mandatory but, according to the principles of necessity, proportionality 
and data minimisation, should depend on the facts and circumstances of the case. As for the aspects 
that  could  be  considered  in  order  to  determine  whether  the  publication  of  an  anti-doping  rule 
violations is proportionate, we still refer to the elements mentioned by Article 29 WP in the letter to 
WADA of 5ht March 2013. 

 

8 

Establish appropriate safeguards when re-using data for research  
The WADA Code provides for the possibility to make further researches on samples after the written 
athlete’s consent has been obtained (Article 6.3 WADA Code). This could be consistent with Article 9.2 
of the GDPR (consent is required to process sensitive data  – unless the consent cannot be specific, 
informed  and  unambiguous  or  it  is  not  freely  given,  for  example  because  the  data  subject  has  no 
genuine or free choice or is unable to refuse or withdraw consent at any time without detriment  ). 
However, re-use of health data for research purposes may be subject to appropriate safeguards for 
the rights and freedom of data subjects, in accordance with Article 89 of the GDPR.  

The  Code  mentions  in  its  Art  19.2  that  “relevant  anti-doping  research  may  include,  for  example, 
sociological,  behavioural,  juridical  and  ethical  studies  in  addition  to  medical,  analytical  and 
physiological  investigation”.  We  express  doubts  about  the  necessity  and  the  legitimacy  for  further 
researches on samples in the anti-doping fight as described in Article 19.2 of the Code. WADA should 
be more precise in in the defining what may include “relevant anti-doping research” on samples as 
well as in identifying the purposes of analysis of samples such as in Article 6.2 of the Code. 

 

Transfer of personal data to Law Enforcement Authorities (Letter to WADA of 5th 
March 2013) 
With regard to transfers made  from an EU ADO to the  ADAMS database,  as they take place  in the 
context  of  the  adequacy  decision  with  Canada  concerning  the  PIPEDA  (and  subsequent  onward 
transfers to foreign law enforcement authorities or disclosures in the context of the laws governing 
access  by  law  enforcement  or  national  security  authorities),  the  EDPB  recalls  that  this  adequacy 
decision shall remain in force until amended, replaced or repealed, if necessary, by a new Commission 
Decision  as  provided  for  under  the  GDPR  (Article  45.9). Provided that the outcome  of the  ongoing 
assessment of the adequacy decision in question confirms that the level of protection ensured by the 
PIPEDA  is  adequate,  also  in  relation  to  onward  transfers  and  to  access  to  these  data  by  public 
authorities, notably for law enforcement and national security authorities, the EDPB is of the view that 
transfers taking place on this basis will continue to be valid. 

As to the conditions under which the disclosure of data by ADO’s/WADA to Third Parties is authorised, 
the EDPB notes that such disclosures within the same legal framework are subject to the applicable 
national laws and regulations, as it is further explained in the comment accompanying Article 8.3. c) of 
the ISSPI. In view of the importance of that condition, it would thus seem to be preferable to clarify 
this aspect in the Art. 8.3 c ISPPI, rather than in the comment.  

Also, Art. 8.3 c) ISPPI  does not specify whether the "criminal offence" or the "breach of professional 
conduct rules" must be qualified as doping or at least be doping-related, or whether it is any "criminal 
offence" or "breach of professional conduct rules". As mentioned in Art. 29 WP’s letter to WADA of 
5th March 2013, we are of the opinion that it cannot be any criminal offence or breach of professional 
conduct rules, and that they have to be closely linked to doping. These limitations should be added to 
the text. 

 

 

9 

