Decision

Diary no

2020-12-10

DI-2019-9432

Umeå University
901 87 Umeå

Supervision according to the data protection regulation - Umeå
university's processing of personal data
Table of Contents
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision................................................... ..................................... 2
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ............................ 3
Background................................................. ................................................... ......... 3
What emerged in the case................................................ .......................... 3
The police authority's letter................................................... ......................... 3
Information from Umeå University................................................... ................... 4
Justification of decision................................................... .............................................. 7
Applicable rules................................................ ................................................ 7
Responsibilities of the personal data controller................................................ ........... 7
Legal basis................................................ ................................................ 8
The requirement for security when processing personal data................................... 9
Obligation to report and document personal data incidents....... 10
Transfer of personal data to third countries............................................ 12
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ....................... 12
Personal data responsibility................................................... ................................... 12
Processing of personal data in unencrypted e-mail and open networks.......... 12
The personal data incident should have been documented and reported........... 14
Storage of sensitive personal data in a cloud service in a third country........... 15
Choice of intervention................................................... .............................................. 20
Legal regulation................................................ ........................................ 20
The size of the penalty fee................................................... .......................... 20

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

Page 1 of 23

1 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

How to appeal............................................... ............................................. 23

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that Umeå University


have sent sensitive and privacy-sensitive personal data through
unencrypted e-mail and via open network to the Police Authority on 5
February 2019. The university has therefore processed personal data in
conflict with article 5.1 f and article 32.1 and 32.2 i
the data protection regulation1 by not having taken appropriate technical measures
measures to ensure a level of security that is appropriate i
relation to the risk.



have not reported the personal data incident to the Swedish Data Protection Authority and
did not document the circumstances surrounding the incident then
the university was drawn to it. The university therefore has
acted in violation of article 33.1 and 33.5 of the data protection regulation.



when processing sensitive and privacy-sensitive personal data
in the Box cloud service, between May 25, 2018 and spring 2019, not
has taken appropriate technical and organizational measures to
prevent unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to
the personal data. The university has therefore treated
personal data in violation of Article 5.1 f and Article 32.1 and 32.2 i
data protection regulation.

Administrative penalty fee
Datainspektionen decides with the support of articles 58.2 and 83 i
data protection regulation and ch. 6 Section 2 of the Data Protection Act (2018:218) to Umeå
university must pay an administrative sanction fee of SEK 550,000.

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
1

Page 2 of 23

2 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

Account of the supervisory matter
Background
The Swedish Data Protection Authority started supervision of Umeå University on 29 August 2019.
The inspectorate had received information that the university sent sensitive
personal information to the Police Authority via unencrypted e-mail. To
the information was attached to the Police Authority's letter; Information about
deficiencies in the handling of documents.
The purpose of the supervision is to investigate whether the personal data processing which
described in the Police Authority's letter meets the requirements for security which
set out in articles 5.1.f and 32 of the data protection regulation.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has also reviewed whether Umeå University has complied
the provision in article 33 of the data protection regulation, which among other things
is about the personal data controller's notification obligation in the event of a
personal data incident.
Furthermore, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has investigated the handling of sensitive data
personal data in the Box cloud service made in accordance with
the data protection regulations.
The Data Inspectorate's supervision starts from 25 May 2018 then
the data protection regulation began to be applied. The inspection has therefore not
reviewed the incident that occurred before this date.
The supervision has been carried out through written communication.
What emerged in the case
The police authority's letter
The Police Authority's letter states, among other things, the following.
A research group at Umeå University requested all of them
preliminary investigation report concerning rape against men in Sweden from 2014.
On 18 July 2016, the Swedish Police Agency handed out the documents via courier.

Page 3 of 23

3 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

In connection with a request for completion via email attached
research team, on November 19, 2017, inadvertently one of the
preliminary investigation report previously released by the Police Authority. The police authority then contacted the research group and pointed out the inappropriateness of
to send sensitive material over unprotected email channels. The research group
regretted the incident and referred to the human factor.
In connection with another request for completion attached
the research group, on February 5, 2019, again the same
preliminary investigation report. When the Police Authority once again contacted
the research group about this admitted that this time also unintentionally
attached the sensitive material in an email.
Information from Umeå University
Umeå University was responsible for personal data when the emails were sent to
The police authority.
The principal researcher left his employment at Umeå University
on 31 August 2018 for employment at Uppsala University. In that the
the principal researcher changed employer and workplace has the project
also changed residence. However, this took place after the current events.
The financier Forte2 made a decision to change the principal on March 13, 2019 and
The ethics review authority approved the change, which involved the replacement of
head of research to Uppsala University on 10 May 2019.
The research project at Umeå University has been approved by
The ethics review authority and the preliminary investigation protocols have been received
and stored based on a public interest that allows
personal data processing.
The sequence of events
In August 2016, the research team received the preliminary investigation protocols which
requested. The documents were sent in paper form to Umeå University.
All police reports and preliminary investigation reports from 2014
was scanned in and stored on a password-protected file area. A physical version
was locked in a file room. The preliminary investigation protocols contain information
2

The Research Council for Health, Working Life and Welfare.

Page 4 of 23

4 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

about, among other things, suspicion of crime, name, social security number and
contact details. In addition, these protocols contain information about
sexual life and health, i.e. sensitive personal data.
In a request for supplementation made in 2017, the intention was not to
attach the minutes among the other documents sent to
The police authority. After what happened, the research group has, among other things, introduced
a routine about scanning sensitive material separately.
The research group has not been able to explain why the group, on February 5, 2019,
once again attached the protocol in an email to the Police Authority.
Security when sending the preliminary investigation reports
The incorrect handling has been limited to two occasions. Otherwise have
the project's routines to lock up physical documents, to separate administrative ones
documents from research data and to password protect digital documents
followed. Only two researchers from the university have had access to the material in question
the material.
The university has regulations and instructions to ensure, among other things
that the processing of personal data at the university complies with the requirements set out in
Article 32 of the Data Protection Regulation. Since 2014, the university has had a clear
rule that sensitive personal data may not be sent by e-mail, in accordance
with the document E-mail service at Umeå University. Employees get
continuous training and information on the subject. The university also plans
to direct a special information effort on the processing of personal data i
e-mail to all employees at the university.
The university has made a mistake by sending sensitive
personal data via e-mail to the Police Authority.
The personal data processing in question cannot therefore be said to meet those requirements
which is asked about appropriate security measures according to Article 32 i
data protection regulation.
The personal data incident
Umeå University became aware that sensitive personal data had been sent
by e-mail in connection with the authority receiving the Data Inspectorate's
supervisory letter, 30 August 2019.

Page 5 of 23

5 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

On September 2, 2019, the university performed an analysis of the events and
then concluded that it was unlikely that the personal data incident would
come to entail a risk for those registered. The university has
documented the events in the Data Inspectorate's form for notification of
personal data incident. In the form, the university has stated, among other things
following.
The university has assessed that no notification should be sent to the Data Protection Authority. (…) On the 2nd
September a registered letter was received from the Data Inspectorate containing information about
the incidents. Umeå University's assessment is that it is unlikely that the incident caused
high risk to individuals' freedoms and rights. There is no indication that any have arisen
actual damage or that someone unauthorized has access to the information when the protocol in question has
sent to the authority that established the same and to the administrator who had the task
to handle and disclose the same type of data to the university.

Storage and access in the Box cloud service
The university has scanned 108 preliminary investigation reports from 2014 which
saved locally on a personal computer and then uploaded to
the cloud service provider Box.
The user can access the data stored in Box by logging in
in via a web interface internally via the university's network with
single factor authentication (that is, username and password).
It is also possible to log in externally via the internet on the university's website
umu.se. The login then takes place via any equipment/network. The user states
first their email address and then their college ID (username) and
password.
User accounts in Box are integrated and linked to university IDs such as i
in turn are integrated towards SWAMID. With SWAMID a safe is obtained
identification because passwords are neither saved nor sent to Box.
The authentication takes place before, by sending a "ticket" to Box as
confirms the authorization.
All communications are encrypted with 256-bit SSL encryption (https).
All information is stored with 256-bit encryption. This means that
the information is not available if someone without authorization were to gain access

Page 6 of 23

6 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

to it. Even backups are encrypted. Box stores the encryption keys separately
from the data.
The research project includes two researchers and it is only the two who have had
permissions and access to the file space provided by Box. Since
access has been limited, no special procedures have been established.
The university has a personal data processing agreement with SUNET (Swedish
University computer network) which, among other things, concerns the storage of
the preliminary investigation records. SUNET, in turn, has engaged the assistant Box.
Box stores the information in the United States and is affiliated with the Privacy Shield and has
signed binding corporate regulations.
The preliminary investigation protocols are covered by confidentiality according to ch. 35 § 1 and 11
Cape. Section 3 of the Publicity and Confidentiality Act (2009:400), OSL. Starting point
is thus that confidentiality applies to the data.
Information that sensitive personal data should not be stored in Box has
published on the university's intranet in September 2016.
Universities have made the assessment that there are legal and
security conditions for storing sensitive as well as
confidential information in Box. However, the university has in connection with its
risk and vulnerability analysis for precautionary reasons judged that this should not happen.
The university has assessed that the file surface maintains a satisfactory level of security.
The assessment has been based on security measures such as access, access and
authorization assignment and security in communication.

Justification of decisions
Applicable rules
The responsibility of the person in charge of personal data
The Data Protection Regulation is the primary legal regulation for processing
of personal data.

Page 7 of 23

7 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

The personal data controller is responsible for being able to demonstrate that they
the basic principles of Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation are followed (Article
5.2).
The personal data controller is responsible for implementing appropriate technical
and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that
the processing is carried out in accordance with the data protection regulation. The actions shall
carried out taking into account the nature, scope and context of the treatment
and purpose as well as the risks, of varying degree of probability and seriousness, for
liberties and rights of natural persons. The measures must be reviewed and updated
if necessary. This is apparent from Article 24.1 of the data protection regulation.
Legal basis
Article 6 of the data protection regulation states the following.
A treatment is only legal if one of the specified conditions in the article is
fulfilled (point 1).
A treatment is legal if it is necessary to carry out a task of
public interest (point 1 e). Research purposes are considered a task of
general interest.
The task of public interest must be determined in accordance with Union law
or national law (point 3). For state universities and colleges are
the research task established in ch. 1 the Higher Education Act (1992: 1434).
As a general rule, it is prohibited to process sensitive personal data, to
for example personal data about health and sexual life. However, there are a number
exception to the prohibition in Article 9.2 of the Data Protection Regulation. Of article 9.2 j
in the data protection regulation it follows that the processing must be necessary for
research purposes and must be subject to appropriate safeguards for it
data subject's rights and freedoms in accordance with Article 89.1 i
data protection regulation.
Furthermore, the exception to this prohibition requires national law to contain
provisions on appropriate and specific measures to ensure it
data subject's personal integrity. In the Ethics Review Act3 such is determined
3

The Act (2003:460) on ethical review.

Page 8 of 23

8 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

appropriate and special action required in the treatment of sensitive
personal data for research purposes. Also regulations on confidentiality in
OSL is an example of such an appropriate and special measure.
Article 89.1 of the data protection regulation specifies special conditions for processing
of personal data for research purposes. It states that
the processing shall be subject to appropriate safeguards in accordance with
the regulation.
The requirement for security when processing personal data
A fundamental principle for the processing of personal data is the requirement to
security according to article 5.1 f of the data protection regulation, which states that
the personal data must be processed in a way that ensures appropriate
security of the personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unauthorized access
treatment and against loss, destruction or accidental damage,
using appropriate technical or organizational measures.
It follows from Article 32.1 of the data protection regulation that it
the personal data controller and the personal data assistant must take appropriate measures
technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security
which is appropriate in relation to the risk of the treatment. That too
taking into account recent developments, implementation costs and
the nature, scope, context and purpose of the processing and the risks, of
varying degrees of probability and seriousness, for the rights of natural persons and
freedoms.
When assessing the appropriate security level, special consideration must be given to them
risks that the processing entails, in particular from accidental or illegal
destruction, loss or alteration or to unauthorized disclosure by or unauthorized
access to the personal data transferred, stored or otherwise
treated. This is apparent from Article 32.2 of the data protection regulation.
Recital 75 of the data protection regulation states that various factors must be taken into account when
the assessment of the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. Among
other mentions of personal data subject to confidentiality, information about
health or sex life. Furthermore, consideration must be given to whether the treatment applies
personal data about vulnerable natural persons, especially children, or about
the processing involves a large number of personal data and applies to a large
number of registrants.

Page 9 of 23

9 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

Recitals 39 and 83 also provide guidance on the more detailed meaning of
the data protection regulation's requirements for security when processing
personal data.
If the personal data controller hires a personal data assistant to
carry out a treatment, the person in charge of personal data shall only engage
personal data assistants who provide sufficient guarantees to implement
appropriate technical and organizational measures. It must happen in such a way
that the processing meets the requirements of the data protection regulation and that it
data subject's rights are protected. This is apparent from Article 28.1 and Recital 81 i
data protection regulation. These provisions also state how the relationship
between the personal data controller and the personal data assistant must be regulated.
Obligation to report and document personal data incidents
According to Article 4.12 of the Data Protection Regulation, a personal data incident is a
security incident leading to accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or
alteration or to unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to them
personal data transferred, stored or otherwise processed. According to
Article 29 Group Guidance WP2504 may unauthorized or illegal
processing includes the disclosure of personal data (or access to
these) to recipients who are not authorized to receive (or access)
the data, or any other form of processing that is contrary to
data protection regulation.
Article 33.1 of the data protection regulation states that it
personal data controller, in the event of a personal data incident, must report
the incident to the regulatory authority without undue delay, and if so
possible no later than 72 hours after becoming aware of it. If it is
unlikely that the personal data incident poses a risk to natural persons
rights and freedoms, it does not need to be notified. About one
personal data controller does not act quickly and it becomes obvious that a

Article 29 - Working Party on Data Protection, WP250rev.01; Guidelines on notification of
personal data incidents according to Regulation (EU) 2016/679; adopted on 3 October 2017; last
reviewed and adopted on February 6, 2018; adopted by the European Data Protection Board, EDPB,
during the first plenary session on 25 May 2018; pp. 11–12. The working group was established
under Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC and was an independent EU advisory body on issues
concerning data protection and privacy.
4

Page 10 of 23

1 0 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

incident has taken place, this can be considered a failure to act in
in accordance with Article 335.
The following is stated in recital 85.
A personal data incident that is not quickly remedied in an appropriate manner can for natural persons
lead to physical, material or immaterial damage, such as loss of control over one's own
the personal data or to limit their rights, discrimination, identity theft
or fraud, financial loss, unauthorized cancellation of pseudonymisation, damaged reputation,
loss of confidentiality in respect of personal data subject to non-disclosure, or
to other financial or social disadvantage for the natural person concerned. As soon as one
personal data controller becomes aware that a personal data incident has occurred, it should
personal data controller therefore report the personal data incident to the supervisory authority
without undue delay and, if possible, within 72 hours of becoming aware
this, unless the personal data controller, in accordance with the responsibility principle, can demonstrate that
it is unlikely that the personal data incident will pose a risk to physical
rights and freedoms of persons.

According to the Article 29 Working Party, a data controller shall be deemed to have received
knowledge of the incident when the data controller is reasonably certain
that a security incident has taken place which has resulted in personal data
compromised. The personal data controller must, according to the data protection regulation,
take all appropriate technical protective measures and all appropriate organizational ones
measures to immediately determine whether a personal data incident has occurred
room and promptly inform the supervisory authority and the data subjects.
Recital 87 of the data protection regulation states the importance of being able to determine a
incident, assess the risk to individuals and then report the incident if so
is required.
Article 33.5 of the data protection regulation regulates the obligation to
document personal data incidents. The personal data controller shall
document all personal data incidents, regardless of whether the incident should
reported to the Swedish Data Protection Authority or not. The documentation must contain
information about the circumstances surrounding the personal data incident, its
effects and the corrective measures taken. The documentation must
enable the regulatory authority to check compliance with
Article 33 of the Data Protection Regulation.

5

WP250, rev01, p. 13.

Page 11 of 23

1 1 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

The documentation obligation in Article 33.5 is also linked
the liability in Article 5.2 of the Data Protection Regulation, that is to say that
the personal data controller must be responsible for and be able to demonstrate that they
the basic principles of data protection are complied with. There is also one
connection between Article 33.5 and the provision on the responsibility for
personal data controller according to Article 24 of the data protection regulation.6
It can be added that it appears from the Article 29 group's guidelines that the
personal data controllers need to have routines to detect and remedy
incidents relating to personal data, which is the meaning of Article 33.5.
In addition, it appears that the ability to quickly detect, remedy and report
an incident should be viewed as important features of the appropriate technical and
organizational measures specified in Article 32 of the Data Protection Regulation.
Transfer of personal data to third countries
In chapter V of the data protection regulation, the possibilities available to
transfer personal data to a third country (a country outside the EEA).
Personal data may be transferred if the European Commission has decided that it
there is an adequate level of protection in the recipient country or if there is otherwise
appropriate protective measures, for example through contractual clauses or binding
corporate regulations.7
For reasons 101 and 116 of the data protection regulation, the risk is emphasized when
personal data is transferred to countries outside the Union and the importance of
the level of protection does not become lower in such transfers. This applies in particular in
ask about the protection against unauthorized use or unauthorized disclosure of
this information. Furthermore, the personal data controller's and
the personal data officer's responsibility to ensure that the regulation is followed.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
Personal data responsibility
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that Umeå University is
personal data controller for the processing of personal data that

6
7

WP250, rev01, p. 28.
See articles 44-50 of the data protection regulation.

Page 12 of 23

1 2 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

updated in the case until the project was transferred to Uppsala
university in the spring of 2019.
Processing of personal data in unencrypted e-mail and open networks
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that Umeå University, within the framework of
research project, has sent a preliminary investigation report concerning
rapes against men in an unencrypted e-mail over an open network to
The police authority. Something that the university has also admitted.
The preliminary examination protocol contains information about health and sexual life
which are sensitive personal data. Processing of sensitive personal data can
pose significant risks to personal integrity and are therefore required
strong protection when processing such data.
The preliminary investigation report also contains information about suspicion
about crimes and social security numbers that are so-called privacy-sensitive
personal data. The processing of this type of personal data is therefore off
such that the data must have strong protection. This means that if these
personal data is sent by e-mail it must be protected in such a way that
unauthorized persons cannot take part in them. The personal data can, for example
protected by encryption.
Sending information by unencrypted e-mail means that even others than it
the intended recipient can access the information in the e-mail message. Thus
does not ensure that only the intended recipient takes part
the personal data.
The university has also sent the personal data via an open network. One
open network, for example the Internet, is characterized by the fact that others can take part
information that is communicated online. This means that unauthorized persons have been able to
access the personal data transferred by the university.
As a personal data controller, Umeå University must ensure that the technical and
the organizational measures ensure a level of security that is appropriate in
relation to the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons which
the processing entails (Article 32.1). The personal data processed must
for example, protected against unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized access.
What is the appropriate level of security varies in relation to the risks,
the nature, scope, context and purpose of the treatment. At

Page 13 of 23

1 3 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

the assessment must therefore, for example, take into account what type it is
personal data that is processed.8
The university must identify the possible risks to the registrants
rights and freedoms and assess the likelihood of the risks occurring
and the consequences in such cases.
In this case, it is a matter of sensitive as well as privacy sensitive
personal data. Processing this type of data requires a strong
protection based on the nature of the treatment.
Overall, the Data Protection Authority finds that Umeå University has processed
personal data in violation of the data protection regulation by the university
have not taken appropriate technical security measures to protect
the personal data in the e-mail based on the sensitivity of the data and
how they were communicated unencrypted over an open network. The treatment therefore has
occurred in violation of Article 5.1 f and Article 32.1 and 32.2 i
data protection regulation.
The personal data incident should have been documented and reported
According to Umeå University, the university became aware of sensitive
personal data sent via unencrypted e-mail because the university
received the Data Inspection Authority's supervisory letter on 30 August 2019. According to
the university also documented the incident, on September 2, 2019, i
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's form for reporting a personal data incident.
With regard to the knowledge of the incident, the Data Inspectorate notes that by
The police authority's letter dated April 3, 2019, states that
The police authority, when contacting the university, pointed out the inappropriateness of that
send sensitive personal data via unencrypted email. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
therefore assesses that the university must have become aware of the person in question
the incident before August 30, 2019 and at least by April 3, 2019.
With regard to the documentation, the Data Inspectorate thus finds that
the university did not document the circumstances surrounding
the personal data incident immediately after becoming aware of it. This
makes it difficult to check compliance with Article 33 i
8

See reasons 75 and 76 of the data protection regulation.

Page 14 of 23

1 4 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

data protection regulation. That the university has subsequently filled in
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's form for notification of a personal data incident is changing
not the assessment that the university should have documented the incident already
when the Police Agency contacted the university.
Furthermore, the Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the university has not entered
with a notification of a personal data incident to the Data Inspectorate. According to
the university it was because it was unlikely that the incident would
entail a high risk for the freedoms and rights of individuals. The Swedish Data Protection Authority wants
underline that there is always a risk that unauthorized persons can take part
the personal data if they are sent unencrypted via an open network. As
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has previously stated that the mailing applies to both sensitive and
privacy-sensitive personal data. The risk of the data subject's freedom and
rights is therefore high if this type of personal data is processed on a
in such a way that, for example, they are used by unauthorized persons.
Overall, the Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that Umeå University has failed to do so
to act in accordance with article 33.1 and 33.5 of the data protection regulation.
Storage of sensitive personal data in a cloud service in a third country
Umeå University has used the cloud service Box to store 108
preliminary investigation report concerning rape against men.
A cloud service is an internet-based IT service provided by an external
supplier. The service may include storage but also other functions, there
these are wholly or partially located outside the company's internal operations
IT environment9. In this case, the storage is outside the university's internal IT environment. Umeå University uses the personal data assistant SUNET
the assistant Box.
The Data Protection Regulation not only requires that it
personal data controller must ensure appropriate security for
the personal data. The regulation also requires that it
the personal data controller ensures that the personal data assistant complies with such
security level when processing personal data for it
account of the personal data controller.

For further definitions see Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, 01037/12/EN WP
196, Opinion 05/2012 on Cloud Computing.
9

Page 15 of 23

1 5 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

The person in charge of personal data is also responsible for the person who
the personal data assistant, in turn, meets the requirements of
data protection regulation.
Box is supplied by an American company that stores the information in the USA.
According to the university, Box was affiliated with Privacy Shield and had signed
binding corporate regulations.
Personal data may be transferred to third countries only if the conditions in chapter V i
the data protection regulation are met. It applies provided that the
the personal data controller and the personal data assistant can ensure that the
level of protection that the regulation provides to natural persons is not undermined.
According to a decision from the EU Commission10, it has been allowed for
personal data controllers in the EU to transfer personal data to recipients who
has joined the Privacy Shield.
In the so-called Schrems II case11 from July 16, 2020, however, assessed
The European Court of Justice that the Privacy Shield agreement between the EU and the US does not provide
adequate protection for personal data when these are transferred to the United States. The
means that it is no longer permitted for personal data controllers in the EU to
with the support of Privacy Shield transfer personal data to the United States.
The Schrems II target may also affect transfers of
personal data that takes place with the help of binding company regulations. The
as the legislation of a third country may affect the protection provided
through these regulations. The European Court of Justice has determined that it is
personal data controller who must assess the level of protection required according to
EU legislation is followed in the third country concerned.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that Umeå University stopped processing
the current personal data in the Box cloud service in the spring of 2019. That was then
according to the EU Commission's decision allowed to transfer personal data to the USA
with the support of Privacy Shield. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore remains current
Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/1250 of 12 July 2016 pursuant to
Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on whether adequate protection is ensured
through the EU and US Privacy Shield.
11 Case C-311/18 – Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland and Maximillian
Schrems.
10

Page 16 of 23

1 6 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

case to establish that Box is said to have been connected to Privacy Shield
at that time and that the treatment at the university ended before
The Schrems II goal.
Except that the person in charge of personal data must have support to transfer
personal data to third countries, the personal data controller is also responsible
because the personal data assistant processes the data in a way that
ensures appropriate security.
That personal data, like the personal data assistant, is located in a third country
may increase the risk that natural persons cannot exercise their
data protection rights, in particular to protect against unauthorized
use or unauthorized disclosure of this information.12
In this case, it is a matter of information that is protected by confidentiality.
In order to be able to process sensitive personal data, the data protection regulation sets
requirement that the national law must contain provisions on appropriate
and special measures. The provisions on confidentiality to protect it
individual is such regulation that protects the privacy of individuals during handling
of public documents.13 This means that secrecy is a
privacy protection measure as the personal data controller and
the personal data assistant has to follow. When the personal data is stored with a
actor who is not covered by confidentiality, it means a weaker privacy protection
for the data, because a statutory duty of confidentiality which is
penally sanctioned provides stronger protection than an agreed confidentiality obligation.14
Because Box is an actor that is not covered by OSL, the personal data receives a
weaker privacy protections.
There are also technical weaknesses in the chosen storage.
In order to access the preliminary investigation records in Box, the university has
used a so-called single factor authentication. In this case, university ID
(username and password.

12
13
14

Cf. reasons 101 and 116 of the data protection regulation.
See the bill New Data Protection Act (prop. 2017/18:105 p. 116).
JO's decision on 9 September 2014, dnr 3032-2011.

Page 17 of 23

1 7 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

The authentication is used so that the personal data controller can see
to ensure that only authorized users have access to personal data.
Single factor authentication is a weak form of authentication. The risk that someone
can get access to usernames and passwords is great. Moreover, it is not
certain that the person who has been robbed will discover that this has happened
if someone comes across username and password through for example so
called phishing.
A stronger authentication should make it harder for unauthorized people to get over them
necessary login information needed to authenticate.
Stronger authentication can be achieved by using more than one
factor (something you know, something you have and something you are). For example, can
"something you know" can be a username or password, "something you have" can
be a smart card or mobile phone and "something you are" can be one
fingerprints or facial features.
The user can access the data stored in Box by logging in
in via a web interface internally via the university's network with
single factor authentication (that is, username and password). The
can also be logged in externally via the internet on the university's website umu.se.
The login then takes place via any equipment and any network and the user
first enter their email address and then their college ID (username)
and password (that is, with single-factor authentication).
Because access to the current data can take place via the open network is
the exposure area to unauthorized persons is very large, which means that the risk of
the data comes to unauthorized parties increases.
Umeå University has stated that the communication and storage of
the information in the preliminary investigation protocols has been encrypted in Box.
However, the Swedish Data Protection Authority does not consider this to mean that the data is
adequately protected against unauthorized access. For example, it can illegally
come across username and password impersonate authorized and thus
take part in the information in plain text.
As previously stated, the personal data controller must ensure a suitable
safety in relation to the risk of the treatment. It also applies when

Page 18 of 23

1 8 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

the personal data is processed by a personal data assistant. The
Personal data controllers must therefore make an assessment of the risks that
may occur in connection with the treatment. When the personal data controller
processes personal data in a cloud service, the person responsible needs to implement
a suitability assessment that includes a risk analysis. In this way, it gets
personal data controller a basis to be able to make decisions about which
appropriate technical and organizational measures that are needed or should be
required by the personal data officer. It also provides the personal data controller
an opportunity to ensure a level of security that is appropriate.
When assessing the level of security in the storage and transfer of
special consideration must be given to personal data if the processing entails a risk of
unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized access.
Umeå University has stated that the university in connection with its risk and
vulnerability analysis assessed that sensitive personal data should not be stored in Box
for precautionary reasons. This information was published on the university's website
intranet in September 2016. Despite that, the university scanned in
the preliminary investigation reports and stored them in Box.
The preliminary investigation protocols concern rapes against men and the personal data
in them are both sensitive and privacy sensitive. The data is covered
also of confidentiality. The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment is that the processing of
this type of personal data poses a high risk to the privacy of individuals
if the personal data is disclosed or if an unauthorized person gains access to it.
The treatment is therefore of such a nature that it requires a high degree of security.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that there has been a question of processing of
personal data in a cloud service in the United States that is not covered by the regulations
in OSL, and that security has not been high enough to prevent
unauthorized access to the data. In addition, the Swedish Data Protection Authority states
that the university assessed in 2016 that the processing of sensitive personal data
in Box was not suitable.
In summary, the Data Inspectorate finds that Umeå University does not have
taken appropriate technical and organizational measures to prevent
unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to the sensitive and
the privacy-sensitive personal data stored in Box. The university has
thereby not ensuring a level of security that is appropriate in relation to

Page 19 of 23

1 9 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

the risk of processing the personal data at issue in the case.
Umeå University has thus processed the personal data in violation of
article 5.1 f and article 32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation.
Choice of intervention
Legal regulation
In the event of violations of the data protection regulation, the Data Protection Authority has a number
corrective powers, including reprimand, injunction and
penalty fees. It follows from Article 58.2 a–j of the data protection regulation.
The Data Inspection Authority shall impose penalty fees in addition to or instead of
other corrective measures referred to in Article 58(2), depending
the circumstances of each individual case.
The Member States may determine rules for whether and to what extent
administrative penalty fees may be imposed on public authorities.
This is apparent from Article 83.7 of the regulation. Sweden has in accordance with this
decided that the Data Inspectorate should be allowed to collect sanction fees from authorities.
For violations of, among other things, articles 32 and 33, the fee shall amount to
a maximum of SEK 5,000,000. For violations of, among other things, Article 5 i
regulation, the fee must amount to a maximum of SEK 10,000,000. It appears from
6 ch. Section 2 of the Data Protection Act and Article 83.4 and 83.5 i
data protection regulation.
If a personal data controller or a personal data assistant, with respect
on one and the same or connected data processing, intentionally
or negligently violates several of the provisions of this regulation
the total amount of the administrative penalty fee may not exceed that
amount determined for the most serious infringement. It appears from
article 83.3 of the data protection regulation.
Each supervisory authority must ensure that the imposition of administrative
penalty charges in each case is effective, proportionate and
deterrent. It is stated in article 83.1 of the data protection regulation.
Article 83(2) sets out the factors to be taken into account in deciding whether a
administrative penalty fee shall be imposed, but also what shall affect
the amount of the penalty fee.

Page 20 of 23

2 0 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

The size of the penalty fee
The university has sent a preliminary investigation protocol with personal data
about, among other things, health, sexual life and suspicion of crime via unencrypted e-mail and through the open network. The personal data processed are both
sensitive and privacy-sensitive and subject to regulations on
secrecy.
The police agency sent the information to the university via courier, as it should
made the university aware of the data's protective value. Despite this
failed the University to take appropriate technical security measures.
The personal data was thus not protected from the risk of being exposed to among
other unauthorized disclosure and unauthorized access. The Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that
no other assessment can be made than that the violation occurred through
negligence.
In addition, Umeå University has stored a large number, 108 pieces,
preliminary investigation protocols with sensitive and privacy-sensitive
personal data in the Box cloud service. This without the university guaranteeing it
an appropriate level of security to be able to store this type of personal data in
Box. The university thus failed to take appropriate measures in this part as well
technical security measures. The University also did not ensure that
the personal data was covered by such appropriate organizational measures
as required by data protection regulations.
Contrary to its own risk and vulnerability analysis, the university stored them
sensitive personal data in Box. The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers this to be a
factor that must be taken into account when assessing the size of the penalty fee.
Furthermore, the university has failed to report the personal data incident which
arose when the e-mail message was sent to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Nor
were documented the circumstances surrounding the incident when the university became
drew attention to it.
Against this background, the Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that Umeå University through
the relevant personal data processing has violated Article 5.1 f, Article
32.1 and 32.2 and article 33.1 and 33.5 of the data protection regulation.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore believes that Umeå University should be charged
administrative penalty fees for said violations.

Page 21 of 23

2 1 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the processing via e-mail and the storage in
Box refers to two connected data processing according to Article 83.3 i
data protection regulation. This is because the treatments are the same
personal data within a research project and refers to a breach of the same
regulations, i.e. article 5.1 f and 32.1 and 32.2 of the regulation.
When determining the size of the penalty fee, the Data Protection Authority takes into account
circumstances stated above and that the administrative penalty fee
must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. That Umeå University does not
have met the security requirements is serious when it comes to personal data
of such a type that the data requires strong protection based on the processing
species.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority decides based on an overall assessment that Umeå
university must pay an administrative penalty fee totaling 550,000
crowns. For the sending in the e-mail message and the storage in the cloud service Box
the university must pay a fee of SEK 450,000. For the university's
failure to report the personal data incident to the Data Inspectorate
and for not having documented the incident, the university must pay a fee
of SEK 100,000.
This decision has been made by the director general Lena Lindgren Schelin after
presentation by lawyer Linda Hamidi. When handling the case has
lawyer Caroline Cruz Julander participated. At the final processing
the unit managers Katarina Tullstedt and Malin Blixt and IT security specialists Johan Ma and Ulrika Sundling participated.

Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2020-12-10 (This is an electronic signature)

Appendix
Information on payment of penalty fee.
Copy for information
The data protection officer.

Page 22 of 23

2 2 (23)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-9432

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

Page 23 of 23

2 3 (23)

