1/12

 Procedure No.: PS/00044/2020

938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In the sanctioning procedure PS/044/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to A.A.A., with NIF: ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, “the person
claimed"), by virtue of the complaint filed by B.B.B., (hereinafter, "the
claimant"), and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 07/28/19, you had a written entry to this Agency, submitted by
B.B.B., (hereinafter, "the claimant"), in which it stated, among others, the following:

"By going to the notary's office to request a copy of the deed of my house, without informing the
In this regard, they scanned my ID. When asked about how they protected that document,
They told me that they did not have the information but that they took my data and
they would call I wanted to know about the security measures they applied
because, if they had informed me, I would have given them a black and white photocopy. Two
months and a half later, since they had not contacted me, I sent them an email, in the
that they already show me the informative clauses, but they still do not inform me of how
They keep my ID. For security reasons, I do not like to have copies of my ID scanned at
good resolution and in color, so because they hadn't given me that
information, I insisted on it. They sent me to their DPD, with whom I have exchanged
emails, but ended up telling me that it was not necessary to inform me based on
to article 32 of Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the prevention of money laundering
capitals”.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, on 10/18/19, an information request is addressed
to the requested person.

THIRD: On 11/07/19, this Agency received a letter from the Delegate of
Data Protection of the claimed Notary, in which, among others, it indicates:

“On August 7, 2018, the claimant went to the notarial office to
request a copy of the protocol of the former notary of that city, ***NOTARIO.1.
That on December 7, 2011, as a result of the retirement of the
was a notary of this city ***NOTARIO.1, Mr. ***NOTARIO.2 received the
notarial protocol of the first for safekeeping.

That, not having the claimant's DNI scanned, it was considered appropriate to carry out
its scan in accordance with money laundering legislation. For this, it was taken into
consideration the fact that it was an economic operation of the protocol to
charge of Mr. ***NOTARIO.2 of which there was no identification document.

That the complainant expressed his discrepancy regarding the tariff applied by placing a
claim for the invoice issued (Doc1) before the Consumption service of the Board of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

Andalusia (Doc2). The professional services invoice includes the data
basic information on data protection for the activity of the notarial office.

That on October 31, 2018, this notarial office provided the claimant
additional information on data protection in relation to merited activity (doc3).

That in subsequent communications he stated that he was against the scanning of his
DNI or consider that they should be aware of the security measures applied:
“…you must carry out a risk analysis or an EIPD and determine it, depending on its criticality.
This gives me little confidence in the measures in place, which is why you requested
information",

That subsequently, and after several calls from the claimant, the incident was reported
to the Data Protection Delegate of this notarial office.

That the DPD by email dated December 18, 2018 (doc5) requested
Specify the request for rights exercised by the claimant. The claimant does not
answered, so the DPD reminded him on January 14, 2019 (doc6) that
The term of the procedure was extended by two more months to be able to attend to his request.
petition.

That same day, the claimant answers alleging that "what I ask is the verification of
that said information was provided to me” (doc7).

That with all of the above and having fulfilled the Notarial Office with the duty of
information regarding customer activity, it was considered necessary to focus the
issue in the activity of money laundering. Consequently, the DPD reported
to the claimant dated February 7 (doc8) on the special circumstances
that have these treatments and therefore the impossibility of attending to your request.
Subsequently, on February 11, he was informed again (doc9-10).

On the control measures applied in this Notarial Office: They accept the
ISO 27001 standard. However, in relation to the Activities Register and its
legitimacy in the treatment the following measures have been adopted:

A.18 Compliance
A.18.1 Compliance with legal and contractual requirements: RGPD: Control Measures
1. Activity Log
2. Data Protection Delegate
3. DPD notification to the Data Protection Agency.
4. Legitimation of the treatment (yes, we inform or not)
5. Protocol exercise of the GDPR right

Consequently, and based on the request for information, we state that, on the date
On June 11, 2018, a Data Protection Audit was carried out. What
As a result of the same, the consequent recommendations were formalized to
comply with the above obligations.

Consequently, the following measures were adopted: The Register of
Activities that include, among others, a. Clients b. money laundering

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

 
In view of the nature of the Public Authority of Notaries and based on article 37.1 a)
of the European Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 was designated Dpd and
communicated to the Registry of the Spanish Data Protection Agency (Doc1).

It was agreed to implement legends for the purpose of complying with the duty of information
of article 13 of the European Regulation 2016/679. 4. A procedure was established
management of RGPD rights in the Notarial Office.

The measures were reviewed on March 19, 2019. It was agreed
recommendations to correct the deficiencies found and improve the due
implantation. A data protection legend is included in the invoices for the reason
of the “customers” activity.

The claimant was sent a copy of the additional information dated October 31
of 2018, in relation to customer activity and was informed and explained the
specific circumstances arising from the processing of data for the activity "money laundering
of Capitals” and therefore the exclusion of the duty of information.

 : In view of the reported facts, the documentation provided by
FOURTH
 
the parties and in accordance with the evidence available, the Inspection of
Data from this Spanish Data Protection Agency considered that the action
of the claimed entity did not meet the conditions imposed by the regulations in force,
Therefore, the opening of a sanctioning procedure proceeds. Thus, with date
06/01/20, the Director of the AEPD, agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the person
person claimed, by virtue of the established powers, for failing to comply with the provisions of
Article 13 of the RGPD, by NOT offering the necessary information to the claimant when
the DNI was required for scanning, punishable in accordance with the provisions of art.
83 of the aforementioned RGPD, with an initial sanction of "WARNING".

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the person claimed, by means of a written
dated 06/15/20, made, in summary, the following allegations:
 
On the lack of information in relation to the treatment derived from the DNI scan
Of the interested. My principal, in compliance with article 30, has a Registry of Ac-
treatment activities. There are, among others, two different declared activities:
 
1. Clients: with the purpose of proceeding to the granting of the public document and
to its invoicing 2. Money Laundering: for the management and registration of obligations
tions derived in the matter.
 
These activities are different and coincide with the files declared at the time
in accordance with Law 15/1999 on data protection and Ministerial orders
of its creation to the extent that they were public files: OM of Justice
JUS/484/2003 and Ministry of Economy Order EHA/114/2008, dated January 29.
 
The Agreement says that we contest that the duty of information of article 13 was omitted
of Regulation 2016/679 when the claimant's DNI was scanned for the purpose of giving
compliance with the Money Laundering Prevention Law and subsequently
when you requested it. It is true what the notified act says: the interested party was not informed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

of the money laundering activity of the ***NOTARIO.2. However, as
You see, there is no legal obligation to inform about data processing in case of
money laundering.
 
We note that the interested party was informed in relation to the activity of "clients"
as stated in the file.
 
The Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure forgets some data that would have
allowed the correct qualification of the facts of this procedure:
 
1. The notary is subject to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering: ar-
Article 2.1 n) regulated entities: “notaries”.
 
2. The notary as a subject bound by Regulation 2016/679 creates his Registry of
Activities. Following the AGPD criteria, it makes use of the file created by the Or-
in EHA/114/2008, of January 29, regulating compliance with certain
obligations of notaries in the field of prevention of money laundering and
This is how the treatment activity “Money Laundering” has been declared.
 
3. Art 32.3 of Law 10/2010 of April 28 declares that: “By virtue of the provisions of the
Article 24.1, and in relation to the obligations referred to in the preceding section.
above, the information obligation foreseen will not apply to data processing.
in article 5 of Organic Law 15/1999. Likewise, they will not be applicable to fi-
les and treatments referred to in this precept the rules contained in the
aforementioned Organic Law referring to the exercise of the rights of access, rectification,
cancellation and opposition. In case of exercise of the aforementioned rights by the interested party-
do, the obligated subjects will limit themselves to revealing the provisions of this article.
ass".
 
4. On the obligation to make copies of the DNI: Art 28. 2. Money Laundering Regulations
of Capitals “The obligated subjects will store the copies of the authenticated documents
formal identification in optical, magnetic or electronic media”
 
5. On the term of conservation of the DNI: Art 29.1 Money Laundering Regulation
Capitals: “The obligated subjects will keep the documents and keep records
of all business relationships and operations, national and international.
end, for a period of ten years from the termination of the relationship…”.
 
Therefore, in compliance with the legal obligation of article 32 of Law 10/2010, no
reported the data processing to the interested party.
 
It has been proven that in the communication dated October 31, 2018, the
interested in the peculiarities of the processing of personal data at the headquarters of
money laundering.
 
On the character of the Notary Public and part of the Public Administration: It says
the website of the Ministry of Justice: “The Notary, once he obtains the title and takes
session of its Notary, will have in the district to which it corresponds the character of function
public registry and authority in everything that affects the service of the notarial function, with
rights
the law".

such effects

grant to

  that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

https://www.mjusticia.gob.es/cs/Satellite/Portal/es/servicios-
citizen/public employment/access-calls-profiles/notaries-for-notaries
 
Says the OM Justice JUS/484/2003: "...Notaries, Notarial Associations and the Con-
General Council of Notaries present specialties in relation to the exercise of
other professions subject to membership, highlighting the character of public official
co of its collegiate and Public Administration dependent on the Administration
General of the State, through the General Directorate of Registries and Notaries.”
 
Moreover, the TCl says that notaries are part of the public function of the State. A) Yes,
Judgment 120/1992, of September 21, says the High Court: "This jurisdiction
regulation, on the other hand, also derives from the character of public officials of the
State that Notaries have and their integration into a single national body”.

Likewise, in Judgment 4/2014, of January 16, 2014, the High Court says: “Apply
Based on the reiterated doctrine of this Court (SSTC 56/1987, of May 7; 67/1983,
from July 22; 120/1992, of February 21, and 207/1999, of November 11), only at
It is up to the State to direct orders or instructions that must be complied with to
notaries or registrars, being unquestionable that it is the State, through the
DG of Registries and Notaries, the superior body of those, which are located in
relationship of hierarchical dependency and, therefore, in a position of forced acceptance
binding orders or interpretations. On the application of article 77 of
Law 3/2018 on the protection of personal data.
 
The Home Agreement errs by not respecting the regime provided for in article 77 of the Law
2/2018 especially in its section 2 when it says:
 
“When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed something
None of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
ca, the competent data protection authority will issue a sanction resolution
mentioning them with warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed. The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or
charged with the treatment, to the body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and to
those affected who had the status of interested party, as the case may be.”
 
The character of the notary public official and his integration in
the State Administration and, therefore, we cannot accept the allusion, due to intimidation
tory, of the Initiation Agreement when it says that "This infraction can be sanctioned with
a maximum fine of 20,000,000 euros…”.

Fourth: That the Resolution of June 2, 2020, of the General Directorate of Security
Legal Authority and Public Faith, of the Ministry of Justice notifies in the Official Gazette of the
ted of last June 8, 2020 the retirement of the notary (Doc nº 2).
   
SIXTH: On 06/23/20, the person claimed, presented in this Agency, new
brief of allegations, in which, in summary, it indicated the following:

“That having presented arguments on the fifteenth day of the current considered
We deem it opportune to present a copy of Resolution R/01712/2016 by

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

as it concludes in its Third Basis that notaries are public officials
cos:

In this sense, Notaries, Notarial Associations and the General Council of Notaries
riado present specialties in relation to the exercise of other professions subject to
membership fees, highlighting the character of public officials of their members and
of Public Administration dependent on the General Administration of the State, through
through the General Directorate of Registries and Notaries”.

SEVENTH: On 06/08/20, the period of practice tests began, according to
dosing: a).- consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the complaint filed by the de-
advertiser and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated that form
part of file E/9681/2019 and b).- consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the
allegations to the initiation agreement of PS/00044/2020, presented by the entity de-
announced.
EIGHTH: On 07/22/20, the requested person is notified of the proposal for re-
solution in which it is proposed that, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Protection
tion of Data is sanctioned with "WARNING" for an infraction of article 13)
of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2) of the aforementioned RGPD.
NINTH: After notification of the proposed resolution, dated 09/07/20, the
person claimed submits a brief of allegations, in which, among others, it indicates:

“ The claimant initially filed a consumer claim with the Board of
Andalusia, due to its discrepancy due to the applied tariff. It was in this procedure
where he stated that he had not been informed of his rights when scanning the DNI.
 
The file contains a copy of the notarial invoice where the basic information appears.
physical data processing activity "clients" (Doc.1 of the report to the AEPD).
 
That said consumption procedure is filed in October 2018 and that is when the
claimant requests data protection information that is given on October 31.
 
There is no evidence on file that the claimant applied on July 7, 2018
exercise your data protection rights. In his mail of November 1, the re-
claimant assures that the invoice does not contain the rights and the way to exercise the
themselves. However, this statement does not correspond to reality.

That next when the DPD intervenes, it was necessary to discern through several co-
emails the specific request of the claimant about the scanning of the DNI.

That before a month of silence from the complainant had elapsed, the DPD contacted
contact with him and the procedure was extended for two months to attend to his request
(Doc. 6) of the Report requested by the AGPD. That the request was finally granted
claimant information called “money laundering”.
 
It is noted that in relation to the "Money Laundering" activity, no
ted informative legends, every time there is no obligation in this regard. for activity
of clients, unrelated to this file, a legend was provided that is part of the file.
tea. It is attached below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

 

<<A.A.A. with address at ***ADDRESS.1 is the Data Controller
in order to study your file, write the public document and pro-
give in to its granting, incorporation into the protocol and invoicing.

The legal basis of the treatment is the exercise of notarial public faith by virtue of
the Law of Notaries and the Law of Voluntary Jurisdiction 15/2015 in the terms
of article 6.1 e) of the European Data Protection Regulation
2016/679. There is a legal basis based on a contractual relationship. The treat-
Data collection is necessary for the granting of the document.

Likewise, the notary acts as the person in charge of treatment in relation to
to the protocol and notarial documentation whose Treatment Manager is the
General Directorate of Legal Security and Public Trust for the purpose of archiving
of the public documents of the notary public and collaboration of the Adminis-
public trations. The billing data will be kept until prescribed.
ban tax obligations.

In relation to the protocol and notarial documentation, the data will be kept
as a public file indefinitely.

This notary office has a designated Data Protection Officer:
***DPD.1.

The data will be communicated to the Public Administrations, to the Notarial College
or to the General Council of Notaries when there is a legal regulation that protects it.

You have recognized the right of access, rectification, deletion and portability
ity of your data, limitation and opposition to its treatment, as well as not
be subject to decisions based solely on automated processing
of your data, when applicable. You can exercise your rights before the Delegate
of data protection providing a scanned copy of your ID addressed to
***DPD.1. We would like to point out that regarding the protocol and documentation,
Such rights have a series of limitations due to their specific purpose.
file feature.

You are also recognized the right to file a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency as an interested party>>.

  
For the foregoing, WE SUPPLICATE V.I. that you have submitted this document on time
type and form and in merit of its content agrees the file of the Sanctioning Procedure-
dor as there was no delay in providing the information to Mr. B.B.B.
In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

1º.- On 08/07/18, the claimant went to the notarial office of A.A.A., to
Request a copy of the deed to your house. According to the record, "by not
having the claimant's DNI scanned, it was considered appropriate to scan it
in accordance with current legislation on money laundering. As stated in the de-
complaint of the claimant, "when asking the reason why the DNI was scanned, NO
received no adequate response, only informing him that they would contact
to him to inform him conveniently”.

2º.- According to the letter from the DPD, the Notary Public contacted
contact with the claimant on 10/31/18, informing them of the special circumstances that
have these treatments because they are subject to money laundering legislation.
In addition, it was indicated that, in the invoice for professional services delivered to the
clamoring, the basic data of information on data protection by the
activity of the notarial office. From this date there were several exchanges of co-
e-mails between the claimant and the DPD of the Notary, in relation to the heirs
guys.
3º.- The claimant responded to the reply from the DPD one day later (on 11/01/18), in
the following terms:

“My dear sir, thank you very much for the information. Indicate that the invoice does not have
I certify that this information was provided, given that among other things, they must see
nir the rights and the contact to exercise them. I talked to three employees who didn't fa-
they cited the information. The third, he asked for my phone number to provide me with that information,
but until my mail today, I have not received the information, which leaves me with the doubt of
where did my phone go? I will check if it is correct what it tells me about the
invoice. I understand that you have a record of what you tell me. Also indicate that
there are errors in the information you present to me, since the security measures are not
they are in article 26. In fact, the GDPR does not say what to do, but that it must
carry out a risk analysis or an EIPD and determine it, depending on the criticality. this gives me
little confidence in the measures in place, which is why I initially requested in-
training. I hope that your DPO can answer me to the security, that I have two
months and a half silvering, as well as the legitimation given that I have not been able to see
the need for the information required of me in Law 15/2015, which was the reason
vo of my query. For security, as I indicated, I do not like to be scanned
my ID directly.

4º.- The information provided in the invoice issued by the notarial office (No.
Invoice: U001155 dated: 08/07/2018, contains the following information regarding the
Personal data protection:

- Responsible: Notarial Office located at ***ADDRESS.1 Contact information
of the Data Protection Delegate: ***DPD.1 Purpose: Granting documents
public payment and billing.

- Conservation: Until the prescription of the legal obligations derived from

writing.
Legitimation: Compliance with the public duties that correspond to the nota-
river

- Recipients: No data will be transferred to third parties except in case of legal obligation.
gal. In general, the Public Administrations, the Notarial College and the General Council
general of Notaries.

-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

- Rights: Access, rectify and delete the data, as well as other rights,

as explained in the additional information.

- More Information: You can request an expanded information sheet on

Your rights".

5º.- In the allegations, presented in this Agency by the requested person, the
07/11/19, the following was indicated:

“(…) consequently and in accordance with the request for information, we state
that, on June 11, 2018, an Audit was carried out in protection of
Data. As a result of it, the consequent recommendations were formalized
amendments to comply with the obligations indicated above, were adopted
the following measures:

“(…) They agreed to implant legends for the purpose of complying with the duty of
information from article 13 of European Regulation 2016/679.

A RGPD rights management procedure was established in the Despa-
notary cho”.

The measures were reviewed on March 19, 2019. It was agreed
Recommendations were made to correct the deficiencies found and improve the
proper implantation. A protection legend is included in the invoices.
data by reason of the “clients” activity.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
knowledge of the AEPD, a vision of the denounced action that has been
reflected in the facts declared proven above reported.

Yo

II

However, the following considerations must be made:
The art. 32.3 of Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the prevention of money laundering
and the financing of terrorism, establishes that: “By virtue of the provisions of article
Article 24.1, and in relation to the obligations referred to in the previous section,
The information obligation provided for in
Article 5 of Organic Law 15/1999. Likewise, they will not be applicable to files
methods and treatments referred to in this precept, the rules contained in the citation
of the Organic Law referring to the exercise of the rights of access, rectification, cancellation
lation and opposition. In case of exercise of the aforementioned rights by the interested party, the
Obliged subjects will limit themselves to revealing the provisions of this article”.

Well, when the claimant went to the Notary, on 08/07/18, to request a copy
of the deed of his apartment, and ask him for the DNI to scan it, he asked the reasons why
which this act was now demanded, not receiving any satisfactory answer, nor
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

He was not even told what was stipulated in the Money Laundering Prevention Law.
them: "(...) In case of exercise of the aforementioned rights by the interested party, the subjects
obliged will be limited to revealing the provisions of this article”, limiting-
to tell him that, "they would contact him to receive the appropriate information."
cuada”, a situation that occurred two and a half months later, on 10/31/18, through the
DPD.

Therefore, although said article establishes that the duty to inform the interested party does not
is applicable in relation to "the obligations referred to in section
"previous", that is, those related to compliance with information obligations
provided for in Chapter III (which basically refer to cases in which there is
to communicate to SEPBLAC when there are indications of a possible money laundering case
of capital or financing of terrorism), the right to information of art. 13 of the
RGPD, is fully applicable. Therefore, with that exception, you have the obligation
to provide all the information related to the processing of personal data in
the moment of collecting them from the interested parties.

Regarding the rights of citizens when they process their personal data, it says
Recital 59) of the RGPD that: "(...) The data controller must be
obliged to respond to the requests of the interested party without undue delay and at the latest.
within a month, and to explain their reasons in case they did not attend.
give them”. While considering 60) and 61) of the same RGPD indicates, respectively
mind:

“(60) The principles of fair and transparent treatment require that the interested party be informed
of the existence of the treatment operation and its purposes. The person in charge of
treatment must provide the interested party with as much additional information as necessary.
to ensure fair and transparent treatment, taking into account the circumstances
specific circumstances and context in which the personal data is processed (...)”.

“(61) Data subjects must be provided with information on the processing of their data.
personal data at the time they are obtained from them (...)”.
 
In the case at hand, the collection of the claimant's personal data, me-
Through the scanner of your ID, it is guaranteed by art. 6.1.c) of the RGPD: “the treatment
it is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the person in charge of the
treatment”, such as compliance with the legislation on money laundering.
On the other hand, article 13.1.c) of the RGPD obliges the data controller to
the data to give the necessary information so that the interested party knows the purposes of the
data processing and the legal basis for it: "c) the purposes of the treatment to which
the personal data and the legal basis of the treatment are destined”.

But it is that, in addition, article 12 of the RGPD summons the person in charge of the treatment
of data to take the necessary measures to provide the interested party with the indi-
each in article 13 indicated above: “1. The data controller takes
will take the appropriate measures to provide the interested party with all the information indicated in the
articles 13 and 14, as well as any communication under articles 15 to 22
and 34 related to treatment, in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form.
so, with clear and simple language, in particular any information directed specifically
exactly a child. The information will be provided in writing or by other means, including
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

including, if applicable, by electronic means. When requested by the interested party, the information
mation may be provided verbally as long as the identity of the inmate is proven.
repaired by other means.2. The data controller will provide the interested party with the
exercise of their rights under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in
referred to in article 11, paragraph 2, the controller shall not refuse to act at the request of the
interested in order to exercise their rights under articles 15 to 22, except
that can demonstrate that it is not in a position to identify the interested party. 3.The res-
responsible for the treatment will provide the interested party with information regarding their actions
on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, and, in any case,
within one month of receipt of the request (...)”.

Well, the invoice delivered to the claimant contained the necessary information regarding
on data protection, such as the data controller; the purpose: (-grants-
public document filing and billing); the conservation time; the standing
for the treatment: (- the fulfillment of the public duties that correspond to the
notary); the recipients and the rights that could be exercised.

It can be verified that, in the purposes for which the data processing will be used
personal information of the notary appears the, "Issuance of public document and invoicing", and
in the legal basis for the treatment of the data appears, "compliance with the de-
public duties that correspond to the notary”. Nothing is informed to the interested party about what
stipulated in art. 32.3 of Law 10/2010 of April 28, when it is indicated
that, in the event that personal data is processed in order to comply with the
current legislation on money laundering, as is the case, if the interest
sado wishes to exercise its rights recognized in the RGPD, "(...) the obligated subjects
they will be limited to revealing the provisions of this article”. Well, not even
You are not informed of this circumstance, neither in writing nor verbally, when you ask.
he received only as an answer that, "they would get in touch with him", circum-
event that did occur, but not before a month as marked by the RGPD, but with a de-
two and a half months late.

Finally, remember once again that the respondent undertook to take the measures
measures necessary to remedy the deficiency detected and so indicated to this Agency:
“They agreed to implement legends for the purpose of complying with the duty of information
of article 13 of the European Regulation 2016/679. 4. A procedure was established
management of GDPR rights in the Notarial Office (...)”. Measures not yet
have been submitted for corroboration by this Agency.

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued:

 :
RESOLVE
 

NOTICE: to A.A.A., with NIF: ***NIF.1 for violation of article 13) of the RGPD.

REQUIRE: A.A.A., so that, within a month from this act of notification
of the resolution, proceed to include legends in the documents that are provided to
customers, for the purposes of complying with the duty of information of article 13 of the
GDPR.

NOTIFY: this resolution to A.A.A.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this Re-
The solution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

