 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, July 6, 2018

 

press release

 

BayLDA sets up a hotline for clubs and volunteers

and answers questions about the new General Data Protection Regulation

As of Monday, the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA)

July 9, 2018 at 12:00 p.m. a hotline for clubs and volunteers

from Bavaria for questions of data protection.

 
 

 

In the voluntary sector there is still uncertainty about the requirements

the new European data protection law (General Data Protection Regulation - DS-GVO -), which came into effect on

May 25, 2018 is applicable to clubs and volunteers. This uncertainty

tion has led to requests for advice from clubs and companies at BayLDA

have increased significantly.

 

In order to provide clubs and volunteers in Bavaria with quick and uncomplicated assistance

the BayLDA will direct the application of the new data protection law from Monday,

July 9, 2018 at 12:00 p.m. to the following telephone hotline:

Hotline for clubs and volunteers in Bavaria

Service time from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 19:00

Telephone number:

0981-53-1810

 

 

The aim of the hotline is to provide clubs and voluntary workers in Bavaria with contact persons.

to answer your (standard) questions. The BayLDA intends to

of the week the 10 most frequently asked questions and answers on the homepage (www.lda.bayern.de)

to publish. If individual questions cannot be answered, the BayLDA has one

set up an additional e-mail contact. Questions that cannot be answered either by the hotline or by the

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 27
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 53 1300
Fax +49 (0) 981 53 98 1300
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

rich information on the BayLDA homepage can be answered to the

E-mail address:

 

 

be judged.

 

vereine@lda.bayern.de

"We hope," says Thomas Kranig, President of the BayLDA, "that we can use this hotline to remedy the situation quickly

able to create and the volunteers in the clubs can focus more on their actual

be it for sports, health or culture.”. "Our goal," says Thomas

Kranig continues, "is still those who care about compliance with data protection

Scriptures try to support and not to sanction. Only those who care about the data

Anyone who doesn’t care about protection at all must also expect sanctions.”

 

Thomas Kranig

president

