3/4  
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with a subsidiary character, by the general rules on administrative procedures.  
II  
In response to the allegations presented by the entity being complained against, the following should be noted:  
- The accused party alleges that there is no camera in the installation at ***ADDRESS.1 recording and/or viewing the public road, that there are different masked cameras and some deterrent ones without image capture, and that the latter have already been removed.  
- In this regard, this Agency reminds that, even in the case of a "simulated" camera, it must be preferably oriented towards private space, given that it is considered that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, who feel intimidated by it under the belief that they are subject to permanent recording.  
In light of the allegations presented and the documentation provided, it is considered that since the cameras are not capturing images, there is no data processing taking place, and therefore, no infringement of data protection regulations is observed.  
III  
Article 5.1 c) of the GDPR states the following: Personal data shall be: “adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (‘data minimization’).”  
Regarding processing for the purposes of video surveillance, Article 22 of the LOPDGDD establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the processing of images through camera or video camera systems for the purpose of safeguarding the security of persons and property, as well as their facilities.  
The processing of personal data is subject to the other principles of processing contained in Article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight the principle of data minimization contained in Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, which states that personal data shall be “adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.”  
This means that in a specific processing operation, only the relevant personal data that is strictly necessary to fulfill the purpose for which it is processed may be processed. The processing must be appropriate and proportional to the purpose it aims to achieve. Relevance in the processing of data must occur both at the time of data collection and in the subsequent processing of the same.  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es  

4/4  
In the present case, since the installed cameras on the facade of the building are non-operational and therefore merely deterrent, and are not processing any data, it is considered appropriate to archive the present sanctioning procedure, and it is not necessary for these cameras to be signposted, precisely because no data processing is taking place.  
Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and evaluated the criteria for the graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been established,  
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection RESOLVES:  
FIRST: TO ARCHIVE the present proceedings.  
SECOND: TO NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.  
In accordance with the provisions of Article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.  
Against this resolution, which concludes the administrative procedure in accordance with Article 48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file a motion for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within one month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly file an administrative contentious appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of Article 25 and Section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within two months from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.  
Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of Article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, the firm resolution in the administrative procedure may be provisionally suspended if the interested party expresses their intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by means of a written document addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, submitting it through the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in Article 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. They must also provide the Agency with documentation that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency is not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day following the notification of this resolution, it will consider the provisional suspension to be concluded.  
938-300823  
Mar España Martí  
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es