  

The ICO exists to empower you through information. 

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF 
T. 0303 123 1113 
ico.org.uk 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

 

REPRIMAND 

 
18 October 2023 
 
TO: Gap Personnel Holdings Limited 
 
OF: Pulford House, Bell Meadow Business Park, Park Lane, Pulford, 
Chester, England, CH4 9EP 
 
The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Gap Personnel Holdings Limited (Gap) in accordance with Article 58 (2) (b) 
of the UK General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in respect of certain 
infringements of the UK GDPR.   
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Gap in respect of 
the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 32 (1) which states: 

 
“taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation 
and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as 
the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms 
of natural persons, the controller and the processor shall implement 
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level 
of security appropriate to the risk.” 

•  Article 32 (1) (b) which states that organisations should: 

 
“ensure  the  ongoing  confidentiality,  integrity,  availability  and 
resilience of processing systems and services”  
 

•  Article 32 (1) (d) which states that organisations should have: 

 
“a  process  for  regularly  testing,  assessing  and  evaluating  the 
effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for ensuring 
the security of the processing” 

1 

 

 

 

 

 

The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below. 
  
Case Summary / Background 
 
Gap,  is  a  recruitment  company  who  provide  an  employment  service  for 
temporary  and  permanent  contracts  in  multiple  sectors  such  as 
Construction, IT, Science, Healthcare, Human Resources, Sales, Finance. 
 
It  is  the  Commissioner’s  understanding  that  an  unauthorised  third  party 
gained access to Gap’s systems twice within a 12-month timeframe. Both 
incidents resulted in personal data being exfiltrated from a database within 
Gap’s system.  
 
First Incident  
 
Unauthorised  access  was  first  gained  on  or  around  13  March  2022  (the 
“March  incident”).  The  affected  database  contained  personal  data  for 
13,720 UK Data Subjects. The database included both fully and partially 
completed records meaning that not all categories of data were present for 
all  data  subjects,  but  variously  included  names,  addresses,  email 
addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth and right to work. For 5,364 
UK Data Subjects the data also included bank account numbers. 
 
Gap were unable to determine the specific cause of the March incident but 
believe it is likely that the threat actor leveraged an unsecure script (PHP 
file) and performed an SQL injection attack.  
 
In response to the March incident, Gap kept the affected system live and 
 
carried  out  remedial  measures  which  included
 
 
 

 
Second Incident 
 
However,  on  or  around  16  August  2022  the  same  threat  actor  gained 
unauthorised access to Gap’s system again (the “August incident”). At this 
time,  the  affected  database  contained  personal  data  for  4,421  UK  Data 
Subjects. The database included both fully and partially completed records 

 

 2 

 

 

meaning that not all categories of data were present for all data subjects, 
but  variously  included  names,  addresses,  email  addresses,  telephone 
numbers, dates of birth and right to work. For 1,506 UK Data Subjects the 
data also included bank account numbers. 
 
Gap  have  been  unable  to  determine  the  specific  cause  of  the  August 
incident, however it believes that the August incident was the result of an 
SQL  injection  attack  on  a  different  webpage  to  that  used  to  access  the 
database  in  the  March  incident.  Gap  stated  that  the  vulnerability  they 
believe allowed unauthorised access in March had been patched and tested 
on 26 April 2022. 
 
Our  investigation  found  infringements  in  relation  to  the  security 
requirement of the UK GDPR and these are set out below. 
 
Article 32(1)(b) 
 

•  Gap  were  not  ensuring  the  ongoing  confidentiality,  integrity  and 
resilience of their systems as per Article 32 (1) (b). Gap did not have 
the  appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  in  place  to 
ensure the level of security appropriate to risk.  
 
At  the  time  of  the  incident  there  were  a  number  of  vulnerabilities 
present, which Gap had previously been made aware of. There are 
four specific vulnerabilities which we found to have contributed to the 
breach for the following reasons: 
 

i.  Unsupported version of MySQL 

 
At the time of both incidents, Gap were using MySQL version 
5.6. This version had received no support after February 2021. 
Gap were aware the version was out of support but explained 
that updating the MySQL version could stop the system from 
working, so they knowingly continued with the ‘out of support’ 
version and decided to replace the system instead. While the 
out  of  support  version  may  not  have  directly  led  to  the 
execution of an SQL injection attack, it shows a wider lack of 
adherence to good practice around patch management in the 
security landscape. 

 3 

 

 

 
 

ii.  Unsupported PHP version 

 
At the time of both incidents Gap were using PHP version 7.1. 
This  version  received  its  last  update  in  October  2019.  Gap 
decided not to update the PHP version due to the legacy coding 
not being compatible with the recent versions of PHP. Updating 
the coding would have taken significant work on a system Gap 
were planning to replace. As outlined in (i), this highlights a 
lack  of  awareness  in  relation  to  patch  management  and  the 
risks associated with securing personal data. 
 
Poorly written PHP code 
 
The  poorly  written  coding  is  relevant  to  input  validation 
because this directly relates to whether the data inputted by a 
user onto a system is or isn’t acceptable. It would be expected 
that a system capturing personal details would validate input 
data; both to prevent SQL injection attacks and also ensure the 
integrity of data entered by the user. 
 
Insufficient logging 
 
Gap  did  have  system  logging  in  place  at  the  time  of  both 
incidents,  however  the  logging  was  insufficient  which  meant 
analysis  of  the  attack  was  limited.  A  strategy  for  recording 
events  on  a  system  is  good  practice  and  would  help  in  the 
analysis of an attack on a system. 
 

iii. 

iv. 

The  software  vulnerabilities,  along  with  the  lack  of  appropriate 
logging  and  monitoring  system,  limited  Gap’s  ability  to  effectively 
detect and quickly mitigate security incidents. The NCSC1 guidance 
recommends  organisations  implement  logging  and  monitoring  to 
effectively identify the source and the extent of compromise.   
 
The commissioner has taken into consideration the nature and risk of 
processing, the state of the art and the cost of implementation, and 

1  Logging and protective monitoring - NCSC.GOV.UK 

 

 4 

 

 

understands that Gap intended to replace the affected system, and 
have  since  introduced  this.  Gap  cited  Covid  for  the  reason  for  the 
delay. 
 

•  Gap were not conducting security testing as per Article 32 (1) (d). 
 
 The 
NCSC2  recommends  organisations  perform  vulnerability  scans  at 
least once every month, and provides guidance on the type of scans 
available, including web application scans.  

Article 32(1)(d) 
 

 
Article 32(1) 

 

•  Gap  did  not  have  the  correct  organisational  measures  in  place  to 
ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk as per Article 32 (1). 
Gap did not have an active patching policy in place at the time of the 
incident.  This  demonstrated  failings  in  the  organisation’s  wider 
obligations under the UK GDPR.  

 
Remedial steps taken by Gap 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by Gap in light of this incident. In particular Gap’s prompt notification 
to Data Subjects of the March incident in April 2022, which included a link 
to  NCSC  data  breach  guidance  for  individuals3,  and  provided  them  with 
direct contact information to discuss the incident in more detail. Also, in 
October 2022 Gap implemented a new system with security measures and 
regular  penetration  testing,  alongside  introducing  additional  policies 
including data retention, patching and vulnerability management. 
 
Moving  forward  in  line  with  Article  32  (1)  of  the  UK  GDPR,  Gap  should 
ensure they maintain appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
detect and respond to incidents promptly. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 

2 Vulnerability Scanning Tools and Services - NCSC.GOV.UK 
3 Data breaches: guidance for individuals and families - NCSC.GOV.UK  

 

 5 

 

 
Taking  into  account  all  the  circumstances  of  this  case,  including  the 
remedial steps, and the representations made by Gap, the Commissioner 
has  decided  to  issue  a  reprimand  to  Gap  in  relation  to  the  alleged 
infringements of articles of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 

 

Lead Technical Investigations Officer 
Information Commisioner’s Office 
 
 

 6 

 

