

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing through the camera system in the housing association (Bytové družstvo PODROUŽKOVA 1684)



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the subject of which was the processing of personal data through a camera system with recording equipment installed in the premises of the apartment building.



When collecting personal data, the administrator is obliged to inform the data subject about the extent and for what purpose the personal data will be processed, who and how the personal data will be processed and to whom the personal data may be made available, if this information is not already known to the data subject . Furthermore, the administrator must inform the data subject about his right of access to personal data, the right to correct personal data, as well as other rights established by Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Although the controlled person operates a camera system with recording, it has not sufficiently informed the data subjects about this fact.



The audited person violated the obligations set out in Article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 by the above-mentioned conduct.



The Office imposed corrective measures on the inspected person consisting of the obligation to supplement the information on the processing of personal data through the camera system and the obligation to respond to the complainant's request for access to personal data. The inspected person complied with these measures and submitted a report to the Office. Due to the scope of the violation and the implementation of the remedy, the Office waived the imposition of a fine.


The inspection was conducted by inspector PaeDr. Jana Rybínová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of personal data processing through a camera system in a housing cooperative (Bytové družstvo PODROUŽKOVA 1684)Show current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



