01.10.2020
Sanctions for violating the RGPD

1) The National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing has completed an investigation at Megareduceri TV S.R.L., in which it found a violation of certain provisions of the General Regulation on Data Protection.
Thus, Megareduceri TV S.R.L. was sanctioned for not carrying out the corrective measure ordered to send a response to the requests of the National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing, thus violating the instructions of our institution, a fact provided in art. 83 para. (5) lit. e) of Regulation (EU) 679/2016. As such, the operator was sanctioned with a fine in the amount of 14519.1 lei (equivalent to the amount of 3000 EURO).
At the same time, the operator of Megareduceri TV S.R.L. A corrective measure was also applied to send to the National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing a response to the addresses previously communicated within 5 calendar days, pursuant to art. 58 para. (2) lit. d) of Regulation (EU) 679/2016.
The investigation was started due to the fact that several petitioners notified the National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing regarding the fact that they received by sms commercial messages promoting the services on the site www.reducerazi.ro, without to have consented to receive such messages on personal telephone numbers.

2) The National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing has completed an investigation at the Association of Military Owners R, Chiajna commune, Ilfov county, in which it found a violation of certain provisions of the General Regulation on Data Protection.
Thus, the owners' association was sanctioned for failing to comply with the corrective measure ordered to send a response to the requests of the National Authority for Supervision of Personal Data Processing, thus violating the instructions of our institution, the deed provided by art. 83 para. (5) of Regulation (EU) 679/2016. As such, the operator was fined 9659 lei, the equivalent of 2000 EURO;
At the same time, a corrective measure was applied to the owners' association, to send in writing to the National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing all the information requested by the address previously communicated, within 5 calendar days, pursuant to art. (58) para. (1) lit. a) and e) of the Regulation Regulation (EU) no. 679/2016.
The sanctions were applied as a result of a complaint alleging that the petition had not been answered to the owners' request.
Legal and communication department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.