   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 
 
To:  Repair Plans UK Limited  
 
Of:    3rd Floor, Queensberry House, 106 Queens Road, Brighton 
 
 
1. 

England BN1 3XF 

The  Information  Commissioner  (“the  Commissioner”)  has  decided  to 
issue  Repair  Plans  UK  Limited  (“RPUK”)  with  an  enforcement  notice 
under section 40 of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The notice is 
being issued because of a serious contravention of regulation 21 of the 
Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 
(“PECR”). 
 
This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision. 

2. 

 

         Legal framework 
 
3. 

RPUK,  whose  registered  office  is  given  above  (Companies  House 
Registration Number: 12925962) is the organisation stated in this notice 
to have used a public electronic communications service for the purpose 
of making unsolicited calls for the purposes of direct marketing contrary 
to regulation 21 of PECR.  
 

 

1 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
4. 

Regulation  21  applies  to  the  making  of  unsolicited  calls  for  direct 
marketing  purposes.  It  means  that  if a  company  wants  to  make  calls 
promoting  a  product  or  service  to  an  individual  who  has  a  telephone 
number which is registered with the Telephone Preference Service Ltd 
(“TPS”), then that individual must have notified the company that they 
do not object to receiving such calls from it. 
 
Regulation 21 paragraph (1) of PECR provides that: 

“(1)  A  person  shall  neither  use,  nor  instigate  the  use  of,  a  public 
electronic communications service for the purposes of making unsolicited 
calls for direct marketing purposes where- 

5. 
 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

the called line is that of a subscriber who has previously notified 
the caller that such calls should not for the time being be made 
on that line; or 

the number allocated to a subscriber in respect of the called line 
is one listed in the register kept under regulation 26.” 
 

Regulation 21 paragraphs (2), (3), (4) and (5) provide that: 

6. 
  
      “(2)   A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention 

   of paragraph (1). 

 

 

(3)   A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 
where the number allocated to the called line has been listed on the 
register  for  less  than  28  days  preceding  that  on  which  the  call  is 
made. 

 

2 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

(4)  Where a subscriber who has caused a number allocated to a line of 
his to be listed in the register kept under regulation 26 has notified 
a caller that he does not, for the time being, object to such calls being 
made  on  that  line  by  that  caller,  such  calls  may  be  made  by  that 
caller on that line, notwithstanding that the number allocated to that 
line is listed in the said register. 

 
        (5)  Where  a  subscriber  has  given  a  caller  notification  pursuant  to 

paragraph (4) in relation to a line of his— 

 

 
7. 

8. 

 

(a) the subscriber shall be free to withdraw that notification at any 
time, and 
(b) where such notification is withdrawn, the caller shall not make 
such calls on that line.” 

Under regulation 26 of PECR, the Commissioner is required to maintain 
a register of numbers allocated to subscribers who have notified them 
that they do not wish, for the time being, to receive unsolicited calls for 
direct  marketing  purposes  on  those  lines.  The  Telephone  Preference 
Service Limited (“TPS”) is a limited company which operates the register 
on the Commissioner’s behalf. Businesses who wish to carry out direct 
marketing by telephone can subscribe to the TPS for a fee and receive 
from them monthly a list of numbers on that register. 
 
Section  122(5)  of  the  DPA18  defines  direct  marketing  as  “the 
communication (by whatever means) of any advertising material which 
is directed to particular individuals”. This definition also applies for the 
purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) PECR & Schedule 19 paragraphs 
430 & 432(6) DPA18). 
 

3 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
9. 

“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 
 

10.  A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 
a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic communications 
services for the supply of such services”. 

 
11.  The DPA contains enforcement provisions at Part V which are exercisable 
by the Commissioner. Those provisions are modified and extended for 
the purposes of PECR by Schedule 1 PECR. 
 

12.  Section  40(1)(a)  of  the  DPA  (as  extended  and  modified  by  PECR) 
provides  that  if  the  Commissioner  is  satisfied  that  a  person  has 
contravened  or  is  contravening  any  of  the  requirements  of  the 
Regulations, he may serve him with an Enforcement Notice requiring him 
to take within such time as may be specified in the Notice, or to refrain 
from taking after such time as may be so specified, such steps as are so 
specified.  

 
13.  PECR  were  enacted  to  protect  the  individual’s  fundamental  right  to 
privacy 
the  electronic  communications  sector.  PECR  were 
subsequently  amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner  will 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ overall 
aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy rights. 

in 

 
14.  The  provisions  of  the  DPA  remain  in  force  for  the  purposes  of  PECR 
notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 

 
         
 

 

 

4 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
The contravention 
 
15.  The Commissioner finds that RPUK contravened regulation 21 of PECR.  

 

16.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 
 
17.  Between 18 January 2021 and 7 September 2021, RPUK used a public 
telecommunications  service  for  the  purposes  of  making  21,347 
unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes to subscribers where the 
number allocated to the subscriber in respect of the called line was a 
number listed on the register of numbers kept by the Commissioner in 
accordance with regulation 26, contrary to regulation 21(1)(b) of PECR.  
 

18.  The Commissioner is also satisfied for the purposes of regulation 21 that 
these 21,347 unsolicited direct marketing calls were made to subscribers 
who had registered with the TPS at least 28 days prior to receiving the 
calls, and who for the purposes of regulation 21(4) had not notified RPUK 
that they did not object to receiving such calls. 
 

19.  For such notification to be valid under regulation 21(4), the individual 
must  have  taken  a  clear  and  positive  action  to  override  their  TPS 
registration and indicate their willingness to receive marketing calls from 
the company. The notification should reflect the individual’s choice about 
whether  or  not  they  are  willing  to  receive  marketing  calls.  Therefore, 
where signing up to use a product or service is conditional upon receiving 
marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate how this constitutes 
a clear and positive notification of the individual’s willingness to receive 
such calls.  
 

20.  The  notification  must  clearly  indicate  the  individual’s  willingness  to 
receive marketing calls specifically. Companies cannot rely on individuals 

 

5 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

opting in to marketing communications generally, unless it is clear that 
this will include telephone calls.   
 

21.  Further, the notification must demonstrate the individual’s willingness to 
receive marketing calls from that company specifically. Notifications will 
not be valid for the purposes of regulation 21(4) if individuals are asked 
to  agree  to  receive  marketing  calls  from  “similar  organisations”, 
“partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar generic descriptions.  

 
22.  Rather than providing evidence that the subscribers which it called had 
given valid notification that they agreed to receive such direct marketing 
calls  from  RPUK,  RPUK  has  instead  confirmed  in  the  course  of  the 
Commissioner’s investigation that it destroys all of the data that it relies 
on to make the calls immediately after the calls are made. As such, it is 
unable to provide any evidence of such notification.  
 

23.  The Commissioner’s Direct Marketing Guidance is very clear that bought-
in call lists, such as those used by RPUK, should be screened against the 
TPS.  RPUK  failed  to  adhere  to  this  guidance,  and  has  provided  no 
evidence  that  it  screened  its  data  against  the  TPS  register  prior  to 
making  its  unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls.  This  failure  led  to  a 
significant breach of regulation 21 PECR. 

 
24.  The Commissioner has considered, as he is required to do under section 
40(2) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) when deciding 
whether to serve an Enforcement Notice, whether any contravention has 
caused  or  is  likely  to  cause  any  person  damage  or  distress.  The 
Commissioner has decided that it is likely that damage or distress has 
been  caused  in  this  instance,  not  least  because  of  the  nature  of  the 
complaints received. 
 

 

6 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
25.  In  view  of  the  matters  referred  to  above  the  Commissioner 
hereby gives notice that, in exercise of his powers under section 
40 of the DPA, he requires RPUK to take the steps specified in 
Annex 1 of this Notice. 
 
Right of Appeal 
 

26.  There is a right of appeal against this Notice to the First-tier Tribunal 
(Information  Rights),  part  of  the  General  Regulatory  Chamber. 
Information about appeals is set out in the attached Annex 2.  

 
Dated the 28th day of November 2022.  
 
Andy Curry 
Head of Investigations 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
Wycliffe House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9 5AF  

 

 

7 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX 1 

 

TERMS OF THE ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 
RPUK shall within 30 days of the date of this notice: 

 
•  Neither  use,  nor 

instigate  the  use  of,  a  public  electronic 
communications service for the purposes of making unsolicited calls 
for  direct  marketing  purposes  where  the  called  line  is  that  of: 
 

(a) a subscriber who has previously notified RPUK that such calls 
should not be made on that line; or 
  
(b) a subscriber who has registered their number with the TPS at 
least 28 days previously and who has not notified RPUK that they 
do not object to such calls being made. 

 
 
 
 

 

 

8 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
ANNEX 2 

 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

 

Section 48 of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person upon whom 
an enforcement notice has been served a right of appeal to the First-tier 
Tribunal (Information Rights) (the “Tribunal”) against the notice. 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:- 

a) 

 
b) 

that  the  notice  against  which  the  appeal  is  brought  is  not  in 
accordance with the law; or 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of discretion by 
the Commissioner, that she ought to have exercised her discretion 
differently, 

 
the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
could  have  been  made  by  the  Commissioner.    In  any  other  case  the 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the Tribunal 
at the following address: 

 
 
 
 
 

General Regulatory Chamber 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO Box 9300 
Leicester 
LE1 8DJ 

9 

 

 
1. 

 
2. 
 

 
3. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 
 

Telephone: 0300 123 4504 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

 

 
4.  

 

•  The notice of appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 

days of the date on which the enforcement notice was sent 

The  statutory  provisions  concerning  appeals  to  the  First-tier  Tribunal 
(General Regulatory Chamber) are contained in sections 48 and 49 of, 
and Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal Procedure 
(First-tier  Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory  Chamber)  Rules  2009 
(Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 

 

10 

