1/12

 File No.: EXP202102451

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party), on September 9,
2021, filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the CLUB NAUTICO EL ESTACIO, with NIF G73044893
(hereinafter, the claimed party). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following:

The complainant represents that the complained party has republished on his page
web, open to any user and without access restrictions, the Minutes of the General Meeting
Directive held on May 26, 2021, of the Club Náutico el Estacio, in which
expose your personal data, such as your name, surnames and the circumstance of
that “(…),” which is a recurrence, since the aforementioned Club was reported before
the Agency for the same facts, on that occasion for the publication of an Act of
date August 22, 2020.

Together with the notification, it provides the Minutes of the Board of Directors held on May 26,
2021, of the Nautical Club "El Estacio".

It has been verified that the document is accessible on the website of the
claimed entity.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party,
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month,
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the
data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP) by electronic notification, was not collected by
the person in charge, within the period of making available, understanding rejected
in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.2 of the LPACAP, dated October 16, 2021,
as stated in the certificate in the file.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, by way of
informative, a copy was sent by mail that was reliably notified in
dated October 29, 2021. In said notification, he was reminded of his obligation to
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

communicate electronically with the Administration, and was informed of the means
of access to said notifications, reiterating that, in the future, you would be notified
exclusively by electronic means.

No response has been received to this transfer letter.

THIRD: On December 9, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, it is communicated that the claim presented by the
claiming party.

FOURTH: On June 13, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the RGPD, typified in the
articles 83.5 and 83.4 of the RGPD, respectively.

The initiation agreement was sent, in accordance with the regulations established in the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification,
not being collected by the person in charge, within the period of availability,
understood to be rejected in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.2 of the LPACAP, in
dated June 25, 2022, as stated in the certificate in the file.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) and after the term granted
for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
any by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement
beginning of the sanctioning file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and the sanction that could
prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the respondent has not
formulated allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is stated that on September 9, 2021, the complaining party
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, against the
CLUB NÁUTICO EL ESTACIO, having published on its website, open to
any user and without access restrictions, the Minutes of the Board of Directors held
on May 26, 2021, of the Club Náutico el Estacio, in which your data is exposed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

personal, in addition to the circumstance of having been involved in a file
informative, and in its disciplinary case.

SECOND: It has been verified that the document is accessible on the web
Of the entity.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Previous issues

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the RGPD, it consists
the processing of personal data, since the CLUB NAUTICO
EL ESTACIO, for the development of its social activities, performs treatment of
personal data of its partners.
It carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller, since it is
who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the RGPD:
“responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines
determines the purposes and means of the treatment, the person responsible for the treatment or the criteria
specific for their appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the
Member states.
Article 4 section 12 of the RGPD defines, in a broad way, the "violations of se-
security of personal data” (hereinafter security breach) as “all
those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
accidental or unlawful transfer of personal data transmitted, stored or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data.”
In the present case, there is a security breach of personal data in the
circumstances indicated above, categorized as a breach of confidentiality,
since, when publishing the minutes of the Club's Board of Directors on the website, it has been
disclosed information and personal data to third parties, such as your name
surnames and the circumstance that "(...)".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

According to GT29, a "Breach of confidentiality" occurs when there is
unauthorized or accidental disclosure of personal data, or access to
themselves.

It should be noted that the identification of a security breach does not imply the imposition
sanction directly by this Agency, since it is necessary to analyze the
diligence of those responsible and in charge and the security measures applied.
Within the principles of treatment provided for in article 5 of the RGPD, the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data is guaranteed in section 1.f)
of article 5 of the RGPD. For its part, the security of personal data comes
regulated in articles 32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD, which regulate the security of the
treatment, notification of a violation of the security of personal data to
the control authority, as well as the communication to the interested party, respectively.

III

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD establishes the following:

“Article 5 Principles relating to processing:

1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In relation to this principle, Recital 39 of the aforementioned GDPR states that:

“[…]Personal data must be processed in a way that guarantees security and
appropriate confidentiality of personal data, including to prevent access
or unauthorized use of said data and of the equipment used in the treatment”.

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed violated article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, principles related to treatment.

The AEPD verifies that, at least up to the present date, it is possible to access the
content of the Minutes by typing the Club's email address in the browser, so
that the publication on the web page of the personal data of the
claimant, such as his name, surnames and the circumstance that "(...),"
allowing unauthorized access to said data by third parties.

Consequently, it is considered that the proven facts are constitutive of
infringement, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

The aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD supposes the commission of the infringements
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the heading “General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

a)
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

v

Article 32 of the GDPR

Article 32 of the RGPD, security of treatment, establishes the following:

  "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

The facts revealed imply the lack of technical measures and
organizational by enabling the display of personal data of the claimant
with the consequent lack of diligence by the person in charge, allowing access not
authorized by third parties.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that are subject
of treatment, but establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, pointing out that the determination of technical measures and
organizational must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

encryption. These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the lack of preventive measures.
security, since it is responsible for making decisions aimed at implementing
effectively the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk to ensure the confidentiality of the data,
restoring their availability and preventing access to them in the event of an incident
physical or technical.

Therefore, the proven facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the
claimed party, for violation of article 32 RGPD.

In addition, this AEPD contains the similar reference precedent Procedure No.:
PS/00044/2021, resolved by the director of the AEPD, on July 15, 2021, in
the following terms:

“IMPOSE CLUB NAUTICO EL ESTACIO, with NIF G73044893, for an infraction
of article 32 of the RGPD, and article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR, a fine of €3,000 (three thousand euros).”

However, the security breach has been repeated for similar reasons.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

SAW

The aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the RGPD supposes the commission of the infringements
typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under the heading "General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee an adequate level of security when
risk of treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

7th

Sanction

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to pa-
allocate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent.
gives; i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
given previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to
the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under Article 40 or to certification mechanisms
approvals approved in accordance with article 42,
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

mind, through infraction.”

For its part, article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures” of the LOPDGDD
has:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

data.

Penalty for violations of articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the penalty for
infringement of article 5.1 f) and 32 of the RGPD, it is appropriate to graduate the fine taking into account
bill:

As an aggravating circumstance:

Article 83.2.e) RGPD: any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the
in charge of the treatment: when the events occurred in which the
current infringement of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, the claimed party knew
perfectly the unlawfulness of their conduct when publishing on their website, data of a character
without the consent of the holders of these. On the other hand, it also confirms
that, despite being aware of this point and, in some cases, despite the time
elapsed, has not adopted the necessary measures to be able to
comply with GDPR. Reason why the history of infractions of the claimed party affects
in the culpability and unlawfulness of their conduct.

Article 76.2 b) LOPDGDD: "The link between the activity of the offender and the
tion of personal data processing”. The activity of the claimed entity requires
continuous processing of personal data. Likewise, the entity claims
da carries out for the development of its activity, a high volume of damage treatment
personal cough.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

Considering the exposed factors, the valuation that reaches the amount of the fine
is €4,000 for violation of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, regarding the violation of the
principle of confidentiality and €2,000 for infraction of article 32 of the aforementioned
RGPD, regarding the security of the processing of personal data.

viii

Responsibility

Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, in
Chapter III on the "Principles of the power to impose penalties", in article 28
under the heading “Responsibility”, the following:

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt.”

Lack of diligence in implementing appropriate security measures
with the consequence of breaching the principle of confidentiality constitutes the
element of guilt.

IX

Measures

Likewise, it is appropriate to impose the corrective measure described in article 58.2.d) of the
RGPD and order the claimed party to, within a month, establish the measures
adequate security measures so that the treatments are adapted to the demands
contemplated in articles 5.1 f) and 32 of the RGPD, preventing the occurrence of si-
similar situations in the future.

The text of the resolution establishes the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what measures to adopt, without prejudice
that the type of specific procedures, mechanisms or instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows your organization and has to decide, based on the
proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CLUB NAUTICO EL ESTACIO, with NIF G73044893, for a
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in accordance with the provisions of article
83.5 of the RGPD, qualified as very serious for prescription purposes in the article
72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of €4,000.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

SECOND: IMPOSE CLUB NAUTICO EL ESTACIO, with NIF G73044893, for
an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in accordance with the provisions of the
article 83.4 of the RGPD, qualified as serious for the purposes of prescription in article
73 f) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of €2,000.

THIRD: TO REQUEST the CLUB NAUTICO EL ESTACIO to implement, within a period of
one month, the necessary corrective measures to adapt their actions to the regulations
of protection of personal data, which prevent the repetition of events in the future
similar, as well as to inform this Agency within the same period about the measures
adopted.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to CLUB NAUTICO EL ESTACIO.

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

