


State parliament confirms Dagmar Hartge as state representative
- Published on 06/22/2023 - press release 05/2023




The Brandenburg state parliament today re-elected Dagmar Hartge for a further six years as state commissioner for data protection and the right to inspect files. Dagmar Hartge:

I am extremely pleased to be able to continue to carry out the tasks of the state commissioner for data protection and for the right to inspect files. I would like to thank the Brandenburg state parliament for the renewed trust and my employees for the great support through their daily work.

Hartge's election enables a continuous continuation of official business. The state commissioner intends to do everything in his power to face the existing challenges of data protection and freedom of information in the next six years:

I would like to use the new term of office to advise the authorities on the implementation of administrative digitization and to sensitize them to think about data protection from the very beginning. The use of artificial intelligence will also present us with major challenges in the future. Here I intend to support the state government and the municipalities intensively in order to find solutions with which the opportunities of the new technology can be used sensibly, but at the same time personal freedoms can be preserved. For the increasing online trading of Brandenburg companies, it is important to me to achieve more transparency in the processing of personal data of customers. I will be committed to supporting the further development of the right to inspect files and will continue to demand active publication obligations from the administration. I am happy to continue to advocate strong data protection and an effective right to inspect files in Brandenburg in the future.

The state commissioner for data protection and the right to inspect files is independent in the exercise of their office; the term of office is six years. Dagmar Hartge has held the office since she was first elected on May 19, 2005. The Brandenburg state parliament had already confirmed her by re-election in 2011 and 2017.
 


binder

ID number 05/2023
Date22.06.2023
Contact Sven Müller Poststelle@LDA.Brandenburg.de




