Case number:

Subject: Decision terminating the proceedings

NAIH / 2020/5911/7

Before the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: the Authority) a
University of Debrecen (represented by …  Data Protection Officer, established at 4028
Debrecen, Kassai út 26 .; hereinafter referred to as the Advertiser) is the MarkMyProfessor Media Advertisement
Szolgáltató Kft. (Registered office: 2040 Budaörs Kikelet utca A. building; hereinafter:
Customer or Notified) information about the processing of personal data
on the basis of a declaration of adequacy and a declaration of the rights of the data subject,
in an ex officio data protection official proceeding
DECISION
The Authority notes that:
the Notifier by failing to comply with those involved in the matter notified by the Applicant to the Authority
requests for the exercise of the data subject's right to information and the
within the one-month deadline provided for in the General Data Protection Regulation
infringed the data subject's right to information and the
principle of transparency.
It will give the Notified a warning about the violation found.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but from the date of notification
within 30 days of the application to the Metropolitan Court in an administrative lawsuit
can be challenged. The application must be submitted to the Authority, electronically, which is the case
forward it to the court together with his documents. Indicate the request for a hearing in the application
must. For those who do not receive a full personal tax exemption, there is an administrative lawsuit fee
HUF 30,000, subject to the right to record material taxes. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court, the legal
representation is mandatory.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Facts, antecedents
The Applicant filed a notification with the Authority on 11 June 2020 stating the rights of the Notified Person
the practice of handling their protests against the infringement of the
It did not receive a reply to its letter to the notified.
The Applicant provided information that the lecturers of the University of Debrecen had complained to him,
in which it was filed that the Notifier operated a website www.markmyprofessor.com
insulting remarks were made in connection with them.
According to the announcement, since mid-March 2020, an unknown person against several university lecturers, more
times, usually four waves a day (morning, noon, afternoon and evening), each
within a wave of one to two minutes, published an "assessment" consisting solely of obscene words.
For some negative comments, the instructors concerned can be found at www.markmyrofessor.com
They also complained in the "Report" interface at, reporting that the comments in question

in addition to their identity, they also violate markmyprofessor.com’s evaluation guidelines because “profanity,
rudeness ".
Instructors filed a notice with the Notifier on April 14, 2020, in compliance with the General Privacy Policy
the right of the data subject to object under Article 21 of Regulation
the Announcer that their personal information appearing on the Website is offensive to the Instructors
comments / ratings - delete. In the case of the University of Debrecen
The Dean of his faculty also filed a complaint with the Announced.
According to the Applicant, the Applicant did not investigate the complaint of either the Dean or the instructors, and they
nor did it provide any information on its assessment. Thereafter, the Applicant shall notify the interests and rights of the instructors
represented, by electronic means, a letter of complaint to the Notified Party on 22 April 2020,
in which, with reference to Article 21 of the General Data Protection Regulation, confirmed by the trainers
protested against the rights of the data subject and the cancellation of the infringing assessments.
Given that the Notifier did not respond to his letter this time, on 12 May 2020
he resubmitted the complaint to him and requested that it be complied with. That is the answer
times missed.
The Applicant subsequently approached the Authority and disregarded the protest concerned
requested that an investigation be carried out and that the content complained of be deleted.
On the basis of the notification, the Authority, in accordance with Article 57 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
and Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information.
initiated an investigation pursuant to Section 38 (3) (a) of the Information Act (hereinafter: the Information Act), and

1

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the processing of personal data by natural persons
the free movement of such data and repealing Regulation (EC) No 95/46
2

Article 21 - Right to object

1. The data subject shall have the right at any time to object to the processing of his or her personal data pursuant to Article 6 (1) (e) for reasons related to his or her situation.
or (f), including profiling based on those provisions. In this case, the data controller is personal
may not further process the data unless the controller demonstrates that the processing is justified by compelling legitimate reasons which:
take precedence over the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject or which
related to the protection of
2. Where personal data are processed for the direct acquisition of a business, the data subject shall have the right to object at any time to the
against the processing of personal data for this purpose, including profiling, in so far as it relates to the direct acquisition of business.
3. If the data subject objects to the processing of personal data for the direct acquisition of business, the personal data shall continue to be
cannot be treated for this purpose.
4. The right referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be expressly introduced at the latest at the time of the first contact with the data subject and
the relevant information shall be displayed clearly and separately from all other information.
5. In relation to the use of information society services and by way of derogation from Directive 2002/58 / EC, the
it may also exercise its right to object by automated means based on technical specifications.
6. Where personal data are processed for scientific and historical research or statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89 (1)
the data subject has the right to object to the processing of personal data concerning him or her on grounds relating to his or her own situation, unless
data processing is necessary for the performance of a task performed in the public interest.

2

In its letter dated 30 June 2020, the Notifier is bound by the contents of the notification
asked for information.
The Notifier did not respond within 15 days, so the Authority will investigate
closed and Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (3) - (4), ex officio data protection authority proceedings
initiated, during which it called on the Client to provide information in order to clarify the facts.
In its reply dated 14 September 2020, the Client informed the Authority that the reference was made
he did not receive any requests, presumably due to a technical error, and did not obtain them
note. The Applicant's objections to the ratings recorded on the website it manages
it was only informed of an order of the Authority to clarify the facts.
II. Applicable legal provisions
The Infotv. Section 2 (2)
the General Data Protection Regulation should be supplemented by the provisions set out therein
apply.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data, and
the exercise of the right of access to data in the public interest and in the public interest
free movement of personal data within the European Union
promoting. According to paragraph (2a) of the same section, the General Data Protection Decree a
the tasks and powers established for the supervisory authority under the jurisdiction of Hungary
in the General Data Protection Regulation and in this Act
exercised by the Authority.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), the enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
the Authority shall, at the request of the data subject, initiate a data protection authority procedure to that effect, and
may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings.
Subject to paragraph 3, the Authority shall initiate ex officio data protection proceedings if:
(a) on the basis of its investigation, finds that there has been an infringement of the law relating to the processing of personal data
has occurred or is imminent, and a summons or recommendation under section 56
to remedy the infringement or to eliminate the imminent threat of an infringement
Within the time limit set by the Authority,
(b) on the basis of its investigation, finds that there has been an infringement of the law relating to the processing of personal data
occurred or is imminent and the General Data Protection Regulation
a fine may be imposed in accordance with its provisions.
4. If the data protection authority procedure has been preceded by an investigation by the Authority based on a notification, the
the notifier shall be notified by the Authority of the initiation or termination of the data protection authority proceedings.
Pursuant to Section 3 (6) of the Information Act, public data in the public interest does not fall within the definition of data of public interest.
any information relating to which the disclosure, disclosure or
making it available in the public interest.
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation
shall apply to the processing of personal data in a partially or fully automated manner,
and the non - automated processing of personal data which:
are part of a registration system or are part of a registration system
they want to do.
3

According to Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "personal data" means identified or
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject");
a natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular by an identifier, e.g.
name, number, location data, online identifier or physical, physiological,
genetic, intellectual, economic, cultural or social identity
identifiable by a factor.
According to Article 4 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "data processing" means the processing of personal data
or any operation on automated or non - automated data files, or
a set of operations such as collecting, recording, organizing, segmenting, storing, or transforming
change, query, view, use, transmit, distribute or otherwise
harmonization or interconnection, restriction, deletion,
or destruction.
According to Article 4 (7) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "controller" means the natural or legal person
person, public authority, agency or any other body that provides personal data
determine the purposes and means of its management, alone or in association with others; if the data management
purposes and means are determined by Union or Member State law, the controller or the controller
EU or Member State law may also lay down specific criteria for the designation of
Personal data only under Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may be collected for, and not combined with, specific, clear and legitimate purposes
cannot be handled in a compatible way (‘purpose-based’).
Pursuant to Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data may only be used if and
can be lawfully managed if at least one of the following is met:
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes
treatment;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which one of the parties is a party; or
to take steps at the request of the data subject before concluding the contract
required;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(d) processing is in the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person
necessary for its protection;
(e) the exercise of a public interest or the exercise of official authority vested in the controller
necessary for the performance of its task;
(f) processing for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the data subject take precedence over those interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms which call for the protection of personal data,
especially if the child concerned.
Pursuant to Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
receive feedback from the data controller regarding the processing of your personal data
is in progress and if such data processing is in progress, you are entitled to personal
access to data and the following information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients with whom the personal data are held
have been or will be communicated, including in particular to third country consignees, and
international organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible,
criteria for determining this period;
4

(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
rectification, erasure or restriction on the processing of such personal data
against its treatment;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information on their source;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
understandable information about the significance of such data processing and what it is for the data subject
with expected consequences.
Pursuant to Article 17 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
at the request of the controller, delete the personal data concerning him without undue delay,
and the data controller is obliged to make the personal data concerning the data subject unjustified
delete without delay if one of the following reasons exists:
(a) personal data are no longer required for the purpose for which they were collected or for other purposes
treated;
(b) the data subject withdraws the authorization referred to in Article 6 (1) (a) or Article 9 (2)
consent to the processing, and there is no other consent to the processing
legal basis;
(c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21 (1) and there is no priority
lawful reason for the processing or the data subject objects in accordance with Article 21 (2)
against data management;
(d) personal data have been processed unlawfully;
(e) personal data are required by the law of the Union or Member State applicable to the controller
must be deleted in order to fulfill an obligation;
(f) the collection of personal data through the information society referred to in Article 8 (1)
in connection with the provision of related services.
Pursuant to Article 17 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the controller
has disclosed personal data and is required to delete them pursuant to paragraph 1,
taking into account the technology available and the cost of implementation
expected steps, including technical measures, to inform
data controllers that the data subject has requested them to provide the personal data in question
deleting links or copies or duplicates of such personal data.
Pursuant to Article 17 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, paragraphs 1 and 2 do not
applicable if data processing is required:
(a) for the purpose of exercising the right to freedom of expression and information;
(b) the Union or Member State law applicable to the controller governing the processing of personal data
or in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller
to perform a task performed in the exercise of a license;
(c) in accordance with Article 9 (2) (h) and (i) and Article 9 (3), a
on grounds of public interest in the field of public health;
(d) for the purposes of archiving in the public interest in accordance with Article 89 (1), scientific and
for historical research or statistical purposes, in so far as the right referred to in paragraph 1 is concerned
would be likely to make such processing impossible or seriously jeopardize; obsession
e) to file, enforce or defend legal claims.
The data controller's obligations related to the deletion of personal data are subject to general data protection
Article 12 of that Regulation.

5

Pursuant to Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is unjustified
without delay, but in any case within one month of receipt of the request
inform the data subject in accordance with Articles 15 to 22. on the action taken in response to a request under Article. Need
In view of the complexity of the application and the number of applications, this time limit shall be extended by two additional periods
may be extended by one month. The extension of the deadline by the data controller shall be the reasons for the delay
within one month of receipt of the request. If
the person has submitted the application electronically, the information shall be made possible, if possible, electronically
unless otherwise requested by the data subject.
Pursuant to Article 12 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the controller does not do so
measures at the request of the data subject without delay, but at the latest at the time of the request
within one month of receipt of the measure
and that the person concerned may lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority and may reside
with the right to judicial redress.
According to Article 12 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation, it concerns the rights of data subjects
requests, including the action taken on the request for cancellation and information on it
should be provided essentially free of charge. If the data subject's request is clearly unfounded
- due in particular to its repetitive nature - excessive, the data controller, depending on the information requested or
the administrative costs of providing the information or taking the action requested,
may charge a reasonable fee or refuse to act on the request. The application
the burden of proving that it is manifestly unfounded or excessive is on the controller.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory authority
(b) reprimands the controller or the processor if
breached the provisions of this Regulation.
According to the preamble to the General Data Protection Regulation (148), it is required by this Regulation
in order to strengthen compliance with the rules in the event of any breach of this Regulation
in addition to or instead of appropriate measures imposed by the competent authority under this Regulation
- including administrative fines.
Unless otherwise provided in the General Data Protection Regulation, data protection was initiated upon request
Act CL of the General Administrative Procedure of 2016 (a
hereinafter: Ákr.) shall apply with the exceptions specified in the Information Act.
In the present proceedings, as the requested official decision of the Notified Data Controller has the right or legitimacy
directly affects the interests of the Company. Pursuant to Section 10 (1) - with counter-interest -
participates as a customer.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 103 (1), the Ákr. Initiated ex officio proceedings upon request
provisions of the Act on It shall apply with the exceptions set out in Sections 103 and 104.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), it was taken in a data protection official proceeding
In its decision, the Authority With the data management operations specified in Section 2 (2)
in accordance with Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may apply legal consequences.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b), (c) and (d) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the data controller or the processor, acting in accordance with the corrective powers of the competent authority, if
6

its data processing activities have infringed the provisions of this Regulation; instructs the data controller or the
to exercise the data subject's rights under this Regulation
application; instructs the controller or processor to perform its data processing operations
bring this Regulation into line with the provisions of this Regulation
provisions.
Infotv. 75 / A. §, the Authority shall comply with Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation
shall exercise its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in particular by:
legislation on the processing of personal data or binding European Union law
for the first time in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation, in particular
by alerting the controller or processor.
***
III. Decision of the Authority
In the context of the right to information, the Authority states that “(…) information
In particular, in the age of society, there is a risk that some public and market players will
using large amounts of information using modern infocommunication technologies
collect, store and process it without the knowledge and consent of those concerned. This kind
dominance entails an increased risk of abuse, violation of the rights and interests of individuals.
The information is primarily intended to prevent the data controller from having “information
monopoly ”.” 3
It should also be emphasized that the information provided is timely and tailored to the request
transparency of the operation of the data controller, the data processing regime and the fair procedure
is also crucial for the enforcement of its requirement. The above principles
pursuant to Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation
without undue delay, but in any case from the receipt of the request
inform the data subject within 15 to 22 months. following an application under Article
measures. If necessary, taking into account the complexity of the application and the number of applications,
this period may be extended by a further two months.
Pursuant to Article 12 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the controller does not do so
measures at the request of the data subject without delay, but at the latest at the time of the request
within one month of receipt of the measure
and that the person concerned may lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority and may reside
with the right to judicial redress.
The right of access of data subjects is a constitutive element of the right to self-determination of information,
and, as such, is a key aspect of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. E
the essence of the right is that the data subject may receive information in connection with the processing. THE
and the information received enables the data subject to process the data in progress
exercise its rights or seek redress
you can take.

3

Explanation of GDPR - Wolters Kluwer Hungary, Budapest 2018. Page 150

7

Act V of 2006 on Company Disclosure, Court Proceedings and Liquidation 7.
§ (1), the registered office of the company is the registered office of the company. The registered office of the company is mailing
address, the place where the company's business and official documents are received, received, kept, available
and, where specified in a separate law, related to the registered office
obligations are met.
If the registered office of the company is not the same as the place of central administration, the central administration
its place must be indicated in the memorandum and articles of association. This can happen if you are headquartered
delivery address only; administration and decision-making related to the operation of the company from the registered office
takes place in a different place (central administration).
The Authority shall, on the basis of the information available to it, establish that the Notifier is a Notifier
sent his written application not to the registered office of the Notified Body but to its registered office,
thus, the First wave of the COVID-19 coronavirus epidemic was a difficulty for the Notifier
caused it to be known in an emergency and to provide a meaningful response in due time.
However, the data controller shall take all measures required of him during the processing of the data
must do and develop all work organization solutions in order to:
its own data management set out in and based on the General Data Protection Regulation
the completeness of the data subject's exercise in accordance with the data management principles set out in the prospectus
to comply with a mandatory obligation.
Therefore, the Authority does not consider it acceptable for the Client to claim that the Applicant and the
on the basis of requests from the parties concerned in the exercise of their rights as a data subject
he did not take action because he did not receive them.
Based on the above, the Authority has decided in accordance with the provisions of the operative part, but at the same time it is general
taking into account Article 83 of the Data Protection Regulation, in particular that
The Client shall submit the application of the Applicant and the persons involved in the case indicated by him through the Authority
fully complied with the recurrence of the infringement after becoming aware of it
measures taken in the future to prevent
did not consider it justified to impose a fine.
The Authority took into account as a mitigating circumstance that
- negligence on the part of the Notifier for an infringement found by the Authority and not intentional
his conduct led;
- receipt of the Authority's order for clarification of the facts in the present case
after, the Client from the website operated by the Client in the case of the Applicant and the case indicated by him
immediately, at the request of the parties concerned, deleted the content complained of, and
- set the personal profile of the data subjects in such a way that it affects their educational activities
further evaluations in the future should only be performed by registered users.
By alerting the Notifier, the Authority aims to give firm momentum to the Client
emphasis on data protection awareness and responsibility, the data management it performs
the need to make the activity more thoughtful. The Authority emphasizes that data protection
developing rights in accordance with rules and expectations, and
to help enforce their legitimate interests, control over the processing of their personal data
8

provide the information and other conditions necessary for the exercise of the
required.
***
ARC. Other issues
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) defines its jurisdiction as a whole
country.
The Ákr. Pursuant to § 112 and § 116 (1) and § 114 (1)
there is an administrative remedy against him.
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3) a)
Pursuant to sub-paragraph aa) of the Act, the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. Section 27 (1)
(b), legal representation shall be required in legal proceedings before the General Court. A Kp. Section 39 (6)
the submission of the application for the entry into force of the administrative act
has no suspensive effect.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter: the e-administration Act), the client's legal representative pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b)
obliged to communicate electronically.
The place and time of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The trial
Information on the possibility of requesting the maintenance of the It is based on § 77 (1) - (2). THE
the amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. Act (hereinafter:
Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1)
and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party initiating the proceedings.
Budapest, October 19, 2020 "19"
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor
sk.

9

