1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00376/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and in

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. President and legal representative of the Association of Mothers and Fathers
of Students of ***COLEGIO.1, (hereinafter, the claimant) dated April 30, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. the claim
is directed against CITY COUNCIL OF LA CARLOTA with NIF P1401700H (hereinafter, the
reclaimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the claimant as president and
legal representative of the Association of Mothers and Fathers of Students (AMPA) of the
***COLEGIO.1 registered a complaint at the Carlota town hall
about cleaning the school, and the Councilor for Education met with the cleaner of the
school to deal with this issue and gave him a copy of the complaint filed with the data
of the claimant or president of the AMPA, generating the dissemination of their data
personal and a great conflict.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to
carrying out preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts
in question, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD).

The aim is to inform the respondent of this claim on June 7,
2019, requiring you to submit to this Agency, within a period of one month, information
on the response given to the claimant for the facts denounced, as well as the causes
that have motivated the incidence and the measures adopted to adapt its “Policy of
Privacy” to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27
April 2016 (GDPR).

The Data Protection Delegate of the Córdoba Provincial Council answers that they have
signed agreement for its adaptation to the Data Protection regulations with the
councils, although at the moment the reported council does not have a policy of
privacy but they hope to solve it soon.

THIRD: On December 18, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

FOURTH: Notification of the aforementioned agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning party is given a hearing period of TEN WORKING DAYS to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate, in accordance with the
stipulated in articles 73 and 76 of Law 39/2015 on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations.

FIFTH: Not having made allegations or presented evidence within the given period,
proceeds to issue this resolution taking into account the following:

FACTS

FIRST: The claimant as president and legal representative of the Association of
Mothers and Fathers of Students (AMPA) of the ***COLEGIO.1 registered in the
city council of la Carlota of a complaint about the cleanliness of the school, and the councilor of
Education met with the school cleaner to discuss this issue and gave her a copy
of the complaint filed with the personal data of the claimant or president of the
AMPA, generating the dissemination of your personal data and a great conflict.
.

SECOND: This Agency transfers the claim received to the claimant, receiving
response from the Data Protection Delegate of the Córdoba Provincial Council affirming
that have signed an agreement for its adaptation to the Data Protection regulations with
councils, although at the moment the reported council does not have a policy of
privacy, but they hope to resolve it soon.

The present sanctioning procedure is opened and after the term
of allegations, the respondent has not sent any statement in this regard.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the

treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for

those that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data that is
inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data; the
personal data may be kept for longer periods as long as they are processed
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to
the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this
Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the term
of conservation”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions

in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

For its part, article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the
information that must be provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data,
has:

  “1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide you with all the
information listed below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their

representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis

legal treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests

legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their

case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in articles
46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to adequate guarantees
or appropriate and the means to obtain a copy of them or the fact that they have been
borrowed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
information, the following information necessary to guarantee fair data processing
and transparent:

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to
the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to the portability of the
data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide the
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing such
data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information about that other purpose and
any additional relevant information pursuant to paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

III

In the present case, the delivery of the personal data of the
claimant to a third party without his consent, by giving himself to a person in charge of the
cleaning of a school, a copy with your complaint as president of the AMPA of said
college.

In response to the request for information after sending this Agency transfer of the
claim object of this procedure, the Data Protection Delegate of the
The Córdoba Provincial Council replies that they have signed an agreement for its adaptation to the
Data Protection regulations with the municipalities, although at the moment the
The reported town hall does not have a privacy policy, but they hope to resolve it soon.

Thus, we proceed to the opening of this sanctioning procedure and
After the period for pleadings, the aforementioned municipality claimed, has not sent
any statement about it.

For all these reasons, it is considered that the known facts, that is, that the councilor of
Education of the aforementioned town hall when meeting with the school cleaner to deal with a
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

complaint about the cleanliness of the center give you a copy of the complaint with the data
of the claimant (president of the AMPA of the aforementioned association), supposes a
infringement, attributable to the defendant, for violation of the principles of "limitation of the
purpose” and “integrity and confidentiality” of art. 5.1 b) and f) of the RGPD.

IV

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

The art. 83.5 of the RGPD establishes that infractions that affect:

“a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22.”

v

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain categories of

responsible or in charge of the treatment, establishes the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of

those who are responsible or in charge:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions
of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this
organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the conduct or correct the
effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the protection authority
of data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
sufficient evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
result of application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that are not
had been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the sanction is imposed,
will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and order the
publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.

4. The resolutions must be communicated to the data protection authority
that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions
issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional authority for the protection of
data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what your
specific regulations”.

SAW

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its
section 2 d) establishes that each control authority may “order the person responsible or
in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the
provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and
within a specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the
sanction consisting of an administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE LA CARLOTA CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P1401700H, by
an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD in relation to article 5 of the LOPDGDD,
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: REQUEST LA CARLOTA CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P1401700H, to
in accordance with article 58.2.b) of the RGPD so that within one month from the
notification of this resolution, certify:

-The adoption of all necessary measures so that the denounced entity
act in accordance with the principles of "purpose limitation" and "integrity
and confidentiality» of art. 5.1 b) and f) of GDPR respectively.

-The adoption of the necessary measures to update its “Privacy Policy”
to current regulations on the protection of personal data, -Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (RGPD)-, adapting the information offered to the requirements
contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD, and must provide users, with
prior to the collection of their personal data, all the
information required in the aforementioned precept, for which said company must have
taking into account the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD in relation to the legality of the
treatment.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance
with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this agreement to the CITY COUNCIL OF LA CARLOTA with NIF
P1401700H,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this

Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the
LOPD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
from the day following the notification of this resolution, or, directly appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the High Court
National, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

