

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of disclosure of children's personal data (Mateřská škola Děčín XXXII)



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection of the kindergarten. The subject of the initiative was the publication of a list of children who had arrears for pre-school education and meal allowances, and a list of children who did not show up for enrollment in pre-school education.

Legal regulations impose on school facilities the obligation to process the personal data of pupils in the so-called school matrix in the scope of first name, surname and place of permanent residence. However, no legal regulation allows the controlled person to publish the personal data of children on the nursery school bulletin board due to unpaid debts to the school, nor to publish the personal data of children who did not attend preschool education. The Office found a violation of Section 5, Paragraph 2 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (legal title for processing).

It is clear from the control findings that the children's personal data were also made available to third parties, i.e. that the controlled person did not take such measures to prevent unauthorized or accidental access to personal data, their alteration, destruction or loss, unauthorized transfers, other unauthorized processing, as well as other misuse of personal data. The Office therefore also found a violation of § 13, paragraph 1 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (taking security measures).

Given that the inspected person immediately corrected the objectionable condition, the Office did not impose corrective measures and waived the imposition of a fine.

The inspection was conducted by Inspector Mgr. Daniel Rowan.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Sitemap > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspections according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Inspection of disclosure of children's personal data (Mateřská škola Děčín XXXII)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



