1/12

937-240719
Procedure No.: PS/00304/2019

RESOLUTION R/00532/2019 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00304/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to IBERDROLA CLIENTES, SAU, given the complaint
presented by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 20, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against IBERDROLA
CLIENTES, SAU (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00304/2019

935-240719

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated March 1, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against IBERDROLA CLIENTES, SAU, with NIF A9575839 (in
later, the claimed one). The grounds on which your claim is based are that,
initially, he contracted the electricity supply of his home with the respondent, and
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

later, when he rented it, he changed ownership of the supply to the name of the
tenant. In this regard, it states that, at the end of the contract of
lease, contacted the claimed party to proceed again to change the owner
supply and inform you that there are unpaid invoices.

Thus, after paying the debt, he requests it again, and they tell him that
cannot be carried out since your data is included in the SOLCENT file.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim, of the
documents provided by the claimant, of the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

On October 30, 2018, the claim was transferred to the respondent

within the framework of the actions with reference E/8056/2018.

On March 1, 2019, the respondent has sent the following to the Agency

information in relation to the facts denounced:

1.- After analyzing the claim filed by the complainant, they have
determined that he had his rented home and that on October 5, 2016 he changed
ownership of the supply contract in the name of the tenant.

2.- When you request the change of ownership, at the end of the contract, you are informed

that there are several unpaid invoices.

3.- On August 10, 2018, the debt is paid and proceeds to give

registration of the contract in the name of the complainant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

On March 11, 2019, IBERDROLA is required to provide information on
relation to the SOLCENT file to which the claimant refers and on the
possible inclusion of your data in the solvency files. The letter is sent by
@notifica and it is delivered to the company that same day.

As of the date of this report (May 31, 2019), IBERDROLA has not given

response to the request for information.

THIRD: According to the documentation in the file, it is accredited
that the Spanish Agency for Data Protection addressed the entity responsible for
Iberdrola requesting information on the facts subject to inspection, in two
occasions. Thus, on the one hand, they answered the first of the date requirements
October 30, 2018, and on the other they did not respond to the second of them, that of October 11
March 2019, which constitutes the factual budget of an alleged infringement of
the personal data protection regulations.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

Article 58 of the RGPD, “Powers”, states:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

         (…)

i) impose an administrative fine under Article 83, in addition to or instead of
of the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of the
particular case

         (…)”

III

The obligations that the RGPD imposes in general on those responsible and
treatment managers are regulated by articles 24 to 31. Among them article 31
refers to the "Cooperation with the Control Authority" that indicates:

“The person in charge and the person in charge of treatment and, where appropriate, their representatives,
They will cooperate with the control authority that requests it in the performance of their duties.
functions”.

Failure to comply with such obligation constitutes an infringement of the RGPD typified

in its article 83.4:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 100,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8,

11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43,

(…)”

           

  For its part, the LOPDGDD typifies in article 72.1 as very

serious the following:

“(…)

ñ) Failure to facilitate access by data protection authority personnel
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

exercise of its investigative powers.

The LOPDGDD dedicates to the "Powers of investigation and audit plans
preventive" articles 51 to 54. The aforementioned Organic Law 3/2018 specifies in its
article 51.1 that “The Spanish Agency for Data Protection will develop its
research activity through the actions provided for in Title VIII and
preventive audit plans” (emphasis is from the AEPD). In turn, the title
VIII of the Organic Law regulates in its article 67 the "Previous actions of
research".

IV

The documentation in the file shows that within the framework of the
Previous investigation actions E/01919/2019 the Data Inspection of the
AEPD made an informative request to the respondent, to which she did not respond. The
The request was signed electronically on March 11, 2019, on the same date
was made available to the claimed person through the notification system and was also
accepted by her. Such extremes are evidenced by the Certificate of the Service of
Electronic Notifications and Authorized Electronic Address of the FNMT that works in
The file.

As stated in the Report of Previous Actions, dated 05/31/2019:
“On March 11, 2019, Iberdrola is requested information regarding the
SOLCENT file to which the complainant refers and about the possible inclusion
of your data in solvency files. The letter is sent by @notifica and consists
delivered to the company that same day.

As of the date of this report (May 31, 2019), Iberdrola has not given

response to the request for information.

 

The refusal of the respondent to collaborate with the investigation of the authority

Spanish data protection.

v

In the determination of the administrative fine that corresponds to impose,
to observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that
point out:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of
data.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

Without prejudice to what results from the instruction of the procedure, in order to set the
amount of the sanction of a fine that would be appropriate to impose on the one claimed by the
alleged infringement of the RGPD, in an initial assessment, it is appreciated that the
following factors:

Regarding the infringement of article 31 of the RGPD typified in article 83.2. GDPR:

-The close link between the activity of the claimed party and the processing of
personal data (article 83.2.k, RGPD in relation to 76.2.b, of the
LOPDGDD)

- It is also necessary to take into account the conduct of the entity that cooperated with this
Agency at first sending the requested information. Nevertheless,
did not respond to the request dated March 11, 2019, requesting
to IBERDROLA information in relation to the SOLCENT file to which it makes
reference the complainant and about the possible inclusion of their data in the files
of solvency. The letter is sent by @notifica and is delivered to the company
the same day.

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on Iberdrola and

set it at the amount of €10,000 for the infringement of article 31 of the RGPD.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

HE REMEMBERS:

1.

START SANCTION PROCEDURE against IBERDROLA CLIENTES, SAU,
with NIF A9575839, for the alleged infringement of article 31 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679, typified in article 83.4 of the aforementioned RGPD.

1. APPOINT D.R.R.R. as instructor. and as secretary to Ms. S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with
what is established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, of
Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

two.

INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for purposes of evidence, the claim
filed by the claimant and its attached documentation; documents
obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
during the investigation phase, as well as the report of previous actions
of Inspection.

3. THAT, for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the sanction that could correspond would be 10,000 euros (ten thousand
euros) for the infraction, without prejudice to what results from the instruction of the
process.

4. NOTIFY this agreement to IBERDROLA CLIENTES, SAU, with NIF
A9575839, granting a hearing period of ten business days for
formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate.
In your brief of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at 8,000 euros (eight thousand euros), resolving the procedure with the
imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 8,000 euros (eight thousand euros) and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 6,000 euros (six thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts

indicated above (8,000 or 6,000 euros), you must make it effective through your
Deposit in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating
in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On October 15, 2019, the respondent has proceeded to pay the
sanction in the amount of 8,000 euros making use of one of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, there is no
accredited acknowledgment of responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Home Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00304/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to IBERDROLA CLIENTES, SAU.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

