THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for Data Protection
and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

October 27, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 Data protection goes to school - VfB goes with it

 
The VfB dedicates to the project "Privacy goes to school".

immediately a comprehensive presence on your own website.

Videos will be published there over the course of the season

explain various aspects of data protection and

give useful tips. The commitment is above all

to children and young people for whom dealing with the

Internet already normality

is. However, you can too

Adults benefit from the instructional videos. Besides, it is

planned that data protection experts in training courses and in

their teaching concepts for students

the VfB videos can fall back on.

 

The prelude is a first video in which the VfB

CEO

Thomas Hitzlsperger

and

the

State representative

for

the data protection

and

the

Freedom of Information Baden-Württemberg, Dr. Stefan Brink,

on data protection and the project “Data protection goes to

School – VfB goes along”.

Thomas Hitzlsperger says: “I am very happy about the

constructive and cooperative partnership with the

State data protection officer and his team. The VfB

reaches many people. We want to use that to do the work

to support the authority and

especially

Boy

people

for themes

about data protection

sensitize. For us it is also an opportunity to show

that we continue to develop in this area as well

want to live up to our role as a role model.”

dr Stefan Brink says: "VfB takes responsibility and

is committed to ensuring that children and young people in the age

more aware of digitization with their own data

evade. Athletes are also role models, and their exemplary

Acting can support other young people to get involved

to deal with data protection issues.

The spokesman for the initiative "Data protection goes to school" Rudi

Kramer: "We are happy that VfB have played in a one-two with the

LfDI Baden-Württemberg us in the awareness-raising work

supported and with vivid examples of the conscious

handling sensitive data makes a contribution."

To the background:

Project of the initiative "Privacy goes to school".

BvD e.V., VfB Stuttgart and LfDI Baden-

Wuerttemberg

In March

2021 became

a 

data protection law

Fine procedure by the state representative for the

Data protection and freedom of information against VfB

Stuttgart with the payment of a fine.

In addition, VfB committed to far-reaching

measures to do that

technical and organizational

level of privacy

to

to enhance. In addition

heard

in

Coordination with the state data protection officer

active participation in the project "Data protection goes to school".

VfB is committed to being an ambassador for data protection

in children and young people.

 

The project “Privacy goes to school” is an initiative

of

professional association

the

Data Protection Officer

Deutschlands (BvD) e.V., which the students

sensitized to the topics of data protection and IT security.

A conscious handling of own and third-party data and

information stands

in the centre. The LfDI Baden

Wuerttemberg

and

other

state data protection authorities

have been supporting this project for more than 10 years now

years. The data protection experts visit

nationwide schools with teaching concepts.

 

Detailed information on "Privacy goes to school"

is available on the website of the professional association of

Data Protection Officer

of Germany

(BvD)

registered association:

https://www.bvdnet.de/datenschutz- geht-zur-schule/

 

Recommend for more information on data protection

we the homepage of the state commissioner for data protection

and

Freedom of Information:

https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/

 

Further information:

VfB Stuttgart

and

the professional association

the

Data protection officers of Germany (BvD) e.V. have a

same press release sent.

