
DetailHomeNewsDetail


05/25/2023
Data protection on the right track - 5 years DS-GVO 5 years ago today, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into effect. At the time, many expected a big bang that would change everything. Despite these expectations, then as now, those who had already complied with the data protection regulations before the DS-GVO were well positioned, because the DS-GVO also brought innovations, but above all it consolidated and standardized the specifications that had also been in place before already applied in many member states. Information and advice against fear of innovations. The state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI) initially wanted to inform the public bodies and authorities in Rhineland-Palatinate and the companies operating in Rhineland-Palatinate. Palatinate have their branch, not to be left alone with the innovations and uncertainties. For this reason, in the months before the regulation came into force, he and his authorities had already informed municipalities, companies, administrations and freelancers, such as doctors and psychotherapists, about the innovations of the GDPR and the state government with the necessary information advise and support legislative measures. Many of the information networks set up at that time are still in existence today, such as the round table of the Rhineland-Palatinate economy Source of information for administration, companies and citizens. The initiative "Treated well with security", established by the LfDI in cooperation with the Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians, the Rhineland-Palatinate State Chamber of Physicians and the Rhineland-Palatinate State Chamber of Psychotherapists, also prepared the innovations of the GDPR for doctors and psychotherapists in a target group-oriented manner and offers follow-up as before, important assistance for practical implementation.Effective legal protection for data subjects The effectiveness of the GDPR quickly became apparent. Complaints from data subjects who wanted to enforce their data protection rights increased sharply, the number of reports of data protection violations rose steadily and the number of requests for advice was also constantly high. This required an increase in personnel in the authority and also a partial restructuring. “My agency has grown to meet increasing challenges. To do this, I have centralized certain areas, such as the processing of data breaches and legal enforcement, in order to ensure uniform handling and relieve the specialist departments. This has proven its worth,” summarizes the state representative, Prof. Dr. Kugelmann.Uniform data protection and data protection supervisionUniform data protection in Europe means, in particular, uniform data protection supervision. This requires cooperation, coordination and coherence. The cooperation mechanisms in the DS-GVO are working and the data protection supervisory authority in Germany has reorganized itself in order to bring its wide-ranging expertise to the European discourse on data protection and the interpretation of the DS-GVO in a powerful and united way. Last but not least, the data protection conference, the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments, makes an important contribution to this. "The data protection conference has developed into an important, nationally and internationally recognized expert and supervisory body and has become increasingly institutionalized in order to provide quick and well-founded answers to the urgent questions of data protection and digitization from the economy, the public sector and last but not least society can.” comments Prof. Dr. Kugelmann these developments of the data protection conference, which he accompanies as chairman of the DSK 2.0 working group. With a stronger back into the future After 5 years of effectiveness of the DS-GVO, the fairway is becoming calmer, but by no means slower. Because the "Data Acts" that have been passed or are currently being negotiated at European level, e.g. B. the AI regulation, new tasks, new delimitation questions and perhaps also new responsibilities for the data protection supervisory authorities. In addition, there are new, forward-looking technologies and sectors that require data protection support. "Artificial intelligence (AI) has been a topic for me since 2019, which urgently needs to be accompanied by data protection law. The DSK – under my chairmanship at the time – made the start with the Hambach Declaration. In it, we show how data protection-compliant AI can be possible. We would like to advance this further,” explains Prof. Dr. Kugelman. But the state commissioner would also like to use his expertise to actively support the state government's plan to establish Rhineland-Palatinate as a leading location for biotechnology. but also the scope for the development of future-oriented, modern technologies and digitization projects. The provisions of the regulation are of great importance for the citizens. With this good tool in hand, I would like to accompany the change processes in the information society effectively, constructively and in a future-oriented manner in Rhineland-Palatinate, in Europe and beyond.”
return




