

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in connection with the operation of the so-called alternative taxi service Liftago (ADLER Mobility, s.r.o. company)



On the basis of the inspection plan for 2018, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was compliance with obligations in the processing of personal data of passengers and drivers in connection with the operation of the application of the so-called alternative taxi service Liftago, which is operated and provided by the company ADLER Mobility, s.r.o. In this matter, the inspectors checked in particular the collection, storage, provision and disposal of personal data (retention policy), from the point of view of the basic principles of personal data processing set out in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the legality of processing according to Article 6 of this Regulation. They also focused on compliance with the rights of data subjects, both in connection with transparency and the fulfillment of the information obligation pursuant to Articles 12 and 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the right to access personal data pursuant to Article 15 of this Regulation, and in connection with with the right to correction and erasure according to Articles 16 and 17 of this regulation and the right to object according to Article 21 of the regulation in question. The auditors found that the company enables the granting of consents structured according to individual purposes through the Liftago application. The Office also checked the fulfillment of the administrator's obligations when adopting appropriate technical and organizational measures pursuant to Article 24 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, concluded processing contracts and security of personal data pursuant to Articles 32 and 33 of this Regulation. The Office did not find violation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The inspection was conducted by the inspector MVDr. František Bartoš. Recommendation: The Office has been dealing with the processing of personal data in connection with shared economy services for a long time. If you suspect that your personal data is not processed in accordance with legal regulations, please contact the administrator who performs the processing in the first instance with a request for an explanation and information. The administrator is fundamentally obliged to process your request without unnecessary delay, within one month at the latest. If the administrator does not handle the request on time or if you are not satisfied with the handling, you can contact the Office. It is necessary to document the request and the administrator's possible response to it.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Sale of goods and services > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with the operation of the so-called alternative taxi services Liftago (company ADLER Mobility, s.r.o.)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



