21.09.2022
Penalty for GDPR violation

In August 2022, the National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at the operator Curtea Veche Publishing SRL and found a violation of the provisions of art. 32 para. (1) lit. b) and c) and para. (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The operator was penalized for contravention with a fine of 24,566 lei (equivalent to 5000 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of the transmission by the operator of some notifications of personal data security violations under the General Data Protection Regulation.
One of the data security breaches occurred as a result of the posting on a public forum of a file containing the operator's customer database from 2019 to 2021.
This situation led to the unauthorized disclosure of certain personal data, such as name, surname, telephone number, e-mail, password in encrypted form, IP address from which the user account was created, of a number of 10739 customers of the operator.
The second data security breach occurred as a result of a ransomware attack, which led to unauthorized access and loss of integrity and availability of certain personal data of approx. 100 data subjects (employees and collaborators of Curtea Veche Publishing SRL).
During the investigation, the National Supervisory Authority found that the operator did not implement adequate technical and organizational measures in order to ensure a level of security corresponding to the processing risk for the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
As such, the operator Curtea Veche Publishing SRL was fined 24,566 lei (the equivalent of 5000 EURO) for violating the provisions of art. 32 para. (1) lit. b) and c) and para. (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
At the same time, the operator was also given the corrective measure to review and update the technical and organizational measures implemented as a result of the risk assessment for the rights and freedoms of individuals and the work procedures related to the protection of personal data, including through the implementation of additional IT solutions data security.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.