1/11

 File No.: PS/00464/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated July 27, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against CITY COUNCIL OF ***CITY COUNCIL.1 with CIF
*** CIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party).

The reason on which the claim is based is that the councilors of the aforementioned city council
have general and indiscriminate access to the documents of the Entry Registry of the
City hall.

The claimant claims to know the facts when in the Ordinary Plenary Session of the Municipality
of *** TOWN HALL.1 of January 30, 2020, it became clear that all
councilors of the corporation have free access to the entry register and
departures from the City Council, even making express reference to registration numbers
matters outside their respective areas of management or competence.

On July 16, 2020, a councilor from the corporation confirms the aforementioned accesses, and
acknowledges having agreed to a request submitted by the claimant.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on September 25, 2020, said transfer was made
claim to the claimed party, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform the
this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to
the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

No response has been received to this letter.

THIRD: On December 9, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

On June 15, 2021, the respondent sends this Agency the following
information and demonstrations:

1.
That the dispute arises from the situation created by reason of the
motion presented by all the opposition councilors of the City Council of
*** TOWN HALL.1, where it is requested that they be provided with access to the full content of
the Entry Records of the City Council, which was approved in a Plenary Session of
date January 30, 2020.

Provides Minutes of the ordinary session, held by the Plenary on January 30, 2020
where it consists:

“Submitted the Motion to a vote, the Corporation by eight votes in favor (1 from the PSOE, 2
from UNPA, 2 from *** TOWN HALL. 1 May, 1 from VOX, 1 from IU-RPS and 1 from the councilor
not attached), and with seven abstentions (4 from the PP and 3 from Ciudadanos), agreed:

Make available to opposition councilors immediate access to all and
each of the entry and exit records existing in the different
Departments of the City Council, exactly the same as the current access that now
have the General Registry of entries and exits, to know each and every one of
the writings that are received and dispatched in the Consistory, in order to carry out their
control and oversight work, which as opposition councilors have
entrusted, in a complete and unbiased way.”

Provides Minutes of the extraordinary session, held by the Plenary on July 20, 2020
where it consists:

"FIRST. Approval of the availability of councilors who are not
part of the government team access, within a maximum period of one week from the
celebration of the plenary session, to each and every one of the entry and exit registers
existing in the different departments of the City Council.
The proponents accept that it is Except for the auxiliary records of Income and
Collection, as indicated in the Secretariat Report. Next, open the
turn of interventions, there is a succession of those that appear in the audio of the session, which are
find in the file.

The Corporation was put to the vote by nine votes in favor (3 from the PSOE, 2 from UNPA,
2 from *** TOWN HALL.1 May, 1 from VOX and 1 from IU-Republicans), and eight in
against (4 from the PP, 3 from Ciudadanos and 1 from the non-attached Councilor), agreed to put
disposition of the councilors who are not part of the government team the access,
within a maximum period of one week from the holding of the plenary session, to each and every
one of the entry and exit registers existing in the different departments of the
City Hall, with the exception of the auxiliary records of Income and Collection.”

two.
That two contradictory reports have been prepared as to their
recommendations. In the first report, from the DPD, he opposes this massive access and
which indicates that the initial access of the Councilors must be limited to the matter and number of
file, eliminating from this first consultation the possibility of accessing any
personal information. That in the second report written by the General Secretary

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

and following the recommendations of the Consultant ESPUBLICO, justifies the need
of such indiscriminate access, so that the councilors can do their job.

A copy of the DPD report dated and signed on 03/10/2020 is provided, where it is stated
as a conclusion that:

“[…]
this access must be limited (at first) to the subject and file number,
eliminating from this list all the personal data of the interested party.
Subsequently, the councilor, and on the issues he considers, must direct
written to the Mayor's Office identifying by its number the file to which you request access and
the cause of his interest, so that, after considering the need, the Mayor
access or deny it, always in a motivated manner.
[…]”

A copy of the report of the General Secretariat dated and signed on 03/06/2020 is provided
where it is concluded that:

“V CONCLUSIONS
1   . Opposition councilors currently have electronic access to
General Entry and Exit Registries, the proposed agreement is that they have it
also to the rest of the Auxiliary Registries of the City Council: Culture, Collection,
Rents, Urbanism, Secretariat and Personnel.

2. The Auxiliary Revenue and Collection Registries could have a
specific if they contain tax data, subject to the limitations provided in the
General Tax Law. art. 95 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, General
Tributaria (LGT), which in section 1 states that: "The data, reports or
records obtained by the tax administration in the performance of its
functions are reserved and may only be used for the effective
application of taxes. "Which does not prevent you from requesting access to the
specific files of these matters, in the terms of articles 14 to 16 of the
ROF.

3. By considering the councilor of the opposition as "assignee" of protected data, it is
is considering him "third", when he is part of the Public Administration
(authorities, officials and employees) who use the personal data of the
citizens in their daily duties and jobs.

4. Law 39/2015 establishes the right and obligation to interact electronically
with the Public Administrations.

5. In any case, it should be remembered that the councilors who access this information
They may only use the data within the scope of their competences, since this is
the limit established in the Law of Bases of Local Regime.

However, and in accordance with the purpose limitation principle, Article
5.1 .b) of the RGPD, the data must be processed to control the activity of the entity of the
corresponding Local Administration, since another use would be incompatible with said
purpose, not being able to publicize these data or communicate them to any third party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

Therefore, the approval of the availability of the
councilors who are not part of the access government team, to each and every one
of the entry and exit records existing in the different departments of the
City Hall, with the exception of those for Collection and Income, may only be used
for the effective application of taxes.

Provides a copy of an email sent by the Mayor on 09

3.
June 2021 and sent to ***EMAIL.1, where it is stated that:

“[…]

At the beginning of the Legislature, I declared my intention to give the Opposition access to the
different registers of entry, exit and Decrees. After passing half of it,
It is clear that some councilors have not complied with their duty
secrecy and responsibility regarding the processing of information, which has
caused that some neighbors have presented complaints and even denunciations.
We even have a judicial process open pending resolution or sentence
for a similar case.

For all these reasons and in a definitive manner, the Agency will be sent as many
reports and processes are considered to be necessary, to establish in this
and in future situations, the access and the form of treatment of the information with
Regarding the Records by the Councillors.

For the time being, the entry and exit registers that they consider to be
clarified, they must follow the rule given in the ROF, justifying their need and the
information requested, electronically. Likewise, the Decrees will be sent to
all Councilors every fortnight, beginning with the last of May and
continuing with June, until having the corresponding report from the Agency, in order to
comply with the Law as scrupulously as necessary for the development and security of
all the members of the Corporation and our neighbors.”

Four.
Regarding access to the entry and exit registers by the councilors
manifested in a report issued by the Department of New Technologies dated
06/14/2021:

“Politicians with government responsibilities: who have access to records
general input and output registers and auxiliary registers according to their
delegated responsibilities, for example, to the personnel register, only the
mayor."

“Politicians without government responsibilities (opposition): They have access to the application
from a web server, which means they can be accessed from anywhere and
device to check-in and check-out books. Currently from the books
input and output can check the reference (title), date and registration number and
If you need more information, you must submit a request for registration of
entry indicating requested registration number and purpose of the request.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

Dated September 17, 2021 CITY COUNCIL OF ***CITY COUNCIL.1
sends this Agency the following information and statements:

1.
That, since the beginning of the mandate of this Corporation, the councilors of the
opposition had access to the General Entry and Exit Registries. These accesses
they comprised the different lists and the specific Entry or Exit document. That
they did not have access to some special records such as Personnel, Urbanism and
Collection.

two.
That, due to the complaint of a neighbor, apparently, by the diffusion by some
data councilor of the General Entry Registry, as of June 1, 2021, the
Mayor ordered that these accesses be invalidated and from that date the Councilors of
the opposition can see the lists of the Entry and Exit Registry but they do not have
access to documents. They must expressly request the entry documents and
Exit that they need to know to carry out their opposition work and they are provided
prior resolution of the Mayor's Office.

3.
That since August 1, 2019, the VOX Councilor has made 2,353
actions on the records and documents management system of the Municipality of
*** TOWN HALL.1. That none of these actions corresponds to any
record or document relating to the claimant's entries.

FIFTH: On October 15, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

SIXTH: After the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the agreement
of the beginning of the procedure, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding-
establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, when it contains a precise statement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal. In the
present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the party complained against has made no objections to the agreement to initiate the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

FACTS

FIRST: The councilors of the aforementioned city council have general and
indiscriminately to the documents of the Town Hall Entry Register.

SECOND: On October 18, 2021, the claimant is notified of the settlement agreement
beginning of this procedure, turning said agreement into a resolution proposal
in accordance with articles 64.2.f) and 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP), to the
not make the claimed allegations within the indicated period.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The RGPD in its article 5, "Principles related to the treatment" says that "The data
personal will be:

a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

longer than necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; the
Personal data may be kept for longer periods provided that it is
processed exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1,
without prejudice to the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures that
This Regulation is imposed in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
interested party (“limitation of the retention period”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

The infraction for which the defendant is held responsible is provided for in article 83.5
of the RGPD that establishes:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:
a)
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

In turn, the LOPDGDD in its article 72.1.a) qualifies as a very serious infraction,
purposes of prescription, “a) The processing of personal data violating the
principles and guarantees established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment, establishes the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions of
autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are
related to the exercise of powers of public law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
sufficient evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
result of application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to
the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity
of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional authority for the protection of
data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what your
specific regulations”.

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.
Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;”
(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”
“i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;"

v

In the present case, as a consequence of the indiscriminate and free access of the
councilors of the city council object of the present claim, to the documents that
were attached to the inscriptions of the general registers of entry and exit of the
aforementioned consistory, the data protection regulations have been infringed, since a
councilor of the claimed city council has had access to a request from the claimant
despite the fact that this was not necessary for the exercise of its functions, which supposes a
infringement of article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, as indicated in the grounds of
right II.

The council object of conflict, has recognized the facts and has addressed this
Agency stating that as of June 1, 2021, measures have been adopted
in such a way that free access to the general registry of this
council from that date, so that the opposition councilors only
will be able to access the existing documents to carry out their work of opposition, prior
Mayor's resolution.
Despite this, this Agency is going to direct a warning against the town hall, for the
personal data that prior to the measure adopted by the aforementioned
town hall on June 1, 2021, were processed in violation of article 5.1 c) RGPD,
that regulates the principle of data minimization, establishing that they cannot
processing more data than is strictly necessary for the purpose pursued,
Therefore, the data must be “adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in
relation to the purposes for which they are processed.
However, a warning will be sent without the need to adopt measures by
claimed, since the necessary measures have already been taken to
rectify the ailment that caused this claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE TO TOWN HALL OF *** TOWN HALL.1, with CIF
*** CIF.1, for an infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5
of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: REQUEST TO TOWN HALL OF *** TOWN HALL.1, with CIF
*** CIF.1, under the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, which adopts the
measures necessary to comply with the principle of data minimization regulated
in article 5.1 c) of the RGPD.

Said measures must be adopted within a period of one month computed from the date
in which this sanctioning resolution is notified, and the means must be provided
proof of compliance.

THIRD:
*** TOWN HALL.1.

 NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF

FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

