Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, on Friday, January 26, 2024, on the occasion of the European Data Protection Day, organized a conference titled "Entrepreneurs and New Technologies" aimed at small and medium-sized entrepreneurs at Ericsson Nikola Tesla. Considering that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs often do not have sufficient financial and human resources necessary for compliance with data protection regulations, the Agency, together with partners within the ARC II (Awareness Raising Campaign on Data Protection for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises) project, decided to contribute to entrepreneurs with a web tool called "Olivia."

"I am pleased that this year's European Data Protection Day is being celebrated in a working atmosphere with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We have listened to your needs through the training sessions we held for over two thousand entrepreneurs across Croatia and have identified the need to create a web tool that will assist you in aligning your business with the GDPR. The web tool 'Olivia' was created in synergy with data protection experts and the academic community from the Republic of Croatia and Italy, and we are extremely proud of it. I believe that all entrepreneurs will recognize its value and use it regularly in their business," stated Director Zdravko Vukić, extending his congratulations on the occasion of European Data Protection Day.

Mr. Gordana Kovačević, President of the Ericsson Nikola Tesla company, welcomed the attendees and expressed satisfaction that the role of host for this ceremony was entrusted to Ericsson Nikola Tesla. She particularly emphasized the importance of personal data protection as well as the challenges that come with it. "As a leader in ICT, we are very much aware of our role because the advancement in technology that comes with new dimensions of the internet, augmented reality technology, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and super-fast networks opens up numerous opportunities but also brings ethical and legal challenges in the field of data protection. While we celebrate European Data Protection Day, we commit to further promoting awareness of the importance of this topic and addressing the challenges posed by the application of advanced technologies. In this way, we not only protect the privacy and rights of individuals but also pave the way towards a digital future that is inclusive, responsible, and respects our shared values."

State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Hrvoje Bujanović emphasized that the adoption of the GDPR in 2018 represented an exceptional and significant civilizational shift for the European Union towards systemic protection of citizens' privacy and that the Olivia tool will certainly facilitate compliance with the Regulation for entrepreneurs, as well as the effective protection of personal data they process. "I am glad that through such conferences and training, the Agency contributes to the exchange of knowledge and information that are crucial in today's time when technology is rapidly advancing and bringing new opportunities, but also challenges. Therefore, we encourage entrepreneurs, the academic community, and institutes to work together on raising awareness and education to increase the efficiency of adaptation."

The satisfaction that the Faculty of Organization and Informatics is a partner in the ARC II project was expressed by Dean Prof. Dr. Marina Klačmer Čalopa. "We proudly participate in the development of the Olivia tool, providing our technical expertise to create a resource that will be of invaluable value to the entrepreneurial community."

In the first part of this year's European Data Protection Day celebration, participants, with the presence of mentors, tested the free web tool "Olivia," which is available at the link https://olivia-gdpr-arc.eu/hr. Namely, Olivia is a virtual teacher and assistant, which contains a small online academy offering a series of learning modules to help entrepreneurs improve their knowledge in the field of personal data protection, and it also serves as a practical tool to assist in the creation of internal documents that can demonstrate their compliance and reliability.

About sixty small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for whom this tool is primarily intended, expressed satisfaction after testing various modules that everything they need for compliance with personal data protection regulations is covered in one place.

In the second part of the event, a panel discussion titled "Artificial Intelligence: What Awaits Us in 2024?" was held, where panelists Anamarija Mladinić (AZOP), Andrej Grgurić (Ericsson Nikola Tesla), William Bello (Bello Consulting), Marija Bošković Batarelo (Parser compliance), and Marijan Bračić (LegIT Software) discussed the new possibilities brought by artificial intelligence. Participants had the opportunity to hear how technological innovations based on artificial intelligence can enhance their business, reduce costs, and generally increase business efficiency.

However, although such innovations bring numerous advantages, the panelists pointed out many risks that could threaten the right to personal data protection, privacy, and other human rights. They also touched upon the Act on Artificial Intelligence, which aims to regulate artificial intelligence in the European Union, ensuring that such systems are safe and transparent. Given that this is a comprehensive legal regulation, the panel participants agreed that the mentioned Act will need to be well-prepared and implemented. For organizations, the Act on Artificial Intelligence will bring a whole range of new obligations and many changes, as well as new responsibilities and competencies for the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data.

This is, in fact, the 18th consecutive time that the Agency has appropriately marked the European Data Protection Day. In order to raise public awareness of the fundamental human right – the right to personal data protection and privacy, the Council of Europe, with the support of the European Commission, proclaimed January 28 as European Data Protection Day in 2006, which is also known worldwide as Privacy Day.