 

 

 
press release
 
Ansbach, October 14, 2022

 
 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision
- press office -
 
Email: presse@lda.bayern.de
 
 
 

BayLDA presents activity report for 2021

- Cyber attacks are increasing, complex issues of international data traffic

stay up to date -

The President of the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA), Michael Will,

presented its agency's activity report for 2021 on Friday, October 14, 2022

before. “We are intensely concerned with the increase in complex cyber incidents. In addition to current

Questions of international data traffic were and are one of the focal points of the work

of the BayLDA,” says Will.

The persistently high number of cases of the authority and the continuing need for advice from

Companies and associations continue to present the BayLDA with its 33 employees

Challenges. "If complaints from those affected are not in the required and legal manner

can be processed at the required speed and important consultations have therefore been postponed

legal certainty in data protection suffers for everyone,” says Will. A significant increase

employees is therefore necessary so that the BayLDA can take more preventive action and

can support those responsible in preparing for the increased cyber risks, for example

or to solve complicated questions of international data traffic.

Due to the high number of reports on cyber attacks, the BayLDA has a good picture of the

Security situation of Bavarian - especially small and medium-sized - companies. The state office leads

preventive control measures for effective protection against cyber attacks. Despite

Due to the high workload, the State Office established a staff unit for test procedures in 2021

sector- or topic-specific random data protection audits at Bavarian companies

should bring the way.

The BayLDA presented its activity report to the press and specialist public in an online conference

before. The activity report itself is also published digitally on the homepage of the

Authority.

The

activity report

for

the

Year

2021

is

under

following

link

reachable:

https://www.lda.bayern.de/de/taetigkeitsreports.html.

A

video recording

the

virtual

Press Conference will also be available there in the coming days.

signed Michael Will

president

10/14/2022

