REPUBLIC 

OF CYPRUS 

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER 

FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION 

 

 

 

 
 
Our ref. 11.17.001.007.125 
 
2 June 2020 
 
Mr XXXXXXXXX 
Director 
GAIJIN NETWORK LTD 
Kyriakou Matsi 10 
LILIANA BUILDING, Flat 204 
1082 Nicosia, Cyprus 
 
Subject: Investigation of complaint under the GDPR - erasure request of the user K.K. 
 
Dear Mr. XXXXXX, 
 
I am writing further to the exchange of communications between GAIJIN NETWORK LTD and my 
Office, with regard to the data protection complaint that has been raised with the Commissioner for 
Personal  Data  Protection  (the  Commissioner)  about  how  Gaijin  has  handled  an  erasure  request 
submitted  by  the  applicant  XXXXXX  (the  complainant).  I  hereby  inform  you  of  my  decision, 
following the investigation of this complaint. 
 
Your organisation’s response 
 
In  your  initial  response  of  5  July  2019,  you  provided  the  Commissioner  with  an  account  of  how 
Gaijin has dealt with this request. You explained that in order to proceed with the erasure request 
of  the  complainant,  Gaijin  needed  to  identify  the  applicant  and  additional  information  was 
necessary  under  these  particular  circumstances.  In  accordance  with  Gaijin  internal  “Policy  for 
processing personal data rectification and erasure requests” in order to ensure that each erasure 
request is sent by Gaijin user i.e. the person who registered the game account and has the right to 
use  the  account,  and  not  by  someone  else  who  received  unauthorised  access  thereto,  Gaijin 
Support  Service  requests  the  additional  information  from  the  applicant,  such  as  current  and 
previous  nicknames,  registration  date  of  the  account,  purchases  and  DxDiag  information. 
Subsequently,  an  algorithm  is  used  to  identify  the  user,  depending  on  the  extensiveness  of 
answers that will be provided by the applicant.  
 
You then explained the grounds upon which Gaijin based its decision to refuse the erasure request 
of  XXXXXXX.  According  to  your  explanations  the  owner  of  the  account  enabled  2-step 
authentication via email. The applicant stated that he had lost access to the email. In this case, you 
considered that the applicant should have contacted their email service provider in order to regain 
access to the email. Gaijin suggested that the  applicant add secondary email to the account and 
asked  the  applicant  to  go  through  the  identification  procedure  in  accordance  with  the  internal 
policies to make sure that the request was sent not by the hacker but by the original owner of the 
account.  The  applicant  failed  to  provide  any  of  the  information  which  would  enable  the 
authentication. 
 
You affirmed that the current refusal should not be deemed final and that you are willing to erase 
personal data related to the account as soon as the identification of the data subject is successful. 
 

1 Iasonos str., P.O. Box 23378, 1682  NICOSIA, CYPRUS Tel.: +357 22818456, Fax:+357 22304565 

E-mail: commissioner@dataprotection.gov.cy ,Website: http://www.dataprotection.gov.cy 

 

 

 

 
 
 
You  further  affirmed  that  you  informed  the  applicant  about the  refusal,  its  temporary  nature,  until 
the identification procedure is successful and the reasons for your decision.  
 
In  your  reply  of  20.09.2019  you  provided  to  my  Office  additional  documentation/evidence  which 
substantiated your assertions. 
 
Commissioner’s view 
 
I have considered the information available to me in relation to this complaint and have the opinion 
that the erasure request could not be complied with, in this specific case, as far as the complainant 
did not provide sufficient information which would enable its identification, in accordance with the 
requirements of Gaijin.  
 
I consider that the identification requirements of Gaijin are justified and in line with article 12.6 of 
the GDPR. I value that the information requested by the Support Service i.e. current and previous 
nicknames, registration date of the account, purchases made via the account, game progress etc. 
is  already  in  possession  and  processed  by  the  controller.  The  requirement  of  Gaijin  to  provide 
again  this  information  is  therefore  considered  to  be  relevant  and  not  excessive  in  relation  to  the 
purpose of the processing and it only aims at identifying the data subject.  
 
Nonetheless,  although  I  recognise  that  erasure  request  could  not  be  complied  with,  within  the 
particular  context,  you  are  reminded  that  according  to  Article  12.2  of  the  GDPR  the  controller  is 
under the obligation to facilitate the exercise of data subject rights. Modalities should be provided 
for facilitating the exercise of the data subject's rights, including mechanisms to request and obtain, 
free of charge, in particular, access to and rectification or erasure of personal data (recital 59 of the 
GDPR). 
 
I consider that the modalities provided in the Policies of Gaijin do not fully comply with the GDPR 
requirements, and additional modalities should be subsequently implemented, enabling later a data 
subject with a hacked account to justify his or her identity in accordance with provisions of Article 
12.6 GDPR. For instance, a secret question could be foreseen at registration.  
 
Action required 
 
In light of the above, and in accordance with the powers conferred to me by Article 58.2.d of the 
GDPR, you are instructed to bring the processing operations into compliance with the provisions of 
Article 12.2 of the GDPR, at the latest within two months from the date of this letter, and namely 
to implement another authentication process which could both secure and facilitate the exercise of 
the data subject’s rights. 
 
 
Commissioner  
for Personal Data Protection   
 
 

 

 

