Deliberation 2018-320 of September 20, 2018 National Commission for Computing and Liberties Nature of the deliberation: Members and agents Legal status: In force Date of publication on Légifrance: Wednesday September 26, 2018 NOR: CNIL1825875 Deliberation No. 2018-320 of September 20, 2018 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification missions The office of the National Commission for Data Processing and Liberties, Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data; Having regard to Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or execution of criminal penalties, and to the free movement of such data; Having regard to the internal security code, in particular its article L.253-3; Having regard to law n° 78-17 of 6 January 1978 as amended relating to the data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its articles 11 (2°, f), 19, 20 and 44; Considering the decree n° 2005-1309 of October 20, 2005 modified taken for the application of the law of January 6 1978, in particular its articles 57 to 60; Having regard to deliberation n° 2004-071 of September 9, 2004 delegating powers to the office of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties; Having regard to deliberation n° 2013-175 of 4 July 2013 adopting the internal regulations of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties; After having heard Ms. Marie-France MAZARS, Deputy Vice-President, in her report, and Ms. Nacima BELKACEM, Government Commissioner, in her observations; Resolves: Article 1: Agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties hereinafter designated are authorized, by reason of their functions, to carry out the inspections and verifications mentioned in article 44 of the law of January 6, 1978 as amended and in article L. 253-3 of the internal security code: Ms. Maryline ABIVEN, Head of the Right of Indirect Access Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Fabienne AMIARD, Lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Audrey BACQUIE, assistant in the sanctions department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Leslie BASSE, legal expert in the control department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Brice BASTIÉ, lawyer in the economic affairs department of the compliance department; Mr. Franck BAUDOT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Barbara BAVOIL, assistant in the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Ms. Nacéra BEKHAT, legal expert in the health department to the compliance department; Ms Margalith BENECH-KOPELIANSKIS, legal expert in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Anna BENISTI, legal expert in the complaints department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Thomas BIZET, legal expert in the control department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Claire BIZOT-ESPIARD, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department; Ms. Aziza BOUALLAGA BENHASSI, in charge of developing tools in the compliance tools department in the compliance department; Ms. Soumia BOUASSAM, lawyer in the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Erik BOUCHER-DE-CREVECOEUR, Expert Engineer in the Technological Expertise Department in the Technology and Innovation Department; Ms. Valérie BOURRIQUEN, Legal Officer in the Data Protection Officers Department in the Compliance Department; Ms. Stéphanie BOISSEAU, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Ms. Sophie BORY, Legal Officer in the European and International Affairs Department; Mrs. Véronique BREMOND, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and sanctions; Mrs Solenn BRUNET, expert engineer in the technological expertise service at the technology and innovation department; Mr. Thierry CARDONA, engineer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Régis CHATELLIER, in charge of prospective studies in the innovation division, studies and prospective in the technology and innovation department; Mrs. Stephany CHEMMACHERY, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Thomas CHRISTINE, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Valentyne CROSNIER, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Thomas DAUTIEU, deputy director of compliance; Mr. Guillaume DELAFOSSE, lawyer in the complaints department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Geoffrey DELCROIX, in charge of prospective studies at the innovation, studies and prospective division at the technology and innovation department; Mr. Eric DELISLE, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department; Mr. Xavier DELPORTE, deputy head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department; Mr. Jérôme DE MERCEY, lawyer in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Mrs Alexandra DORE, lawyer in the health department of the compliance department; Mr. Julien DROCHON, lead information systems auditor in the control department of the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Corentin DUPOUEY, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Hugo DUSSERT, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Wafae EL BOUJEMAOUI, head of the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Ms. Marie FERTE, lawyer in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department; Ms Anne FONTANILLE, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department; Ms Florence FOURETS, director in charge of sovereign projects with of the Secretary General; Mr. Emile GABRIE, adviser to the President and the Secretary General; Ms. Malika, Mahalia GALIÉ-BLANZÉ, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department; Mr. Gaston GAUTRENEAU, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Rodolphe GENISSEL, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mrs. Sophie GENVRESSE, lawyer in the Economic Affairs Department in the Compliance Department; Mathieu GINESTET, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Jérôme GORIN, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Matthieu GRALL, head of the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Mr. Michel GUEDRÉ, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Hélène GUIMIOT-BREAUD, head of the health department in the compliance department; Ms. Fatima HAMDI, head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department; Mrs. Estelle HARY, designer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Mr. Paul HEBERT, Deputy Director of Compliance; Mr. Armand HESLOT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department; Ms. Amandine JAMBERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department; Mr. Hugo JAUFFRET, lawyer in the control department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Véronique JENNEQUIN, legal assistant in the control department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Maya JOUBIN, lawyer in the complaints to the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Pauline KIENLEN, Legal Officer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Karin KIEFER, Deputy Director of Rights Protection and sanctions; Ms. Sabrina LALAOUI, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department; Ms. Névine Lahlou, lawyer in the complaints department in the department of protection of rights and sanctions; Ms. Alice de LA MURE, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department; Mr. Bernard LAUNOIS, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Gwendal LE GRAND, Director of Technology and Innovation; Mr. Pierre LEPHAY, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Jean LESSI, Secretary General; Ms Maud LETAY, Legal Officer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Noémie LICHON, Deputy Head of the Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions; Ms Marie-Françoise MAINDRON, Legal Officer in the Complaints Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Astrid MARIAUX, Head of Controls Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Tony MARTIN, information systems auditor in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms. Joanna MASSON, lawyer in the economic affairs department of the compliance department; Mr. Mathias MOULIN, director of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs. Sophie NERBONNE, director of compliance; Mr. Bao-Khanh NGUYEN TRUNG, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Ingrid NKOUENJIN, head of the compliance tools department in the compliance department; Ms. Rabia OUADDAH , lawyer in the complaints department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Daniéla PARROT, head of the complaints department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Adélaïde PATERNOGA, lawyer in the complaints department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;Mr. Frédéric PATTE-BRASSEUR, auditor of information systems in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Astrid PEYRARD, head of the controls department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Délia RAHAL-LOFSKOG, legal expert in the European and international affairs department; Ms. Florence RAYNAL, head of the European and international affairs department; Ms. Albane RICHET, legal expert in the control department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Ismini RIGOPOULOU , jurist in the European and international affairs department; Mr. Valentin ROGER, information systems auditor in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms. Guilda ROSTAMA, lawyer in the economic affairs department of the compliance department; Mr. David RUIZ, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Ms. Isabelle SANSOT, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Ms. Katty SAINT-GELAIS, in charge of developing tools - responsible for BCRs in the compliance tools to the compliance department; Ms Clémence SCOTTEZ, head of the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Ms Emilie SERUGA-CAU, head of the sovereign affairs and local authorities department in the compliance; Mrs Adeline VALERY, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Mr. Félicien VALLET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Benjamin VIALLE, Head of Information Systems Security at the General Secretariat; Ms Anne VIDAL, Legal Officer in the Health Department at the Compliance Department; Ms Albine VINCENT, Head of the Data Protection Officers Department at the Compliance; Mr. Christophe VIVENT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mrs Clémentine VOISARD, project manager for the public relations department; Mrs Sophie VULLIET-TAVERNIER, director of relations with and research; Article 2: Deliberation no. 2018-143 of April 19, 2018 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification missions is repealed. Article 3: The authorizations mentioned in Article 1 are issued for a period of five years. Article 4: This decision will take effect from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the French Republic. The President, Isabelle FALQUE-PIERROTIN