Legal Office  
N/REF: 0047/2021  

The project proposes the processing of facial recognition data at the time of client registration in the office or through an online channel with the aim of verifying their identity and thus carrying out the necessary checks provided for in Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT), as well as fraud control.  

The presented project is limited to:  
- Indicating that the legal basis of consent for the processing of data, given that it involves biometric data, that is, special categories of data, cannot be an adequate legal basis as it depends on clients authorizing such processing. And because it may be considered that mandatory consent would not be lawful as it conditions the provision of services on the granting of consent, with the consequence that such consent would not be free.  
- The alternative to consent proposed is to consider compliance with a public interest mission, such as the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, as the legal basis for processing data without consent. The application of this legal basis is limited exclusively to the indicated purposes and not to commercial purposes or any other purposes different from fraud control or AML/CFT.  

I  
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR) defines in its Article 4.14 biometric data as “personal data obtained through a specific technical processing, related to the physical, physiological or behavioral characteristics of a natural person which allow or confirm the unique identification of that person, such as facial images or fingerprint data.”  

Article 9 of this regulation governs the processing of special categories of data, among which biometric data are included, establishing a general prohibition on their processing in the following terms:  
“Processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health or data concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual orientation is prohibited.”  

In relation to the processing of facial recognition data, in our Report 36/2020, analyzing Article 9.1 in relation to Recital 51 of the GDPR, as well as the Protocol amending the Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data, adopted by the Committee of Ministers at its 128th session in Elsinore on May 18, 2018 (Convention 108+), we pointed out that  
“To clarify the interpretative doubts that arise regarding the consideration of biometric data as special categories of data, one can refer to the distinction between biometric identification and biometric verification/authentication established by the Article 29 Working Party in its Opinion 3/2012 on the evolution of biometric technologies:  
Biometric identification: the identification of an individual by a biometric system is normally the process of comparing their biometric data (acquired at the time of identification) with a set of biometric templates stored in a database (i.e., a one-to-many matching process).  
Biometric verification/authentication: the verification of an individual by a biometric system is normally the process of comparison between their biometric data (acquired at the time of verification) with a single biometric template stored on a device (i.e., a one-to-one matching process).  

This same differentiation is included in the White Paper on Artificial Intelligence by the European Commission:  
“With regard to facial recognition, ‘identification’ is understood as the comparison of a person's facial image template with many other templates stored in a database to find out if their image is stored in it. ‘Authentication’ (or ‘verification’), on the other hand, usually refers to the search for matches between two specific templates. It allows the comparison of two biometric templates that, in principle, are assumed to belong to the same person; thus, the two templates are compared to determine if the person in the two images is the same.”
Legal Office
the same. This procedure is used, for example, in the automated control gates at border checks employed in airport border controls.”

Considering the aforementioned distinction, it can be interpreted that, in accordance with Article 4 of the GDPR, the concept of biometric data would include both cases, namely identification and verification/authentication. However, in general terms, biometric data will only be considered a special category of data in cases where they are subjected to technical processing aimed at biometric identification (one-to-many) and not in the case of biometric verification/authentication (one-to-one).

Nevertheless, this Agency considers that this is a complex issue, subject to interpretation, regarding which no general conclusions can be drawn, and attention must be paid to the specific case according to the data processed, the techniques used for their processing, and the consequent interference with the right to data protection. In the absence of a pronouncement on this matter by the European Data Protection Committee or the judicial bodies, in case of doubt, the most favorable interpretation for the protection of the rights of the affected individuals should be adopted.

Therefore, in that report, this Agency already highlighted the difficulty of delineating the concepts of identification and authentication, which requires consideration of the specific case and the particular techniques employed in relation to the purpose pursued by the processing, as well as the need to grant maximum protection to the rights of the affected individuals against the use of techniques that may be more invasive to their privacy and generate greater risks to their rights and freedoms.

In the presented project, biometric data processing is carried out with the aim of complying with the identification duty established in the regulations on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, thus avoiding possible identity theft. Consequently, it must be concluded that the facial recognition process employed involves the processing of biometric data with the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, making it a processing of special categories of data subject to the general prohibition rule of such data (Article 9.1. GDPR).

This same conclusion was reached by the Agency in the aforementioned report 36/2020, analyzing a case analogous to the present one, in which the aim was the identification of students taking exams online through facial recognition, in order to verify their identity and prevent cases of impersonation.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
3
Legal Office
Notwithstanding, Article 9.2 of the GDPR regulates exceptions to this general prohibition by establishing that 
“paragraph 1 shall not apply when one of the following circumstances occurs:
a) the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of those personal data for one or more of the specified purposes, except where Union or Member State law provides that the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 may not be lifted by the data subject.
(…)
g) the processing is necessary for reasons of essential public interest, based on Union or Member State law, which must be proportional to the objective pursued, respect in essence the right to data protection, and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject;”
In relation to paragraph g), it is noteworthy that when processing is necessary for reasons of public interest, it must be essential based on the law of the Member States, proportional to the objective pursued, respect in essence the right to data protection, and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject. Therefore, it is appropriate to analyze whether, in the present case, the conditions established in Article 9.2.g) are met to lift the prohibition on the processing of biometric data.
II
This Agency has had the opportunity to express its views, on various occasions, regarding the requirements established by Article 9.2.g) of the GDPR to support the processing of personal data based on facial recognition, given the proliferation of proposals received in relation to the same from different areas, which highlights the growing interest in using these systems and the constant concern of this supervisory authority, as these are highly intrusive identification systems for the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. This concern is shared by other supervisory authorities for years, as evidenced by the Working Document on Biometrics, adopted on August 1, 2003, by the Article 29 Working Party, or the subsequent Opinion 3/2012 on the evolution of biometric technologies, adopted on April 27, 2012, which has led the EU legislator to include these data among the special categories of data in the GDPR. Thus, since their processing is generally prohibited, any exception to this prohibition must be subject to restrictive interpretation. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
4

                                                              Legal Office
In this regard, it is worth highlighting, in addition to the aforementioned report 36/2020, concerning the use of facial recognition techniques in online assessment tests, report 31/2019 on the incorporation of facial recognition systems in video surveillance services under Article 42 of the Private Security Law, or Report 97/2020 regarding the Draft Order of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation on non-presential identification methods for the issuance of qualified electronic certificates. In all these cases, it was concluded that there was no legal norm in the Spanish legal system that met the requirements of Article 9.2.g) of the GDPR, so the processing could only be based on the consent of the affected parties, provided that it was guaranteed to be free.
Analyzing the requirements of Article 9.2.g) in our Report 36/2020, we pointed out the following:
V
The next question raised in the consultation is whether the processing of biometric data by facial recognition systems in online assessment processes could be supported by the existence of an essential public interest in accordance with Article 9.2.g) of the GDPR:
g) the processing is necessary for reasons of essential public interest, based on Union or Member State law, which must be proportional to the objective pursued, respect in essence the right to data protection, and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject.
As we pointed out earlier, the processing of personal data necessary for the provision of the public service of higher education is generally legitimized by the existence of a public interest under the provisions of Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR. However, regarding special categories of data, the assumption contemplated in letter g) of Article 9.2. does not refer only to the existence of a public interest, as is the case in many other provisions of the GDPR, but it is the only provision of the GDPR that requires that it be “essential,” an adjective that qualifies said public interest, given the importance and need for greater protection of the processed data.
This provision finds its precedent in Article 8.4 of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, of October 24, 1995, on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
5
Legal Office
treatment of personal data and the free movement of such data:
“4.  Provided that they have adequate safeguards, member States may, for important public interest reasons, establish other exceptions, in addition to those provided for in paragraph 2, either through their national legislation or by decision of the supervisory authority.” However, from its reading, there is a greater rigor in the new regulation by the GDPR, as the adjective “important” is replaced by “essential” and it is not allowed for the exception to be established by the supervisory authorities.
In relation to what should be understood as essential public interest, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights must also be taken into account, which under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights has considered that the processing of personal data constitutes a lawful interference with the right to respect for private life and can only be carried out if it is done in accordance with the law, serves a legitimate aim, respects the essence of fundamental rights and freedoms, and is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society to achieve a legitimate aim (D.L. v. Bulgaria, no. 7472/14, May 19, 2016, Dragojević v. Croatia, no. 68955/11, January 15, 2015, Peck v. United Kingdom, no. 44647/98, January 28, 2003, Leander v. Sweden, no. 9248/81, March 26, 1987, among others). As noted in the last cited judgment, “the concept of necessity implies that the interference responds to an urgent social need and, in particular, that it is proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued.”
Furthermore, the doctrine of the Constitutional Court regarding restrictions on the fundamental right to data protection must be taken into account, which it summarizes in its judgment 292/2000, of November 30, in which, after defining the fundamental right to the protection of personal data as an autonomous and independent right that consists of a power of disposition and control over personal data that empowers the individual to decide which of those data to provide to a third party, whether the State or a private individual, or which this third party may collect, and which also allows the individual to know who holds that personal data and for what purpose, being able to oppose such possession or use, analyzes the limits of the same, stating the following:
More specifically, in the aforementioned judgments regarding data protection, this Court has declared that the right to data protection is not unlimited, and although the Constitution does not expressly impose specific limits on it, nor refers to the Public Authorities for its determination as it has done with other fundamental rights, there is no doubt that they must be found in the remaining fundamental rights and constitutionally protected legal goods, as required by the
Legal Office
Principle of Unity of the Constitution (SSTC 11/1981, of April 8, F. 7; 196/1987, of December 11 [RTC 1987, 196], F. 6; and regarding art. 18, STC 110/1984, F. 5). These limits may either be direct restrictions on the fundamental right itself, as previously mentioned, or they may be restrictions on the manner, time, or place of exercising the fundamental right. In the first case, regulating these limits is a form of development of the fundamental right. In the second, the limits set pertain to the specific manner in which the bundle of powers that constitutes the content of the fundamental right in question can be exercised, constituting a way to regulate its exercise, which ordinary legislators can do in accordance with the provisions of art. 53.1 CE. The first observation that must be made, which is no less crucial for being evident, is that the Constitution has intended that the Law, and only the Law, may set the limits to a fundamental right. Fundamental rights can yield, of course, to goods, and even constitutionally relevant interests, as long as the reduction they experience is necessary to achieve the legitimate purpose provided, proportionate to attain it, and, in any case, respectful of the essential content of the restricted fundamental right (SSTC 57/1994, of February 28 [RTC 1994, 57], F. 6; 18/1999, of February 22 [RTC 1999, 18], F. 2).

Indeed, if the Law is the only entity authorized by the Constitution to set limits on fundamental rights and, in the present case, on the fundamental right to data protection, and these limits cannot be different from those constitutionally provided, which in this case are none other than those derived from the coexistence of this fundamental right with other rights and legally protected goods of constitutional rank, the legal empowerment that allows a Public Authority to collect, store, process, use, and, where appropriate, transfer personal data is only justified if it responds to the protection of other fundamental rights or constitutionally protected goods. Therefore, if those operations with the personal data of a person are not carried out with strict observance of the rules that regulate them, the right to data protection is violated, as constitutionally illegitimate limits are imposed on its content or on the exercise of the bundle of powers that compose it. The same will occur if that limiting Law regulates the limits in such a way that makes the affected fundamental right impracticable or the guarantee that the Constitution grants ineffective. And this will be the case when the Law, which must regulate the limits to fundamental rights with scrupulous respect for their essential content, merely empowers another Public Authority to set the restrictions that may be imposed on the rights.
Legal Office
fundamentals, whose singular determination and application will be at the mercy of the decisions made by that Public Power, which may decide, in what concerns us now, on the obtaining, storage, processing, use, and transfer of personal data in the cases it deems appropriate and even invoking interests or goods that are not protected with constitutional rank […]”. (Legal Basis 11)

“On one hand, because although this Court has declared that the Constitution does not prevent the State from protecting rights or legal goods at the cost of sacrificing others that are equally recognized and, therefore, that the legislator may impose limitations on the content of fundamental rights or their exercise, we have also specified that, in such cases, those limitations must be justified in the protection of other constitutional rights or goods (SSTC 104/2000, of April 13 [RTC 2000, 104], F. 8 and those cited therein) and, moreover, must be proportional to the end pursued by them (SSTC 11/1981, F. 5, and 196/1987, F. 6). For otherwise, they would incur in the arbitrariness prohibited by art. 9.3 CE. 

On the other hand, even having a constitutional basis and the limitations of the fundamental right established by a Law being proportional (STC 178/1985 [RTC 1985, 178]), they may violate the Constitution if they lack certainty and predictability in the very limits they impose and their mode of application. This conclusion is corroborated by the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights that has been cited in F. 8 and which must be considered reproduced here. 

It should also be noted that it would not only harm the principle of legal certainty (art. 9.3 CE), conceived as certainty about the applicable legal order and a reasonably founded expectation of the person regarding what the action of the power applying the Law should be (STC 104/2000, F. 7, among others), but at the same time, such Law would be infringing the essential content of the fundamental right thus restricted, given that the way in which its limits have been set makes it unrecognizable and practically impossible to exercise (SSTC 11/1981, F. 15; 142/1993, of April 22 [RTC 1993, 142], F. 4, and 341/1993, of November 18 [RTC 1993, 341], F. 7). Thus, the lack of precision of the Law in the material assumptions of the limitation of a fundamental right is likely to generate an indeterminacy regarding the cases to which such restriction applies. And when this result occurs, beyond any reasonable interpretation, the Law no longer fulfills its function of guaranteeing the very fundamental right it restricts, as it leaves
Legal Office
that in its place operates simply the will of the one who must apply it, thus undermining both the effectiveness of the fundamental right and legal certainty […]”. (FJ 15).
“More specifically, in relation to the fundamental right to privacy, we have highlighted not only the necessity for any possible limitations to be based on a legal provision that has constitutional justification and that they are proportionate (SSTC 110/1984, F. 3, and 254/1993, F. 7) but also that the Law restricting this right must precisely express each and every one of the material prerequisites of the limiting measure. Otherwise, it is difficult to understand that the judicial resolution or the administrative act applying it is based on the Law, since what it has done, by neglecting its functions, is empower other Public Powers to set the limits to the fundamental right (SSTC 37/1989, of February 15 [RTC 1989, 37], and 49/1999, of April 5 [RTC 1999, 49]).
Similarly, regarding the right to the protection of personal data, it can be considered that the constitutional legitimacy of the restriction of this right cannot be based solely on the activity of the Public Administration. Nor is it sufficient for the Law to empower it to specify its limits in each case, merely indicating that it must make such specification when a constitutionally protected right or good is present. It is the legislator who must determine when that good or right justifying the restriction of the right to the protection of personal data is present and under what circumstances it can be limited, and, furthermore, it is he who must do so through precise rules that make the imposition of such limitation and its consequences foreseeable for the interested party. Otherwise, the legislator would have transferred to the Administration the performance of a function that only he is competent to exercise in matters of fundamental rights by virtue of the legal reserve of art. 53.1 CE, that is, to clearly establish the limit and its regulation. […] (FJ 16)”.
Likewise, our Constitutional Court has already had the opportunity to specifically pronounce on article 9.2.g) of the GDPR, as a consequence of the challenge to article 58 bis of Organic Law 5/1985, of June 19, on the General Electoral Regime, introduced by the third final provision of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the guarantee of digital rights, relating to the legitimacy of the collection of personal data regarding the political opinions of individuals carried out by political parties in the context of their electoral activities, a provision that was declared unconstitutional by Judgment No. 76/2019 of May 22.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
9
Legal Office
The judgment analyzes, in the first instance, the legal regime to which the processing of special categories of data is subject under the GDPR:

According to paragraph 1 of Article 9 GDPR, the processing of personal data revealing political opinions is prohibited, just as the processing of personal data revealing ethnic or racial origin, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union affiliation, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, health data, or data related to the sexual life or sexual orientation of a natural person is also prohibited. However, paragraph 2 of the same provision authorizes the processing of all those data when any of the ten circumstances provided therein [letters a) to j)] occur.

Some of those circumstances have a limited scope of application (labor, social, associative, health, judicial, etc.) or respond to a specific purpose, thus, in themselves, they delimit the specific treatments they authorize as exceptions to the general rule. Furthermore, the enabling effectiveness of several of the cases provided therein is conditioned upon Union Law or that of the Member States expressly providing for and regulating them within their areas of competence: this is the case for the circumstances listed in letters a), b), g), h), i), and j).

The processing of special categories of personal data is one of the areas in which the General Data Protection Regulation has expressly recognized that Member States have "leeway" when it comes to "specifying their rules," as stated in its recital 10. This legislative configuration margin extends both to the determination of the enabling causes for the processing of specially protected personal data—namely, to the identification of essential public interest purposes and the assessment of the proportionality of the processing to the pursued purpose, while essentially respecting the right to data protection—as well as to the establishment of "appropriate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject" [Article 9.2 g) GDPR]. The Regulation therefore contains a specific obligation for Member States to establish such guarantees, in the event that they enable the processing of specially protected personal data.

Regarding the first of the requirements demanded by Article 9.2.g), the invocation of an essential public interest and the necessary specification thereof, the High Court recalls what was stated in its c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
10
Legal Office
Judgment 292/2000 in which it was rejected that the identification of the legitimate purposes of the restriction could be carried out through generic concepts or vague formulas, considering that the restriction of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data cannot be based, by itself, on the generic invocation of an indeterminate "public interest":
In the aforementioned STC 292/2000 (RTC 2000, 292), in which a legislative interference in the right to the protection of personal data was also judged, we reject that the identification of the legitimate purposes of the restriction could be carried out through generic concepts or vague formulas:
"16. [...] Likewise, regarding the right to the protection of personal data, it must be considered that the constitutional legitimacy of the restriction of this right cannot be based, by itself, on the activity of the Public Administration. It is not sufficient for the Law to empower it to specify its limits in each case, limiting itself to indicating that it must make such specification when a constitutionally protected right or good is at stake. It is the legislator who must determine when that good or right justifying the restriction of the right to the protection of personal data is present and under what circumstances it may be limited, and, furthermore, it is he who must do so through precise rules that make the imposition of such limitation and its consequences foreseeable for the interested party. Otherwise, the legislator would have transferred to the Administration the performance of a function that solely belongs to him in matters of fundamental rights by virtue of the legal reserve of art. 53.1 CE, that is, to clearly establish the limit and its regulation.
17. In the present case, the use by the LOPD (RCL 2018, 1629) in its art. 24.1 of the expression "control and verification functions" opens up such a wide space of uncertainty that it provokes a double and perverse consequence. On one hand, by empowering the Administration to restrict fundamental rights invoking such an expression, the LOPD is renouncing to set the limits itself, empowering the Administration to do so. And in such a way that, as the Ombudsman points out, it allows practically all administrative activity to be redirected under the same premise, since any administrative activity that involves establishing a legal relationship with an administered party, which will practically be the case in all situations where the Administration needs personal data from someone, will ordinarily entail the power of the Administration to verify and control that the administered party has acted in accordance with the legal administrative regime of the legal relationship established with the Administration. This, in light of the reason for the restriction of the right to be informed in art. 5 LOPD, leaves in the most...
Legal Office
absolute uncertainty for the citizen regarding in which cases
this circumstance will occur (if not in all) and plunges into
ineffectiveness any mechanism of judicial protection that must
assess such a situation of restriction of fundamental rights
without any other complementary criterion that aids in
controlling the administrative action in this matter.
The same criticisms apply to the use in art. 24.2
LOPD of the expression "public interest" as a basis for
imposing limits on the fundamental rights of art. 18.1 and
4 CE, as it contains an even greater degree of uncertainty. It is enough
to note that all administrative activity ultimately
pursues the safeguarding of general interests, whose
achievement constitutes the purpose that the Administration must serve
objectively in accordance with art. 103.1 CE."
This argument is fully transferable to the present
assessment. Likewise, we must conclude that the
constitutional legitimacy of the restriction
of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data cannot be
based, by itself, on the generic invocation of an
indeterminate "public interest." Otherwise, the legislator
would have transferred to political parties - to whom the contested
provision enables to collect personal data related to the
political opinions of individuals in the context of their
electoral activities - the performance of a function that solely
belongs to him in matters of fundamental rights by virtue of the
legal reservation of art. 53.1 CE, that is, to clearly establish
its limits and its regulation.
Nor can the purpose cited by the State Attorney, which
refers to the functioning of the democratic system, be accepted,
as it is equally imprecise, since it also contains
a high degree of uncertainty and may imply a
circular reasoning. On one hand, political parties are
in themselves "necessary channels for the functioning of the
democratic system" (see, among others, STC 48/2003, of March 12 (RTC
2003, 48), FJ 5); and, on the other hand, the entire functioning of
the democratic system ultimately pursues the safeguarding
of constitutional purposes, values, and goods, but this does not
reach to identify the reason why the affected fundamental
right should be restricted.
Finally, it should be clarified that it is not necessary to
suspect, with more or less foundation, that the restriction
pursues an unconstitutional purpose, or that the data that is
collected and processed will be harmful to the private sphere and the
exercise of individuals' rights. It is sufficient to
establish that, since the purpose of the data processing cannot be
identified with sufficient precision, the assessment cannot be made.
Legal Office
the constitutionally legitimate nature of that purpose, nor, in its case, the proportionality of the measure provided in accordance with the principles of suitability, necessity, and proportionality in the strict sense. 

On the other hand, regarding the guarantees that the legislator must adopt, the aforementioned ruling no. 76/2019 of May 22, after recalling that “In view of the potential intrusive effects on the fundamental right affected that result from the processing of personal data, the jurisprudence of this Court requires the legislator to not only comply with the aforementioned requirements but also to establish adequate guarantees of a technical, organizational, and procedural nature, which prevent risks of varying probability and severity and mitigate their effects, for only in this way can respect for the essential content of the fundamental right itself be ensured,” analyzes what the norm must contain regarding the aforementioned guarantees: 

“Therefore, the resolution of this challenge requires us to clarify a doubt raised regarding the scope of our doctrine on adequate guarantees, which consists of determining whether the adequate guarantees against the use of information technology must be contained in the very law that authorizes and regulates that use or can also be found in other normative sources. 

The question can only have a constitutional answer. The provision of adequate guarantees cannot be deferred to a later moment after the legal regulation of the processing of personal data in question. The adequate guarantees must be incorporated into the very legal regulation of the processing, either directly or by express and perfectly delineated reference to external sources that possess the appropriate normative rank. Only that understanding is compatible with the dual requirement that emanates from art. 53.1 CE (RCL 1978, 2836) for the legislator of fundamental rights: the legal reserve for the regulation of the exercise of the fundamental rights recognized in Chapter Two of Title One of the Constitution and the respect for the essential content of such fundamental rights. 

According to reiterated constitutional doctrine, the legal reserve is not limited to requiring that a law enable the restrictive measure of fundamental rights, but it is also necessary, according to both requirements referred to as -at times- normative predetermination and -at others- quality of the law, as well as respect for the essential content of the right, that in that regulation the legislator, who is primarily obliged to weigh the conflicting rights or interests, predetermine the assumptions, conditions, and guarantees under which the adoption of... 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
13
Legal Office
restrictive measures on fundamental rights. This mandate of
predetermination regarding essential elements, also linked
ultimately to the proportionality assessment of the
limitation of the fundamental right, cannot be deferred to
a subsequent legal or regulatory development, nor can it
be left in the hands of the individuals themselves” (FJ 8).
Consequently, the processing of biometric data under
Article 9.2.g) requires that it be provided for in a norm of
European or national law, and in the latter case, such
norm must, according to the cited constitutional doctrine
and as provided in Article 9.2 of the LOPDGDD, have the
rank of law. This law must also specify the essential public
interest that justifies the restriction of the right to the
protection of personal data and under what circumstances
it may be limited, establishing the precise rules that make
the imposition of such limitation and its consequences
foreseeable to the interested party, without the generic
invocation of a public interest being sufficient for these
purposes. Furthermore, this law must also establish the
appropriate guarantees of a technical, organizational, and
procedural nature, which prevent risks of varying
probability and severity and mitigate their effects.
Moreover, this law must in all cases respect the principle of
proportionality, as recalled by the Judgment of the
Constitutional Court 14/2003, of January 28:
“In other words, in accordance with a reiterated doctrine of
this Court, the constitutionality of any restrictive measure
on fundamental rights is determined by the strict
observance of the principle of proportionality. For the
purposes that matter here, it is sufficient to recall that, in
order to verify whether a restrictive measure of a
fundamental right passes the proportionality test, it is
necessary to ascertain whether it meets the following three
requirements or conditions: whether the measure is capable
of achieving the proposed objective (suitability test); whether,
in addition, it is necessary, in the sense that there is no
other more moderate measure to achieve such purpose with
equal effectiveness (necessity test); and finally, whether it is
balanced, as it derives more benefits or advantages for the
general interest than harms to other conflicting goods or
values (strict proportionality test; SSTC 66/1995, of May 8
[RTC 1995, 66], F. 5; 55/1996, of March 28 [RTC 1996, 55],
FF. 7, 8, and 9; 270/1996, of December 16 [RTC 1996, 270],
F. 4.e; 37/1998, of February 17 [RTC 1998, 37], F. 8; 186/2000,
of July 10 [RTC 2000, 186], F. 6).”
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
14

                                                              Legal Office
In the present case, such processing seeks to rely on the
identification obligation imposed on obligated subjects by
Article 3 of Law 10/2010 of April 28, on the prevention of
money laundering and the financing of terrorism:
Article 3. Formal Identification.
1. Obligated subjects shall identify all natural or legal
persons with whom they intend to establish business
relationships or engage in any operations.
Under no circumstances shall obligated subjects maintain
business relationships or carry out operations with natural
or legal persons who have not been duly identified. The
opening, contracting, or maintenance of accounts, savings
books, safety deposit boxes, assets, or numbered,
encrypted, anonymous instruments or those with fictitious
names is particularly prohibited.
2. Prior to establishing the business relationship or executing
any operations, obligated subjects shall verify the identity
of the parties involved through reliable documents. In the
event that it is not possible to verify the identity of the
parties involved through reliable documents at the first
instance, the provisions of Article 12 may be considered,
unless there are risk elements in the operation.
Regulations shall establish the documents that must be
considered reliable for identification purposes.
3. In the field of life insurance, the verification of the identity
of the policyholder must be carried out prior to the
celebration of the contract. The verification of the identity of
the beneficiary of the life insurance must be carried out in
any case prior to the payment of the benefit derived from
the contract or the exercise of the rights of redemption,
advance, or pledge conferred by the policy.
As can be seen, the aforementioned provision establishes an
identification obligation, also establishing the manner in
which it must be carried out: “through reliable documents,”
referring to the regulatory framework in order to determine
“the documents that must be considered reliable.”
In this regard, Royal Decree 304/2014, of May 5, which
approves the Regulation of Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the
prevention of
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
15
Legal Office
money laundering and the financing of terrorism, defines such documents in its Article 6:
Article 6. Authentic documents for formal identification purposes.
1. The following shall be considered authentic documents for formal identification purposes:
a) For individuals of Spanish nationality, the National Identity Document.
For individuals of foreign nationality, the Residence Card, the Foreigner Identity Card, the Passport, or, in the case of citizens of the European Union or the European Economic Area, the official identity document, letter, or card issued by the authorities of their country of origin. The identity document issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation for personnel of diplomatic and consular representations of third countries in Spain shall also be a valid document for the identification of foreigners. Exceptionally, obligated subjects may accept other personal identity documents issued by a governmental authority, provided they have adequate guarantees of authenticity and include a photograph of the holder.
b) For legal entities, the public documents that prove their existence and contain their corporate name, legal form, address, the identity of their administrators, bylaws, and tax identification number. In the case of legal entities of Spanish nationality, a certification from the provincial Commercial Registry, provided by the client or obtained through telematic consultation, shall be admissible for formal identification purposes.
2. In cases of legal or voluntary representation, the identity of the representative and the person or entity represented shall be verified through documentation. For this purpose, a copy of the authentic document referred to in the previous section corresponding to both the representative and the person or entity represented must be obtained, as well as the public document evidencing the powers conferred. Verification through certification from the provincial Commercial Registry, provided by the client or obtained through telematic consultation, shall be admissible.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
16

                                                              Legal Office
3. Obligated subjects shall identify and verify through authentic documents the identity of all participants of entities without legal personality. However, in the case of entities without legal personality that do not engage in economic activities, it shall generally suffice to identify and verify through authentic documents the identity of the person acting on behalf of the entity. In the case of investment funds, the obligation to identify and verify the identity of the participants shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 40.3 of Law 35/2003, of November 4, on Collective Investment Institutions. In Anglo-Saxon trusts or other analogous legal instruments that, despite lacking legal personality, may act in economic transactions, obligated subjects shall require the constitutive document, without prejudice to proceeding with the identification and verification of the identity of the person acting on behalf of the beneficiaries or in accordance with the terms of the trust or legal instrument. For these purposes, trustees shall communicate their status to the obligated subjects when, as such, they intend to establish business relationships or engage in any transactions. In cases where a trustee does not declare their status as such and this circumstance is determined by the obligated subject, the business relationship shall be terminated, proceeding to carry out the special examination referred to in Article 17 of Law 10/2010, of April 28.
4. The identification documents must be valid at the time of establishing business relationships or executing occasional transactions. In the case of legal entities, the validity of the data recorded in the documentation provided must be evidenced by a responsible declaration from the client. On the other hand, Article 13 provides for other means of identification, without prejudice to the requirement to obtain the corresponding authentic documents:
Article 12. Business relationships and non-face-to-face operations.
1. Obligated subjects may establish business relationships or execute operations through telephone, electronic, or telematic means with clients who are not physically present, provided that one of the following circumstances occurs:
a) The identity of the client is evidenced by the qualified electronic signature regulated in Regulation (EU) No. 910/2014 of the 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
17
Legal Office
European Parliament and Council, of July 23, 2014, regarding electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC. In this case, obtaining a copy of the document will not be necessary, although it will be mandatory to retain the identification data that justifies the validity of the procedure.
b) The first deposit must come from an account in the name of the same client opened at an institution based in Spain, in the European Union, or in equivalent third countries.
c) The requirements determined by regulation must be verified.
In any case, within one month from the establishment of the business relationship, the obligated subjects must obtain from these clients a copy of the necessary documents to carry out due diligence.
When discrepancies are noted between the data provided by the client and other information accessible or in the possession of the obligated subject, it will be mandatory to proceed with in-person identification.
The obligated subjects will adopt additional due diligence measures when, during the course of the business relationship, they perceive risks higher than the average risk.
2. The obligated subjects will establish policies and procedures to address the specific risks associated with non-face-to-face business relationships and operations.
However, the use of such means is conditioned by the possible risk of the operation, as indicated in Article 3 of the LPBCFT.
Indeed, risk assessment is a central element in the regulations on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
From the transcribed regulation, which is a transposition of community regulations, it can be easily inferred that it does not meet the requirements established in Article 9.2.g), as the legislator has not provided for the use of biometric data as a proportional measure for the identification of natural persons, establishing the specific and adequate guarantees that arise from the higher risks involved in the processing of such data.
Therefore, since the project intends to process personal data included in the special categories of data referred to in Article 9.1 of the GDPR, as it involves biometric data aimed at the identification of natural persons, it is a prerequisite that one of the circumstances contemplated in its paragraph 2 exists to lift the prohibition on processing such data, established generally in its paragraph 1, requiring Article 9.2 of the LOPDGDD to state that “The data processing referred to in letters g), h) and i) of Article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 based on Spanish law must be covered by a norm with the rank of law, which may establish additional requirements regarding its security and confidentiality.” There is no legal norm, as indicated, that enables such processing under Article 9.2.g) of the GDPR.
Therefore, this prohibition can only be lifted in those cases where the affected party gives their express consent, under letter a) of Article 9.2 of the GDPR, and all other requirements for granting valid consent as outlined in the definition of Article 4.11 of the GDPR must be met: “any manifestation of will that is free, specific, informed, and unequivocal by which the data subject agrees, either by a statement or a clear affirmative action, to the processing of personal data concerning them.”
III
Although the absence of a cause that lifts the prohibition on processing special categories of data determines, by itself, the illegality of the proposed processing, it should be noted that there is also no legal basis that would legitimize it under Article 6.1 of the GDPR on the basis of public interest.
The concept of public interest, or general interest, which is more frequently used in our constitutional text, is an indeterminate legal concept with a dual function: to provide legitimizing coverage for the actions of the Administration and, on the other hand, to limit administrative powers. Thus, the public interest, which, as Parejo Alfonso points out, has a clear directive function for the normative (parliamentary or not) development of the constitutional order, acts as a delimiting criterion for the actions of public authorities, and must, in the first instance, be identified by the legislator, in order to identify the scope in which the actions of the Administration will be developed, subject to the principle of legality and which must objectively serve the general interests (Article 103.CE) and, in any case, under the control of the courts, as the Constitutional Court ruling of June 11, 1984, reminds us, “It cannot be overlooked that the power attributed by the Constitution to the State to define the general interest is an open and indeterminate concept.”
Legal Cabinet
called to be applied to the respective matters, can be controlled, against possible abuses and afterwards, by this Tribunal…”.
First of all, it must be established that the existence of a public interest, which undoubtedly exists in the field of the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, does not legitimize any type of processing of personal data, but must first comply with the conditions that may have been established by the legislator, as provided in article 6 of the GDPR, in its paragraphs 2 and 3, and article 8 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) which regulates the processing of data based on a legal obligation and on a mission carried out in the public interest or the exercise of public interests in its article 8, in the following terms:
“1. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on the fulfillment of a legal obligation enforceable against the controller, in the terms provided in article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when such is provided by a norm of Union Law or a norm with the rank of law, which may determine the general conditions of the processing and the types of data subject to it as well as the transfers that may arise as a consequence of the fulfillment of the legal obligation. Such norm may also impose special conditions on the processing, such as the adoption of additional security measures or others established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
2. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred to the controller, in the terms provided in article 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when it derives from a competence attributed by a norm with the rank of law.”
Therefore, the public interest requires, first of all, its specification by the legislator, taking into consideration all the affected interests, in order to determine the restrictions that may affect particular interests as a consequence of the presence of such general interests, which must be done through a norm with the rank of law.
In the present case, based on the public interest, the legal basis of article 6.1.e) of the GDPR would not apply to the extent that Law 10/2010 does not attribute competences, which are proper to the Public Administrations, to financial entities as obligated subjects to comply with said norm.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
20
Legal Office
On the other hand, from the analysis of the justifications provided by the project promoter, regarding alleged identity thefts, it cannot be inferred that they specifically refer to the public interest pursued by the regulations on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, but rather to cases of fraud to the detriment of the entity itself, responding to a private interest of the same, which would not be admissible, as recalled in another case of the application of facial recognition systems, the Order 72/2021 of the Ninth Section of the Provincial Court of Barcelona dated February 15, 2021:
 “The level of intrusion into the private life of the interested parties must enter into the aforementioned proportionality judgment, which according to the regulations therefore requires the expression of explicit consent from the interested parties. If this consent is not explicitly obtained and is not recorded by means of evidence such as a written document, as is the case in this facial recognition treatment, this must be remedied with the support of another legitimizing basis strong enough to justify the necessity of this treatment to achieve the desired ends, such as maintaining the proper functioning of the business and preventing thefts, burglaries, and situations of insecurity for the employees of the company. This legitimizing basis, Mercadona asserts through its request, is the "public interest" that is also recognized as an exceptional legitimization in the personal data protection regulations. However, this raises doubts when interpreting its validity or lack thereof in this case, as the implementation of this technology actually serves a more private purpose of the company, such as ensuring the security of its facilities.”
IV
What Law 10/2010 does establish, for reasons of public interest, are obligations for those obligated subjects, with the applicable legal basis not being that provided in letter e) of article 6.1 of the GDPR, but rather that contemplated in letter c), as indicated in the Report of this Agency 195/2017:
 “As is well known, Law 10/2010 and its implementing Regulation, approved by Royal Decree 304/2014, of May 5, impose certain due diligence measures on obligated subjects. The clearest enumeration of such measures is found in article 13.1 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of May 20, 2015, relating to the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or the financing of terrorism, and by which Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council is amended, and Directives 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and 2006/70/EC of the Commission are repealed, when it establishes that:
“The due diligence measures with respect to the customer shall comprise the following actions: 
a) the identification of the customer and the verification of their identity based on documents, data, or information obtained from reliable and independent sources; 
b) the identification of the beneficial owner and the adoption of reasonable measures to verify their identity, so that the obligated entity is assured that it knows who the beneficial owner is; likewise, with respect to legal persons, trusts, companies, foundations, and similar legal structures, the adoption of reasonable measures to understand the ownership and control structure of the customer; 
c) the evaluation and, where appropriate, the obtaining of information regarding the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship; 
d) the application of measures for continuous monitoring of the business relationship, particularly through scrutiny of the transactions carried out throughout that relationship, in order to ensure that they are consistent with the knowledge that the obligated entity has of the customer and their business and risk profile, including, when necessary, the origin of the funds, and the adoption of measures to ensure that the documents, data, or information available are up to date. 
When obligated entities adopt the measures mentioned in letters a) and b) of the first paragraph, they shall also verify that any person claiming to act on behalf of the customer is authorized to do so and shall identify and verify the identity of that person.”
The measures are detailed in Chapter II of Law 10/2010 and in Chapter II of its implementing Regulation, consisting of the obligation to collect information from the customers themselves or from third-party sources where such information may be available. These obligations are imposed in a clearly imperative manner in the legal text, specifically providing in certain cases for the obligation to consult available sources, as occurs in the case of persons with public relevance (article 15). Similarly, article 8 of the Law refers to the application of these obligations by third parties.
Legal Office
Thus, the legislation on the prevention of money laundering imposes on obligated subjects, in a clear, precise, and unconditional manner, a series of legal obligations to obtain information, either directly from clients or from third parties when provided for. This would imply that the processing of data, as well as the transfer of the same when it refers to obtaining information from such sources, and even the obtaining of data from other entities belonging to the same Group, would be covered, as long as it is proportional to the fulfillment of the imposed legal obligations, by Article 6.1 c) of the General Data Protection Regulation, which allows the processing of the same when necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation imposed on the data controller.

Consequently, these legal obligations must be fulfilled in the terms established by the law that imposes them, which, for the purposes of this report, refers to identification by verifiable documents, being such document, for Spanish citizens, the National Identity Document, regarding which Article 8 of Organic Law 4/2015, of March 30, on measures for the protection of citizen security establishes, under the heading "Obligations and rights of the holder of the National Identity Document," the following:

“1. Spaniards have the right to be issued the National Identity Document. The National Identity Document is a public and official document and will have the protection granted to it by the laws. It is the only document with sufficient value by itself for the accreditation, for all purposes, of the identity and personal data of its holder.

2. The National Identity Document will include the photograph and signature of its holder, as well as the personal data determined by regulation, which will respect the right to the privacy of the person, without in any case being related to race, ethnicity, religion, beliefs, opinion, ideology, disability, sexual orientation or identity, or political or union affiliation. The support card of the National Identity Document will incorporate the necessary security measures to achieve conditions of quality and unalterability and maximum guarantees to prevent its forgery.

3. The National Identity Document allows Spaniards of legal age who enjoy full capacity to act and emancipated minors to electronically identify its holder, as well as to electronically sign documents, under the terms provided in specific legislation. Persons with judicially modified capacity may exercise these powers when expressly requested by the interested party and do not require, according to the judicial resolution that complements their capacity, the representation or assistance of a protection and support institution to obligate themselves or contract.

The certification service provider will proceed to revoke the electronic signature certificate at the request of the Ministry of the Interior, after receiving the communication from the Civil Registry Manager of the registration of the judicial resolution that determines the need for the complement of capacity to obligate or contract, of the death or declaration of absence or death of a person.”

Therefore, the DNI alone certifies and for all purposes the identity and personal data of its holder. 

Thus, imposing mandatory identification through facial recognition would not conform to what is provided for in current regulations, in addition to being disproportionate, as will be analyzed further on.

V
Finally, and without prejudice to what has been stated above, the other principles of Article 5 of the GDPR should be respected, especially those of purpose limitation and data minimization. 

In particular, regarding the principle of data minimization, which requires that data be “adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed” (Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR), it should be noted that in a highly banked society, the proposed processing of facial recognition data provided for in the project will involve large-scale processing of special categories of data subject to a reinforced regime of guarantees. This is due to the high volume of clients of banking entities operating in Spain, as well as the fact that such processing should be generalized to all financial entities or other subjects obligated by the AML/CFT Law.

Moreover, this massive data processing will primarily affect clients for whom the specific due diligence measures provided for in said regulation will not apply, as it will be indiscriminately applied to all clients or potential clients regardless of the existing risk.
Legal Office
Furthermore, it would be disregarding the provisions of Article 8 of the
Organic Law 4/2015, which, as we have seen, emphasizes that the
DNI (National Identity Document) is the public and official document with sufficient value on its own for the accreditation of the identity and personal data of its holder. This implies that even the State Security Forces and Corps do not have large-scale information on identifying data based on biometric facial recognition data as contemplated in the project.
On the other hand, the proposed system would not meet the proportionality requirements demanded by the Constitutional Court, since, while it may be considered suitable for the proposed purpose, it is not necessary, as there are less intrusive alternative measures, nor is it strictly proportional, to the extent that it derives more benefits for the public interest than harms to other conflicting goods or values, considering that its mass and indiscriminate application is intended for all clients of the obligated subject, and that if generalized, it would imply massive processing of special categories of data that would affect almost the entire population, regardless of the level of risk it represents from the perspective of preventing money laundering and the financing of terrorism, turning the exception for the possibility of processing biometric data into the general rule, contrary to what is intended by the GDPR.
Precisely, the impropriety of using these techniques in a generalized manner is reflected in the aforementioned ruling of the Provincial Court of Barcelona:
“Having stated what precedes in the previous paragraphs, this Chamber
considers that the measure requested by the entity, the commercial
MERCADONA S.A, is in no way proportional, necessary, or suitable. The convicted individuals in this execution, Mr. Juan Ignacio Esmeralda, were imposed a prohibition on access to a specific supermarket of the Mercadona entity, specifically located at Frederic Mompou street s/n in the town of San Boi de Llobregat; there is no record, or at least from the testimony of individuals sent to this section, that they breached the corresponding prohibition of access to the shopping center nor that they are recidivists in such conduct.
Moreover, this Chamber cannot agree that the requested measure is protecting the public interest, but rather the private or particular interests of the company in question, since, as has already been stated in the previous paragraphs, the appropriate guarantees for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties are being violated, not only of those who have been convicted and whose prohibition of access concerns them, but also of the rest of the people who access the aforementioned supermarket.”

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
25

                                                              Legal Office
Consequently, the proposal for data processing based on facial recognition for identification purposes within the framework of the AML/CFT law is not authorized in accordance with Article 9.2.g) of the GDPR, lacks a legal basis under Article 6.1 of the same, and is contrary to the principles of necessity, proportionality, and minimization.
Therefore, being an unlawful processing, this unlawfulness cannot be overlooked by the application of proactive security measures, as the unlawfulness of the processing renders them irrelevant, and thus, there is no need to analyze them.
In accordance with what has been stated, the Spanish Data Protection Agency issues an unfavorable report on the processing of the referenced project.

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
26