 

Guide to outsourcing municipal
information technology

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
publishes help on data protection
Outsourcing of municipal IT

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, March 29, 2021

What does a municipality have to consider with regard to data protection,
if they outsource tasks from their own IT department to service providers
want to outsource? This question has occupied many Bavarians for some time
cal municipalities. After all, the municipalities are responsible for data protection
responsible for the data entrusted to them by citizens.
At the same time, they hope that external service providers will
timely and secure management of this data. Against this background I have
together with the Bavarian municipal auditing association,
direction of a high-level working group, which also took part
the Bavarian State Ministry of the Interior, for Sport and Integration,
the municipal umbrella organizations and the state office for security in the
information technology involved. The result of this working group is
the guidelines published today, which the municipalities
protection-compliant outsourcing of municipal information technology
should support.

In principle, municipalities can, according to Art. 28 data protection
Basic Regulation (DSGVO) engage processors. the advance
Order processing requirements are only neutral and abstract
regulated. The Bavarian State Commissioner for the
Data protection, Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri, specifically:

“The answer to the question of whether and to what extent municipal
IT is permitted, must be outside of Art. 28 GDPR - in other provisions

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from March 29, 2021 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
regulations of the GDPR and in national law. dimensional
It must be taken into account here that the municipalities, due to their
 
wide range of responsibilities data from a wide range of specialist
processing areas - sometimes special categories of personal
related data according to Art. 9 DSGVO or data that are specially
are subject to legal regulations, such as those from the
areas of reporting, taxes, human resources, health or social
senior If such area-specific requirements exist,
they are of course also taken into account in the context of order processing.”

The task of the working group was to check for IT outsourcing
to find a form that can be used in practice for the questions. The-
se is now available in the form of the guidelines published today. loading
It should be particularly relevant for practice that an ISO 27001
Certification of the service provider essential simplifications for the
munen in the selection and review of the contractor.

The “Guideline for outsourcing municipal IT” is available from today
Homepage https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de in the section "Data
Protection reform 2018 – orientation and practical aids – order processing
tion" as a PDF file for free download.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

