
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    02.12.2019
                                Cooperation event "Face_it!" as part of "Data Protection Goes Cinema" On Thursday, December 5, 2019, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI) will show the film "Face_ it!” at 8:30 p.m. in the CinéMayence and will be available for discussion after the performance. In the film "Face_it" (D 2019, 80 min) on digital face recognition, director Gerd Conrad, born in 1941, explores questions of identity in the digital age. The Facial Action Coding System (FACS) is intended to make it possible to decode the secrets of the face, which raises the question of whether this system carries the risk of faces being reduced to expressionless and historyless FACES. A modern fingerprint should lead to access to the personality of every person. In order to present impressions and opinions through the FACS, Gerd Conrad selects selected interview partners: He introduces artists, a media rebel, an art historian, the Minister of State for Digitization and data protection officers, all of whom are critical deal with surveillance by digital facial recognition. Although the film was inspired by a pilot project for digital facial recognition by the Federal Police in cooperation with Deutsche Bahn at Berlin Central Station, it is also quite possible that the director is also focusing on developments such as those in China, where the mass collection of data has already been expanded to monitor citizens in the form of a "social credit system". Anyone who achieves poor values in this system will be severely penalized. Although we are still a long way from this in Europe, experience shows that once the technology is available, it is usually used. Discuss these problems and questions with the LfDI Prof. Dr. Kugelmann, who, alongside Prof. Dr. Schabacher (Head of Media Culture Studies) and Tom Ullrich (Research Associate Media Culture Studies) from the Institute for Film, Theater, Media and Cultural Studies at JGU Mainz will be available for answers after the film screening. Further information can be found here.
                                return
                            



