1/31

 File No.: PS/00063/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and with
based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 09/30/2020 it has entry in the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data (AEPD) the claim presented by Ms. A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereinafter, the representative of the claimants), on behalf of Ms. B.B.B., with
NIF ***NIF.2 (hereinafter claimant 1) and D.ª C.C.C., with NIF ***NIF.3 (hereinafter
claimant 2).

The claim is directed against CLUB DEPORTIVO SAN ROQUE, E.F.F., with CIF
G80588098 -C.D. San Roque- (hereinafter, the claimed or the club) and deals with the
treatment that the club has carried out of the personal data of claimants 1 and 2
and their seven-year-old children.

The claimants, mothers of minors integrated into the soccer club of the
School ***COLEGIO.1 and affiliated to the Royal Football Federation of Madrid (RFFM)
in the Prebenjamines category, they received two calls on 06/17/2020
calls from the number of ***PHONE.1 of who identified himself as the
coordinator of the claimed club in order to offer them that their children play in
your team next season. They state that they did not provide the claimed person with their data
contact nor had they previously had any relationship with him, despite which the
coordinator knew his mobile phone number, the name of his minor children, the
name of the club in which they were registered, their circle of friends
within his soccer team and the "form of the game".

The representative of the claimants considers that the treatment carried out violates the
Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, for the protection of natural persons with regard to the treatment of
personal data and the free circulation of these data and by which the
Directive 95/46/CE (RGPD) and does not comply with the principles of legality, loyalty and transparency.
It adds that the claimants were also not informed in the terms of article 14
of the GDPR.

It also invokes the violation of article 26 of Book IV of the General Regulations of
the Madrid Royal Football Federation (hereinafter the R.G. of the RFFM) that
“considers prohibited contact for recruitment with players from other clubs
while they are federated, but with the express authorization of the
themselves.”

The representative of the claimants, before the explanation that on the origin of the
data of minors gave the respondent in his response to the access exercised
by the claimants, affirms that “the data of the children of my clients are not

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/31

can understand in no case from sources accessible to the public with
own purposes.” To this end, include in the claim letter a link to the page
RFFM website from which, he says, it is possible to obtain information on the players -
exclusively the name and surnames - although it warns that on the date on which
submits the claim, the data cannot be accessed because the website is not
is active then, since it is updated at the beginning of each season.

Provide these documents with the claim:

(i) Evidence of the emails that the claimants sent to the claimant exercising
the right of access to your data: These are the certificates issued by the company
Safe Creative, S.L., relating to sending the claimant two emails to the
address ***EMAIL.1, in which they request access to their personal data and those of
their minor children; to be informed of the purpose of the treatment carried out; of the
recipients to whom the data had been communicated or was planned to be communicated;
of the periods foreseen for the conservation of the data or of the criteria for
determine this term; whether there were automated data processing or
profiling and the importance and expected consequences of such
treatment. The document dated 06/23/2020 certifies the email sent
by claimant 1 and dated 06/24/2020 certifies the mail sent by the
claimant 2.

(ii) The response of the respondent to the requested access, dated 07/03/2020. Response
which is identical for both claimants except on a few points. In both
in writing, the respondent reports the identity of the data controller; of the CIF;
of the phone number; address and email address. It also reports
the purpose of data processing, an offer for their children to play in the
club; that it does not communicate data to third parties; that does not make international transfers of
data; that it does not use data profiling techniques and that the period of conservation of
the data is for five years "according to the civil regulations of the prescriptions". That
may request the rectification or deletion of their personal data or the limitation of the
processing of data relating to your person or oppose such processing as well as
file a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

In its response to the claimants, it informs them that “The end of the treatment was the
offer to play in our Club from your son, which you accepted and treated us in a
kind, which we appreciate.” Regarding the categories of data processed, it indicates
which are his name and telephone number, and about the origin of the data he says that "they were
provided by a person known to you, which we understood had your
consent." Regarding the data of the youngest son, it says that “Regarding the
categories of data subject to treatment of your child [in the document the name and
two surnames of the minor] we inform you that we do not have any data of
personal character except those that are publicly accessible through the federative record
of the RFFM.”

(iii) A copy of the General Regulations of the Royal Madrid Football Federation.

(iv) The power of attorney granted by the claimants in favor of their
representative to “manage all the procedures to be carried out before the Agency
Spanish data protection in order to protect the privacy of its people and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/31

those of their minor children.” It is signed by those represented and the
representative on 09/16/2020. It incorporates the copy of the DNI of the three.

SECOND: The AEPD, in view of the facts set forth in the claim, in order to
evaluate its admissibility for processing, transfers it to the respondent so that in the
period of one month, provide an explanation of the facts denounced, detail the
measures adopted to prevent situations from occurring in the future
similar and proceed to communicate its decision to the claimants.

The document was notified to the respondent by electronic means. was made available in the
electronic headquarters on 10/29/2020, with the rejection occurring on 11/09/2020, as
it appears in the certificate issued by the FNMT that is in the file. It was reiterated
notification by mail and was delivered on 11/18/2020.

On 12/21/2020, the Agency receives the response from the claimant to the request
informative of the Subdirectorate of Inspection in which it offers an explanation of the
events that occurred, informs of the measure adopted to avoid similar incidents in
the future and requests that the claim not be admitted for processing. In short, it exposes
Next:

- Considers that the claim is summarized in the "Unlawful treatment of information and
not to state how the data is obtained, as well as the information of their children by
sources not accessible to the public.

- Explains that on 06/17/2020 a Prebenjamines football match was held between the
claimed club and the School ***COLEGIO.1, to which the children under the age of
the claimants, which allowed him to know the manner of play of all the players and
“Given that each player has his name on the shirt, it is not difficult to identify
the name of a player with his form of play”.

- That in his club there are players who are students of that school and among them
know and express their interest in playing together and that "we do not process data of these
players beyond public data or those known for holding
matches".

- That they informed a father of his club, D. D.D.D. whose son studies in
that school, our interest in the players “and we asked if he could get in touch
contact their parents in case they are interested in them playing in our Club
for the next season.” It indicates that “This father facilitated the contact of these
mothers through a friend of these mothers and who share a WhatsApp group,
so we understand that they have communicated our interest and are satisfied
with which we call them.” “We understood by this fact his manifestation of free will
and informed of the reason for our request and our basis for requesting your
telephone as a means of contact.

- That in the telephone contact maintained with the claimants they identified themselves in all
time and that even one of them returned the call requesting a day to be able to
test your child.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/31

-That the soccer game took place on 06/17/2020 and that in this soccer category the
players are released at the end of the season, "which occurs when you have
this match took place, (June 17)”, and the calls to the mothers were made “in days
later”, so article 26 of the General Regulations of the
RFFM, contrary to what the representative of the claimants maintains.

- Regarding the measures adopted to avoid events such as the one that occurred, he explains that,
since they have implemented all the necessary ones to avoid the violation of
the legal principles whose compliance is questioned in the claim made
against him, "the only thing left to do was remonstrate with those who have effectively been able to cause a
punctual and involuntary violation of these principles implanted in the philosophy and
club practice. The coordinator is informed of the need to request a document
signed that authorizes the call and the reasons for it to the parents.”

THIRD: On 02/01/2021 the Director of the AEPD issues a resolution admitting
processing the claim.

The agreement for admission to processing was electronically notified to the representative of the
claimants on 02/01/2021.

FOURTH: On 06/25/21 the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agrees to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party in accordance with
provided in articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5.a) of the GDPR.

The opening agreement provided that the corrective measure of
warning (article 58.2.b, of the RGPD) and order the claimed party, in accordance with
article 58.2.g of the RGPD, which proceeded to the deletion of the personal data of the
Claimants 1 and 2 and their respective minor children.
 
FIFTH: The agreement to open the sanctioning procedure was notified to the
claimed electronically. It was made available on 06/28/2021 and the
rejection of the notification after ten days in accordance with article 43.2. of the
LPACAP, with the effects provided for in article 41.5 of the aforementioned law, as
accredits the FNMT certificate in the file.

The respondent makes no objections to the initial agreement.

SIXTH: On 09/29/2021, the instructor of the procedure agrees to open the
a test phase and the practice of the following steps:

Consider reproduced for the purposes of evidence the claim presented by the
claimants 1 and 2 and their attached documentation, as well as the documents generated and
obtained by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection on the occasion of the
Transfer of the claim and the informative request to the respondent.

Evidence was practiced (i) before the defendant; (ii) before the RFFM and (iii) before the
claimants.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/31

Yo. Request for evidence to the claimed:

The letter addressed to the defendant, in which he is informed of the opening of the
proof and several proof proceedings are requested, it was notified electronically in
date 09/29/2021 producing the rejection of the notification in accordance with article
43.2. of the LPACAP, as evidenced by the certificate of the FNMT that works in the
proceedings. However, this Agency reiterated the notification by postal mail
which is recorded received by the respondent on 10/28/20210.

The respondent is required to report and provide:

1. What was the legal basis for the treatment of the personal data of the players
minors and their respective mothers on the occasion of telephone calls
who directed them.
2. Documentary evidence of the exact date on which the calls were made
phone calls to claimants.
3. Copy of the record of treatment activities (RAT) of the Club

On 11/15/2021, the respondent's response to the
issues raised with which it provides two screenshots relating to "Details
of the call history” and a copy of the RAT of the Club.

1. Regarding the legal basis of the treatment carried out, the respondent says:

“The legal basis for the processing of information is the legitimate interest of the
data controller.” “The purpose is the communication of the interest of the
responsible for providing proof of access to the club”. And offers this explanation:

“Considering the weighting of the data processing of minors,
We communicate that they are public access through the Royal Football Federation of
Madrid. These minors express to their friends and players of our club their
interest in playing for our club and one of his reasons is that his club has this
activity as extracurricular and due to the Covid situation, your school would suspend the
extracurricular activities. Likewise, it is publicly accessible by wearing your bib number and
name on the shirts of the matches they play.”

“In compliance with our obligations under the RGPD and LOPDGDD
we have established an informative clause that must be signed by all the players or
in the case of minors, their parents or legal guardians when tests or
They become part of our team.”

“Analyzing the interest of the Responsible and the interest of the players in an analysis of
the least intrusive and most transparent way and from the maximum respect when dealing with
minors and in our obligation of legal compliance, it is requested through a
parent of our club inform your parents of our interest in
evaluate and test their children so that they can play in
our club. We understand that the treatment is necessary for the legitimate interest of the
Responsible and the interest shown by minors.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/31

“It is culturally and socially assumed by custom that teams offer their clubs
to considering players with options to progress. the community at large
acknowledges and genuinely expects that data controllers can act and
treat the data in pursuit of said interest.”

  “We did not find in our assessment any alternative method that allows us to
communicate our interest and purpose to the interested parties and that likewise allows us to
comply with our legal obligations to achieve the objectives pursued and
with the least impact for stakeholders. The express authorization of the interested parties
for the processing of your information and the establishment of contact is not
we find viable until contact has been established.

Regarding the treatment of the personal data of the claimants, it specifies:

“Providing us with the data through an intermediary with the clear purpose that
we communicated to their mothers, in this case we understand that they gave their consent
so that we could communicate with them, establishing an "action" or an act
clear affirmative that reflects a manifestation of free, specific, informed will
and unequivocal of the interested party to accept the processing of personal data
that concern him.”

“The data provided to us was your name (not surnames) and contact telephone number.
attending to the quality of the data since for the communicated purpose it is not
need to process more data.

“Analyzing the data provided, we understand that it is proportional to the purpose
raised for communication and test offer in our club, establishing
a single call from us in relation to the purpose communicated to the
mothers and with the probability that there is no interference in the interests or
fundamental rights or freedoms of the data subjects.

“Our communication and the purpose for which we request your data we consider
that allow the decision of the interested party to oppose or not, to the delivery of their data.
If, on your part, no interest had been expressed and we were not summoned to a
subsequent call, we would proceed to a voluntary exclusion on our part of the
information processing.”

“After the above, we understand that those affected gave their consent to the
processing of your data for the establishment of contact for the purpose
communicated by providing us with your data since otherwise we could not have
established that contact.”

“Likewise, we understand that the impact on the rights of the interested parties is null.
or very low since on 07/07/2020 we attended to your exercised right of access
before our entity and in it we communicate our intention to attend to your
rights and especially that he could exercise the right of opposition as stipulated
in article 14.”

“We understand that this condition complements the necessity requirement, under the
article 6 and that requires a relationship between the treatment and the interest pursued.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/31

“In attention to the protection of the interested parties, we have taken into account the interest
of those affected and not only their fundamental rights and freedoms.”

“The terms <<interests>> and <<rights>> we understand that they must be interpreted
in a broad sense We understand that it is necessary to also take into account the
<<interest>> of those affected, not only their fundamental rights and freedoms, the
which we respect at all times and so we let their mothers know.”

Regarding the "guarantees offered to the interested parties, we understand that they are sufficient and
adequate to reduce the impact of the data subjects and the non-use of
improper. We offer the attention of your rights and our disposition before any
pressure from third parties because of their position with them.”
(emphasis ours)

2. Provide two screenshots related to “Call History Details”. In the
document there are five registered calls, all from June 17, made between the
5:34 p.m. and 8:23 p.m., all of them directed to, or coming from, the line
number ***PHONE.2. There are two outgoing calls in the history, addressed to
that number, made at 5:34 p.m. Both with the following comment: “I don't know.
was able to contact." From that telephone number there are two incoming calls, to which
8:08 p.m. and 8:20 p.m., with these comments, respectively: “it rang 8
times”, “rang 6 times”. There is an outgoing call directed to that number at 8:23 p.m.
hours.

Thus, it can be concluded from the call history provided that the coordinator of the
claimed club was unable to contact the claimant holder of the number by telephone
telephone until 8:23 p.m., despite the fact that he tried twice without success (at
5:34 p.m.) and despite the fact that the recipient of the call returned the call,
also without success, on two occasions, at 8:08 p.m. and at 8:20 p.m.

3. Copy of the RAT of the club prepared on 06/14/2019 and updated on 11/23/2019.

The document includes a total of thirteen processing activities and for each
one identifies the treatment in question, includes the data of the person in charge of
treatment and the DPD, informs of the basis of legality, the term of conservation of the
data, the origin of the data and the groups affected, the category of data
treated, of the security measures, of the data communications and of the
international transfers.

Recorded processing activities include consistent processing
in “Management of players” (RAT-01-001) and “Management of minor players”
(RAT-01-0002) The treatment activity called
"Prospecting Players" (RAT-01-012) Regarding the latter, the document offers
the next information:

- "1. Identification of the treatment”. “Purpose description”: “Data management of
potential players as well as their parents or guardians in the case of minors
to offer them participation in the following seasons in our club.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/31

-   "4. Legality of the treatment. Basis of legality. The treatment is based on
consent of the affected party.
-  "5. Conservation terms. They will be kept for the time necessary to
comply with the purpose for which they were collected and to determine the possible
responsibilities that may arise from said purpose and the treatment of the data.
data. Once the aforementioned period has expired, they will be deleted or at the request of the affected party.”
- “6. Description of the treatment.” “Origin and provenance of the data. of own
affected person or his legal representative. Affected groups: People
interested in passing the tests to belong to the club”. (emphasis ours)
- “7. Categories of processed data. Data typology.” Mention the name and
surnames, telephone, email and handwritten signature.

The treatment called "Contact Agenda" of the club (RAT-
01-010) of which it is specified that the basis of legality of the treatment "will be the
consent of those affected.

(ii) Request for proof to the RFFM.

The brief was notified electronically on 09/29/2021 and was accepted by its addressee
On the same date. More than passed the term granted to evacuate the procedure
without a response having been received, the test request is reiterated by means of a
new writ notified electronically on 10/27/2021. Requested:

1.To inform if the end date of the 2019/2020 season was the same for
all the clubs that participated in the official Prebenjamines competition or if
differed from one club to another depending on the date on which each had celebrated
the last game of the competition. If so, you are requested to report the date of
completion of the 2019/2020 season in the Prebenjamines category for the
CLUB DEPORTIVO SAN ROQUE, E.F.F., and for the School ***COLEGIO.1.
2. Explain if the procedures to register as an amateur player in a
license of that RFFM are practiced by the interested party or his representative, directly
before the RFFM or exclusively before the club to which the player belongs.
3.To report if during the 2019/2020 season they were discharged with
license of that federation in the category of Prebenjamines the children who formed
part of the football club of the School *** COLEGIO.1 whose names and surnames are
detailed (the children of claimants 1 and 2).
4. To provide a copy of the information regarding the protection of personal data
staff that the RFFM provided to the parents of the minors who
obtained a license from that Royal Federation in the Prebenjamines category
for the 2019/2020 season.
5.Regarding the list published by the RFFM website -which includes personal data
of the players belonging to each of the clubs registered in the competition
oficial- and in particular regarding the 2019/2020 season, it is requested:
-Detail what was the legal basis of that treatment: the publication of the lists
with the personal data of the players.
-Detail what was the purpose of that data processing.
-Detail what information was provided to the clubs that participated in the competition
official of the 2019/220 season regarding the purpose of the treatment materialized
in the publication on the RFFM website of the data of the players of each club, in
its various categories.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/31

The RFFM responds on 03/11/2021 and provides a copy of the federative licenses of the
children of the claimants and of the Federal Circular No. 5 -Season 2019/2020.

1.States that “The end date was the same for all categories
competitions, regardless of the date on which they have held the
last match."

It declares that “on May fourteenth, two thousand and twenty, in a meeting held by the
Delegate Commission of the General Assembly of the Royal Football Federation of
Madrid, it is agreed to terminate the competitions in the state in which they are
were at the time of the declaration of the state of alarm by the
Government, with the existing classification on that date and computing for these purposes
all the matches played in each of them, with the consequences
qualifications that this entails.” In this sense, the Federal Circular No. 5-
Season 2019/2020, whose copy is provided, which includes the agreements adopted by the
Delegate Commission of the General Assembly on 05/14/2020, establishes that, as
consequence of the exceptional circumstances of force majeure that derive from
the COVID-19 pandemic, it has been agreed: “1. Terminate in the state in
that were at the time of the declaration of the state of alarm by the
Government, with the existing classification on that date and computing for these purposes
all the matches played in each of them, with the consequences
qualifications that this entails.”

Let us remember that the state of alarm entered into force on 03/14/2020 as ordered by the
Royal Decree 463/2020, of March 14, declaring the state of alarm
for the management of the health crisis situation caused by Covid 19.

2. Regarding the procedures to register as an amateur player in a
license of the RFFM, informs that they are practiced by the player -or in the case of minors
age by their parents or guardians - before the club of their choice, being the club who
subsequently requests the registration of the licenses to the RFFM.

3. Confirms that the minor children of claimants 1 and 2 were given
registered during the 2019/2020 season in the RFFM with the Colegio football club
*** COLEGIO.1 in the Prebenjamín category.

4. Regarding the information regarding data protection that was provided, it states that
“It is contained in the license itself that the parents of minors sign with the
club of your choice at the time of formalizing the license, in this case, Colegio
***SCHOOL.1.”

The RFFM has provided a copy of the federative license of the two minor players
old. It is a form with the anagram and the identification data of the
RFFM and the legend Season 2019/2020. Each document carries a code
bars. The license is signed by the minor player and the authorization is recorded.
of one of their parents (personal data, name, surnames, NIF and signature). To the
footer of the document appears this legend:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/31

In accordance with the provisions of the RGPD “and with respect to the data that
identify as federated, you are informed that they will be treated to carry out the
requested order. We will treat your image and/or your voice based on interest
of the Federation, according to article 36 of Law 15/1994, of 28
of December, of the Sport of the Community of Madrid.
Your data will be incorporated into the Data Protection System of Real
Madrid Football Federation, with NIF G78965043, and address at [...]. will be
kept for the duration of the consent, or where appropriate, the
legal time established for each of the legal obligations that derive
of the treatments for which you have consented. [....].”

5. Related to the publication on the RFFM website of a list with the data
personal details of the players of each of the clubs registered in the competition
answer the following:

5.1. That the legal basis that legitimizes the publication of the lists with the data
personal data of the players who are members of the federated club squads is the
fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest, article 8.2 LOPDGDD, which
It is based on the fact that Law 15/1994 "establishes as functions of the federations the
organization of official sports competitions, as well as the promotion, with
general character, of its sport modality or modalities throughout the territory of the
Community of Madrid, article 36, sections a) and b). Understanding that these functions
are tasks that correspond or have to be carried out by the federation by derivation of a
competence attributed by a norm with the force of law.” In particular, sections d),
e) and h) of article 36 of Law 15/1994, of December 28, on Sports of the
Community of Madrid attributes to it the functions of “d) Organizing and supervising the
official competitions in its territorial area.”; “e) Exercise disciplinary power in
the terms established in this Law and in its development provisions.”; Y
“h) Collaborate, where appropriate, in the organization or supervision of the official competitions of
state or international level.

5.2. Regarding the purpose of this treatment, it highlights that it was carried out and is carried out
“to fulfill the functions of organizing competitions of a
team sport and the promotion of said sport, making the participants visible
components of the respective templates and moving, as the main reason for a
sport from its lower categories to the professionals, that whoever wants
You can practice it with all the federative guarantees, that is, officially.”

5.3. It states that it is the player's Club that provides the RFFM with the details of the
player on the occasion of processing his license, "so this federation does not
It requires you to send him data that he does not have.” Regarding the rest of the clubs, he says: “being the
website of the RFFM, in this section, of free access, do not require that they be provided
data, but they can access the web and treat them according to the purpose for which they have been
been published.” (emphasis ours)

(iii) Request for evidence to the claimants:

The brief was notified electronically on 09/30/2021 and was accepted by its addressee
On the same date. It is requested that you send to the AEPD the documents that prove

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/31

what was the exact date each of the claimants received the call
telephone from the number ***PHONE.1.

The representative of the claimants responds on 10/13/2021 and provides various
documents from which it is inferred that the telephone calls made by the
claimed would have occurred on 06/17/2020. In short, it provides:

-Copy of the registration made on 06/18/2020 in the Incident Form of the
School to which the soccer club of the minors of the incident that occurred on the day belongs
06/17/2020. The facts that are detailed are the telephone calls made to the
parents of the two minors.

-Copy of the email sent to the DPO of the College by claimant 1 in which
reports that he received from the number ***TELÉFONO.1 two telephone calls on
06/17/2020 at 5:34 p.m., to which he could not respond, and another at 8:23 p.m. in which the
interlocutor identified himself as the coordinator of the claimed club, showed his interest
for his son to play in the club and informed him of his intention to do the same
offer to two other minors, his son's teammates, because he knew they were
friends with each other.

- Email sent on 06/19/2020 to claimant 1 from an address
email of the School informing him of the record of the incidence that had
statement stating the date on which the calls were made on the day
06/17/2020.

-Email certified by ***URL.1 sent to the RFFM on 06/19/2020 in the
that the events that occurred are communicated, you are informed that the College club does not
has provided information on the federated members or their families to the claimed club and
announces that the facts would be denounced before the State security forces
and before the AEPD given its seriousness.

In that same brief, the representative of the claimants, in addition to numerous
legal considerations on the burden of proof, requests, under article
77 of the LPACAP, that the following be practiced by the instructor of the file
trial proceedings:

“Contribution and exhibition by the claimed party regarding the accreditation of the
telephone calls made to the mobile numbers of my claimed.”

“Contribution upon request to VODAFONE and the telephone company of the
claimed for the identification of the calls in relation to the numbers of
mobile phones that are the object of this sanctioning file.”

It adds that "for evidentiary purposes, we designated the files, books, records,
public or private of how many entities and individuals have been mentioned in
throughout this writing, as well as any others that appear or are
emerge from them and from the accompanying documentation, especially the
owned by the party
claimed. “

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/31

Regarding the evidence proposed by the representative of the claimants, the
following details:

The first of them, that the complainants do not have the status of interested parties in the
administrative procedure nor, therefore, do they enjoy the rights that the
Article 53 of the LPACAP recognizes those interested in the procedure, among them,
section e), “make allegations, use the means of defense admitted by the
Legal System, and to provide documents at any stage of the procedure
prior to the hearing procedure [...]” In this sense, there would be no place to enter into assessing the
admissibility of the proposed evidence.

However, the proposed tests are totally unnecessary for the following reasons:
Reasons: On the one hand, there are elements in the file that confirm the date of
06/17/2019 as the one in which the calls were made and, on the other, because the
relevance of that date for instruction was connected with the application of the
article 26 of the RFFM General Regulations and, according to the information
facilitated by the RFFM, the 2019/2020 season ended many months earlier,
exactly on the date on which the state of alarm was declared by the Government, for
which as a result of the response of the RFFM is not relevant the exact day of the month of
June in which the calls would have been made.

SEVENTH: The proposed resolution is signed on 02/23/2022 in the following
terms:

<<That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection the
FILE of the sanctioning procedure PS/00063/2021 opened to the CLUB
DEPORTIVO SAN ROQUE E.F.F., with NIF G80588098, for not being appreciated in the
conduct examined signs of infringement of article 6.1. of the RGPD.>>

EIGHTH: The proposed resolution was notified on 02/23/2022 and the notification was
accepted on 02/24/2021. Article 73.1 of the LPACAP establishes that "The formalities
that must be completed by the interested parties must be carried out within the period of
ten days from the day following the notification of the corresponding act, except in
in the event that a different term is set in the corresponding regulation.

After the indicated period has elapsed, there is no record in this Agency
that the respondent has made allegations to the resolution proposal.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Claimants 1 and 2, mothers of seven-year-old children belonging to the
football club of the College ***COLEGIO.1 and affiliated to the Royal Football Federation of
Madrid (RFFM) in the Prebenjamines category, denounce that they received in their
mobile phones each calls from the coordinator of the claimed club, who is not
knew and with whom they had not had any relationship, in which he identifies them by
your name and communicates your interest in their children becoming part of the team
of the club, demonstrating during that conversation that he knows the name and surname of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/31

their children, their way of playing, the soccer team they belong to and the name of their
friends.

SECOND: The claimed club admits that its coordinator made two calls
telephone calls to the mothers of the minors (claimants 1 and 2) from the number
***TELEPHONE.1 in order to offer them that their children play on their team in the
next season, for which the minors had to carry out a test at the club.

THIRD: On the origin of the personal data of the claimants -name and
mobile number- the respondent has explained that they communicated to a parent of his club,
D. D.D.D., whose son studies at the same school as the children of the claimants, the
interest in minors playing with them “and we asked if he could get in touch
contact their parents in case they are interested in them playing in our Club
for the next season.”

He has declared that “This father facilitated the contact of these mothers through a
friend of these mothers and who share a WhatsApp group, so we understand
that they have communicated our interest and are happy that we call them.”
“We understand by this fact his manifestation of free and informed will of the reason
of our request and our basis for requesting your phone as a means of
Contact".

FOURTH: The claimed club admits that it knew the names and surnames of the
minors, children of the claimants, and states that this data “is publicly accessible to the
wear their number and name on the shirts in the matches they play”; which can
access to this information “through the RFFM federative file” and that “there is no
we treat data of these players beyond public data or those known by
holding matches”.

FIFTH: The claimed club admits that it knew how the minors played,
children of the claimants and explains that they held a football match in
Prebenjamines with his school team on 06/17/2020, which allowed him to know the
form of play of all the players and "taking into account that each player takes his
name on the shirt it is not difficult to identify the name of a player with his shape of
play".

SIXTH: The minors, children of claimants 1 and 2, were affiliated with the RFFM
during the 2019/2020 season, as evidenced by their respective federative records
that are in the file sent by the Madrid Football Federation.

The license, which includes the names and surnames and the club to which they belonged
during that season -Colegio ***COLEGIO.1-, is signed by the player under
age and includes the authorization of one of their parents (personal data, name,
surnames, NIF and signature). At the bottom of the document appears this legend:

“[...] regarding the data that identifies you as a federated member, you are informed that
will be treated to carry out the requested order. We will treat your image and/
or your voice based on the legitimate interest of the Federation, as provided by the
Article 36 of Law 15/1994, of December 28, on Community Sport
from Madrid.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/31

Your data will be incorporated into the Data Protection System of Real
Madrid Football Federation, with CIF G78965043, and address at [...]. will be
kept for the duration of the consent, or where appropriate, the
legal time established for each of the legal obligations that derive
of the treatments for which you have consented. [...]”

SEVENTH: The RFFM has reported that in the 2019/2020 season the date of
completion of the competition was the same in all categories,
“regardless of the date on which the last match was held” and that
such date coincided with the date on which the Government declared the state of alarm.

It has provided the RFFM Circular "No. 5-Season 2019/2020" in which it is collected
the decision adopted by the Delegate Committee of the General Assembly on 05/14/2020,
as a consequence of the exceptional circumstances of force majeure that
derive from the COVID-19 pandemic:

<<1. Consider finished in the state in which they were at the time of the
declaration of the state of alarm by the Government, with the existing classification
to said date and calculating for these purposes all the matches played in each
one of them, with the classifying consequences that this entails.>>

EIGHTH: There is documentation in the file that proves that the claimants 1
and 2 exercised the right of access to their data and those of their minor children
by email addressed to the respondent, respectively, on the 23rd and 24th of
June 2020 and that the respondent responded on 07/03/2020.

The respondent reported in his response the identity of the data controller;
of the NIF; of the phone number; home; electronic address; purpose of
data processing; retention period; that it does not communicate data to third parties; No
makes international data transfers and does not use profiling techniques
data.

Regarding the data processed and its origin, it reported that, with respect to the claimants, the data
that he had was the name and telephone number and that "they were provided by a
person known to you, which we understood had your consent.”
Regarding the data of the minor children, name and two surnames, it reported that “[...]
We do not have any personal data except those that are access
public through the RFFM federative record.”

NINTH: The Record of Treatment Activities (RAT) of the respondent mentions
thirteen treatment activities, including those called "Management of
players” (RAT-01-001, “Management of minor players” (RAT-01-0002) and
"Prospecting Players" (RAT-01-012). Regarding this last activity
appears in it, in point 6, "Description of the treatment", as "Affected groups:
People interested in passing the tests to belong to the club”.

TENTH: The RAT informs that the respondent has designated a Delegate of
Data Protection of the one who only provides this information: ***EMAIL.2.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/31

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and according to what is established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, is competent
To initiate and resolve this procedure, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The principles relating to the processing of personal data are set out in article
5 of the RGPD, which provides:

"1. The personal data will be:
a) treated lawfully, loyally and transparently with the interested party (<<lawfulness, loyalty and
transparency>>)
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");
(…)
2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (<<proactive responsibility>>)”

Article 6 of the RGPD, under the heading "Legality of the treatment", specifies in its
section 1 in what cases is the processing of data considered lawful:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:
a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;
d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person.
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/31

interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.
The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

Article 6 of the RGPD provides in sections 2, 3, and 4:

2. Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions
in order to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation with regard to the
treatment in compliance with section 1, letters c) and e), setting more
specifies specific treatment requirements and other measures that guarantee a
lawful and equitable treatment, including other specific situations of
treatment under Chapter IX.

3. The basis of the treatment indicated in section 1, letters c) and e), must be
established by:
a) Union law, or
b) the law of the Member States that applies to the data controller.

The purpose of the treatment must be determined in said legal basis or, in what
regarding the treatment referred to in section 1, letter e), will be necessary for the
fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of powers
data conferred on the data controller. Said legal basis may contain
specific provisions to adapt the application of rules of this
Regulation, among others: the general conditions that govern the legality of the treatment
by the controller; the types of data object of treatment; the interested
affected; the entities to which personal data can be communicated and the purposes
of such communication; purpose limitation; the retention periods of the
data, as well as the operations and procedures of the treatment, including the
measures to ensure lawful and fair treatment, such as those relating to other
specific treatment situations under chapter IX. Union Law
or of the Member States will fulfill a public interest objective and will be proportional
to the legitimate end pursued.

4. When the treatment for another purpose other than that for which the data was collected
personal data is not based on the consent of the interested party or on the Law
of the Union or of the Member States which constitutes a necessary and
proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard the stated objectives
in article 23, paragraph 1, the data controller, in order to determine
if processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which they were collected
initially the personal data, will take into account, among other things:

a) any relationship between the purposes for which the data was collected
data and the purposes of the intended further processing;
b) the context in which the personal data have been collected, in particular by what
regarding the relationship between the interested parties and the data controller;
c) the nature of the personal data, specifically when categories are processed
special personal data, in accordance with article 9, or personal data
relating to criminal convictions and offences, in accordance with article 10;
d) the possible consequences for data subjects of the envisaged further processing;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/31

e) the existence of adequate safeguards, which may include encryption or
pseudonymization.”

Article 4 of the RGPD, “Definitions”, specifies in sections 1 and 2,
respectively, what is meant by "personal data" and "processing" for the purposes of
this Regulation:

“«personal data»: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

“«processing»: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

III

1. The opening agreement of this sanctioning procedure attributed to the club
claimed an alleged infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD by having processed data
of the claimants - their names and mobile phone numbers - and of their
seven-year-old children - their names and surnames, their way of playing, the team in which
played and the name of their friends - without having justified that both treatments
They respected the principle of legality.

The treatment on which the claim was based consisted, with respect to the data of the
claimants, in their collection and in the telephone calls that the claimed made the
06/17/2020 to each of the mothers in order to offer them that their children
will play for your club the following season and, as regards personal data
of minors, in their collection and in their use for the identification of
players. Also, regarding the data of both, in its conservation, as
manifested by the claimed club in its response to the access exercised by the
claimants.

It should be remembered that the respondent, in his response to the request for information from the
Subdirectorate of Inspection of the AEPD, prior to the admission of the claim and the
beginning of the sanctioning file, did not justify what was the basis of the legality of the
treatment carried out. He stated then that the treatment of the data of the
minors was based on the fact that they had been obtained from a publicly available source and,
on the treatment of the data of the claimants, mothers of the minors, said that
understood that the fact that the father of another player on his team had
provided their mobile phone numbers and names was a consequence of the
willingness of both to consent to their treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/31

Given these statements by the respondent, in the agreement to open the proceeding
It was highlighted that public access sources, to which the articles referred
6.2 and 3.j of Organic Law 15/1999 on the Protection of Personal Data
(LOPD), do not exist in the current data protection regulations in the sense that
they had in the LOPD and that the RGPD requires that the consent be express (article
4.11), unlike what the LOPD provided, which admitted tacit consent, for
which did not prove the alleged consent of the claimants for the
treatment of your data.

In accordance with article 5.2. of the RGPD -principle of proactive responsibility- it is up to the
responsible for the treatment to be in a position to prove that the treatment is
based on any of the legal causes provided for in article 6.1 of the RGPD.
Taking into consideration that provision, which affects the burden of proof of the
compliance with the principles governing the processing of personal data
personal, for what matters here, of the principle of legality, and the circumstance that in
In this particular case, it was necessary to exercise extreme control over the legality of the treatment,
because it concerned data of minors, in order to clarify the facts and purge
liability that the claimed party may have incurred was agreed upon
opening of sanctioning procedure PS/00063/2021.

2. Respondent made no objections to the opening agreement, most likely
because you did not access the electronic notification. However, in the testing phase -whose
proceedings were notified in addition to electronically by mail - the claimed
has answered the questions asked and has justified the legality of the treatment in
a legal basis other than the one you invoked in your brief responding to the request
of prior information.
 
The respondent affirms in his answer to the tests carried out, a letter dated
11/15/21, that the treatment is based on the prevalence of the legitimate interest that
holds, in accordance with article 6.1.f) of the RGPD. It expressly states that “The legal basis
for the processing of information is the legitimate interest of the data controller.
treatment." and that “The purpose is the communication of the interest of the person in charge in
provide proof of access to the club”.

On the reason for the legality of the treatment that he now invokes, the respondent does
various considerations dealing with the following issues: (i) the origin of
data of minors; (ii) the reasonable expectations that existed that the data
of the minors were treated with the purpose of offering them the possibility of playing in
your team next season; (iii) weighing of the interests of the controller
of the treatment and the interests of those affected; (iv) the impact that the treatment
could have had on the rights of the interested parties; (v) the need for
treatment; (vi) and the safeguards for the protection of the rights of the
interested. The statement made by the respondent is transcribed below:

(i) “Considering the weighting of the processing of the data of minors,
We communicate that they are public access through the Royal Football Federation of
Madrid. [....]. It is also publicly accessible by wearing your bib number and name on the
t-shirts of the matches they play.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/31

(ii) “It is culturally and socially assumed by custom that the teams offer their
clubs to players they consider to have options for progress. The community in
generally recognizes and genuinely expects that data controllers can
act and process the data in pursuit of said interest.”

(iii) “Analyzing the interest of the Responsible and the interest of the players in an analysis
in the least intrusive and most transparent way and with the utmost respect when dealing with
of minors and in our obligation of legal compliance, it is requested through
A parent from our club informs their parents of our interest in
evaluate and test their children so that they can play in
our club. We understand that the treatment is necessary for the legitimate interest of the
Responsible and the interest shown by minors.

“In attention to the protection of the interested parties, we have taken into account the interest
of those affected and not only their fundamental rights and freedoms.” "The terms
<<interests>> and <<rights>> we understand that they must be interpreted in the
broad We understand that it is necessary to also take into account the <<interest>> of
those affected, not only their fundamental rights and freedoms, which
we respect them at all times and we let their mothers know that.”

“These minors express their interest to their friends and players from our club.
to play in our club and one of his reasons is that his club has this activity
as extracurricular and due to the Covid situation, his school would suspend activities
extracurricular.”

(iv) “Likewise, we understand that the impact on the rights of the interested parties is
null or very low since on 07/07/2020 we attended to your right of access
exercised before our entity and in it we inform you of our intention to attend to your
rights and especially that he could exercise the right of opposition as stipulated
in article 14.”

(v) “We did not find in our valuation any alternative method that allows us to
communicate our interest and purpose to the interested parties and that likewise allows us to
comply with our legal obligations to achieve the objectives pursued and
with the least impact for stakeholders. The express authorization of the interested parties
for the processing of your information and the establishment of contact is not
we find viable until contact has been established.”

(vi) Regarding the "guarantees offered to the interested parties, we understand that they are sufficient and
adequate to reduce the impact of the data subjects and the non-use of
improper. We offer the attention of your rights and our disposition before any
pressure from third parties because of their position with them.”
“In compliance with our obligations under the RGPD and LOPDGDD
we have established an informative clause that must be signed by all the players or
in the case of minors, their parents or legal guardians when tests or
They become part of our team.”

With regard to the treatment of the data of the claimants, mothers of the
minors, the respondent does not clearly state what, in his opinion, is the legal basis for
that treatment. Although it begins by stating that, in general, "The legal basis

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/31

for the processing of information is the legitimate interest of the data controller.
treatment.”, further on appears to imply that the legal basis for that
treatment is consent. Thus, it says: “Providing us with data through
intermediary with the clear purpose that we communicate to their mothers, in this case
We understand that they gave their consent so that we could communicate with them,
establishing an “action” or a clear affirmative act that reflects a manifestation of
free, specific, informed and unequivocal will of the interested party to accept the
treatment of personal data that concerns you.” (The underline is
our)

In turn, it seems to contradict the above in another paragraph when it refers to the right of
opposition of the interested parties, which presupposes that the legal basis of the
treatment of the personal data of the complainants was also the prevalence of
your legitimate interest in accordance with article 6.1.f) of the RGPD. The defendant says in that
meaning, when referring to obtaining data from mothers through
intermediary: “Our communication and the purpose for which we request your data
we consider that they allow the decision of the interested party to oppose or not the delivery
of your data.”

Well, beyond what was stated by the respondent regarding the treatment of
data of the claimants -statements that suffer from a lack of clarity- are
advances that the same legal basis that legitimizes the processing of personal data
minors in order to offer them to play in the club the following
season operates in this case as a legal basis for data processing
personal data of the claimants, in particular, their name and mobile number, unique
data on which the treatment they denounce was about.

In the case in which we are dealing with the players whom the defendant wants to make a
offer to play with him next season are minors, they have
seven years, so any contact that the respondent wanted to establish with the
stated purpose should address their legal representatives, in this case the
parents who hold parental authority (article 162 of the Civil Code).

Thus, to the extent that we can affirm that the treatment that the respondent
made of the data of underage players was lawful, since it was founded
in the prevalence of your legitimate interest in making them an offer to play for your club
against the interests, fundamental rights and freedoms of these minors, must
conclude that the satisfaction of their interest makes it equally necessary to treat
the data of the legal representatives (in this particular case, of the mothers) of the
underage players. The consequence is, therefore, that the legal basis of the
treatment of the data of minors is, in this case, also and
necessarily, the basis of legality of the treatment of the data of the mothers,
the claimants, due to their status as legal representatives of their children.

3. As stated in the preceding paragraphs, the respondent invokes as
basis of legality of the treatment carried out the prevalence of the legitimate interest that
holds against the interests, fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested parties,
minors and their mothers, in application of article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, a precept that
provides that the treatment “necessary for the satisfaction of interests
legitimate pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/31

over said interests do not prevail the interests or the rights and freedoms
fundamental data of the interested party that require the protection of personal data, in
particularly when the interested party is a child.

In relation to this cause of legality, the judgment of the Court must be brought up
of Justice of the European Union (STJUE) of 11/24/2011 (joined cases C-
468/10 and C-469/10) that recognized the direct effect of article 7.f) of the Directive
95/46 repealed by the RGPD. The reason is that, being that provision of the Directive,
essentially identical to article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, its considerations are fully
applicable to the matter at hand.

The STJUE indicated (section 38) that article 7.f) established two requirements
cumulative for a processing of personal data to be lawful: on the one hand,
that the treatment was necessary for the satisfaction of a legitimate interest
pursued by the data controller or by the third party or third parties to whom
communicate the data, and, on the other, that the rights and
fundamental freedoms of the interested party.

On the weighting that must be done between the legitimate interest of the person in charge and the
fundamental rights, freedoms or interests of the owner of the data, the STJUE
indicates that it will depend, in principle, on the specific circumstances of the particular case
in question, in which framework the person or institution that carries out the weighting
must take into account the importance of the rights conferred on the interested party by the
articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union
(heading 40).

Regarding the cause of legality of the treatment provided for in article 6.1.f) of the
RGPD, illustrative is recital 47 of the RGPD and Opinion 6/2014 prepared by
the Working Group of Article 29 (hereinafter, GT29) related to the “Concept of
Legitimate interest of the data controller under article 7 of
Directive 95/46/CE”, dated 04/09/2014, which offers some criteria for its
app.

Recital 47 of the RGPD says:

“The legitimate interest of a data controller, including that of a
responsible to which personal data may be communicated, or of a third party,
may constitute a legal basis for processing, provided that it is not
prevail the interests or the rights and freedoms of the interested party, taking into account
account the reasonable expectations of data subjects based on their relationship
with the person in charge. Such legitimate interest could be given, for example, when there is
a relevant and appropriate relationship between the data subject and the controller, such as
in situations in which the interested party is a client or is at the service of the
responsible. In any case, the existence of a legitimate interest would require
thorough evaluation, even if a stakeholder can accurately foresee
reasonable, at the time and in the context of the collection of personal data,
that processing may occur for that purpose. In particular, the interests and
fundamental rights of the interested party may prevail over the interests
of the person in charge of the treatment when proceeding to the treatment of the data
in circumstances in which the data subject does not reasonably expect

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/31

further treatment is carried out. Since it is up to the legislator
establish by law the legal basis for the processing of personal data by
part of the public authorities, this legal basis should not apply to the
treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their
functions. The treatment of personal data strictly necessary
for the prevention of fraud also constitutes a legitimate interest of the
responsible for the treatment in question. The processing of personal data
for direct marketing purposes may be considered made in the interest
legitimate." (emphasis ours)

In turn, according to the Opinion of WG29 6/2014, in order to be able to conclude that a certain
treatment is lawful on the basis of the prevalence of the legitimate interest of the
responsible party or third parties against the interests, fundamental rights or
freedoms of data subjects, the analysis must begin by examining whether the
legitimate interest invoked (i) is lawful, that is, if it is in accordance with national legislation and
of the European Union (E.U.) that is applicable; (ii) sufficiently specific, this
is, if it is articulated clearly enough to allow the proof of
weighing is carried out against the interests and rights
interests of the interested party and (iii) represents a real and current interest, not
speculative.

Regarding this first element to be examined, (i) the legality of the legitimate interest invoked, this
is, if the processing of data that the person in charge considers necessary to satisfy
your interest respects national and EU legislation, WG29 Opinion 6/2014
says that an interest can be considered legitimate “provided that the person responsible for the
treatment may pursue this interest in accordance with the laws relating to the
data protection and with the rest of the legislation”. According to the opinion of the GT29 only
If this first condition is met, it will be appropriate to carry out the
weighing or weighting between the interest invoked by the controller and the impact
that the treatment supposes on the interests and the fundamental rights and
freedoms of the interested parties.

On the other hand, the weighting or weighing judgment between the legitimate interest of the
responsible for the treatment of one side and that of the interests, fundamental rights
and freedoms of the holders of the data of another, must respect the principle of
proportionality. The Constitutional Court -SSTC 66/1995, of May 8, FJ 5;
55/1996, of March 28, FFJJ 6, 7, 8 and 9; 207/1996, of December 16, FJ 4 e), and
37/1998, of February 17, FJ 8- has considered that to check if a measure
restrictive of a fundamental right exceeds the judgment of proportionality, it will be necessary
verify that it meets these three requirements or conditions: if that measure is susceptible
to achieve the proposed objective (judgment of suitability); if, in addition, it is necessary, in
the sense that there is no other more moderate measure to achieve such
purpose with equal efficacy (judgment of necessity); and, finally, if it is
weighted or balanced, because more benefits or advantages are derived from it for the
general interest that harms other goods or values in conflict (judgment of
proportionality in the strict sense).

4. We examine whether, in light of the criteria set forth, in the case presented here and
attending the circumstances that concur in it, the treatment that the club claimed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/31

made of the data of minors and their mothers could be covered by the reason
of legality described in article 6.1.f) of the RGPD.

As a starting point, the legality of the interest of the person responsible for the
treatment: if the person in charge of the treatment, the club, could attend to your interest without
violate the data protection regulations and the rest of the legislation.

In line with the requirement that the interest that the defendant seeks to satisfy be lawful
It must be remembered that the claimants alleged that the respondent violated article 26
of the R.G. of the RFFM and affirmed that this provision “considers prohibited the contact
for recruitment with players from other clubs while they are
federated, if there is no express authorization from them.”

However, article 26 of Book IV of the RG of the RFFM establishes:

“No Club, either directly through a person united in some way
way to the same, or through an intermediary, may exercise actions of
recruitment of amateur players without the knowledge and express authorization
of the club with which they are registered, as long as the competition has not finished
of the last season of your license. The same prohibition extends to any
person whose affiliation is recorded in the federative organization affects the RFFM or
the RFEF.” (emphasis ours)

The provision refers to the recruitment of "amateur players". For the R.G. of the RFFM
(Book IV, article 1.1.) “Soccer players can be Professionals and non-Professionals or
fans.” And article 1.4. indicates that “Amateur soccer players are those or
those who are dedicated to the practice of football for mere sporting desire within the
discipline of a club, not receiving any remuneration from it, without prejudice to its
right to be compensated for the expenses that could be caused by travel,
stays, concentrations, maintenance, loss of working hours in your occupation
or other activities, both for holding training sessions or matches
official or friendly.

According to the transcribed definition and given that the minors, children of the claimants,
they were affiliated to the RFFM in the Prebenjamines category during the season
2019/2020 (we refer to the federative licenses of both that are described in
the Proven Facts of this resolution) it is evident that both had the condition
of amateur players.

Article 26 of Book IV of the R.G. of the RFFM prohibits a club from capturing players
fans "as long as the competition of the last season of their
license." However, once the competition of the last season of the
license, according to this precept there will be no prohibition for the collection of
players.

The RFFM has reported that the competition for the 2019/2020 season ended in
moment of the declaration of the state of alarm by the Government, which
occurred on 03/14/2020, date of publication and entry into force of the Royal Decree
463/2020, of March 14, declaring the state of alarm for the management
of the health crisis situation caused by Covid 19.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/31

To the question that was made to the RFFM about whether all the clubs and categories
finished the competition of the 2019/2020 season on the same date and, in case of
If not, on what dates did the claimed club and the club from the Colegio de los
minors, states that “The end date was the same for all categories
competitions, regardless of the date on which they have held the
last match."

The RFFM has provided a copy of the "Federative Circular No. 5-Season 2019/2020"
in which the agreements adopted by the Delegate Commission of the Assembly are recorded
General on 05/14/2020, in which it is established that, as a consequence of the
exceptional circumstances of force majeure arising from the coronavirus pandemic
COVID-19, it has been agreed: “1. Terminate in the state in which
were at the time of the declaration of the state of alarm by the
Government, with the existing classification on that date and computing for these purposes
all the matches played in each of them, with the consequences
qualifications that this entails. [...]”

Therefore, when the coordinator of the claimed club processed the data of the minors and
of their mothers through the phone calls he made to the claimants -the
06/17/2020- more than three months had passed since the competition of the
season 2019/2020 had ended, otherwise the only season contemplated
in the federative licenses of minors.

Consequently, contrary to what the representative of the complainants defends, the
claimed did not breach article 26 of Book IV of the R.G. of the RFFM. and to the extent
that the club complied with the federative regulations that regulate the practice of this sport and,
in particular, those that affect the interest that it seeks to satisfy, from that perspective,
their interest must be deemed lawful.

Continuing with the examination of the legality of the interest held by the claimed party, you can
affirm, in view of the information and documentation in the file,
that, aside from the question as to whether the data processing carried out
violated the principle of legality - an issue on which this file deals
sanctioning- the treatments that the defendant made with the purpose of satisfying his
interest complied with the principles of data minimization (article 5.1.c, RGPD) and of
limitation of the purpose (article 5.1.b, RGPD) and in addition the claimed had
adequate technical and organizational measures have been implemented in order to be in
to comply with the obligations imposed by the RGPD. The documentation provided
shows that he had a Record of Processing Activities (RAT) from the
06/14/2019, before the events caused by this
sanctioning file, which was updated on 11/23/2019 and has
appointed a DPO.

The treatment that the respondent made, both of data of minors and of
the claimants, complied with the principle of minimization since it dealt with those
data that were strictly necessary to be able to attend to the interest pursued.

In that sense, and with regard to the claimants, it dealt exclusively
the data that were essential to contact them: mobile number and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/31

Name. Regarding the data of minors, the conclusion is identical. The data
treated were the name and surnames, essential to identify the players to
to whom your offer was addressed; the club in which they had played, their way of playing and the
name of your friends. This last information is also considered necessary in the
context of the purpose of the treatment: the recruitment of the players through a
offer for the minors to play for his club the following season that the
claimed makes reach their mothers in a telephone conversation. Serving
those circumstances, the reference to the characteristics of the game is also necessary,
because it seems logical that the offer of the claimed club is a consequence of the
sporting qualities that he appreciated in the players. As for the names of their
friends, the fact that the players are seven years old and that it is
relevant, because it influences the well-being that they could find in the club
claimed and in the tranquility of their parents, knowing that their
friends. We refer to the document provided by the representative of the claimants
in test phase called "Test number 3" which includes email
that College staff addressed to one of the claimants, confirming that the
incidence that had been communicated had been registered and in which the
incident form she filled out, describing the conversation
maintained with the coordinator of the claimed club and says among other things: "I
I comment that right now the main reason for playing football for XXXXX is to be
with his friends and tells me that they had spoken with C.C.C. (the mother of XXXXX) and that
they were going to call XXXXX's parents since they knew that the three of them were friends and that the
The idea was for the three of them to go together.”

It should also be added, regarding the processing of data relating to the form of play
that it cannot be ignored that whoever decides to participate as a federated player in a
sports competition accepts that, within the framework of the competition, between the teams
participants and in that sports community that de facto is created between them, whether
certain aspects of your privacy are known, such as that relating to the characteristics
of your game.

The treatment of data that the claimed person carried out to satisfy his interest - a
offer to the mothers of the two underage players for their children to play
at his club the following season - also respected the limitation principle of
purpose described in article 5.1.b, RGPD:

“The personal data will be: (...)
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to
article 89, paragraph 1, further processing of personal data for purposes
archive in the public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or
statistics will not be considered incompatible with the initial purposes ("limitation of
purpose")"

The respondent stated in his response to the evidence and in the informative brief prior to
the admission to processing of the claim, and even in its response to the requested access
by the claimants, who obtained the data of the minors from a source of access
public, through the information provided by the website of the federation and the
that appears on the back of the players' jersey.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/31

Given this statement, it is necessary to underline again that the fact that the data
of minors are accessible through the RFFM website or by
other ways during the development of the competition, for example, for the information that
appears on your sportswear, does not in any way constitute a legal basis for the
legality of the treatment that could subsequently be made of the data obtained through
through those means. It is not with the current regulations, the RGPD, and neither was it
during the validity of the LOPD as a result of the STJUE of 11/24/2011 that forced to make
an interpretation of its article 6.2 in accordance with Directive 95/46/EC.

In the current regulations, "all" processing of personal data necessarily has
be based on one of the six grounds of legality listed in article
6.1 of the RGPD, among which do not appear, as can be verified by reading it, the
called public access sources. For this reason, in the opening agreement of this
procedure it was noted that the so-called public access sources, which were made
reference to the repealed LOPD and its Development Regulations, approved by the Royal
Decree 1720/2007, they do not exist with the same character in the framework of the current regime
legal data protection and that the position of the AEPD on the matter was
clear: The Report of 10/03/2019, (Entry Record 045824/2019) said that “as of
of the entry into force of the RGPD, it is not possible to speak of a legal concept of “sources
accessible to the public” such as the one that existed in the previous Organic Law 15/1993 (...) The
GDPR only talks about public access sources when regulating the right to information
if the data has not been collected from the interested party”.

The RFFM has a web page in which the data of those who
participate in the competitions. Exceeds the object of this procedure the analysis of
the aforementioned website. However, we can affirm that the RFFM fulfills a
mission of public interest in the promotion of this sport in the field of
Community of Madrid and that Law 15/1994 of Sport of the Community of Madrid
confers, among other functions, (article 36 d) “Organize and supervise competitions
officials of its territorial scope. The treatment that the RFFM makes of the data
personal information of its affiliates - to the extent that the processing in question is
purpose of fulfilling the functions entrusted to it by Law 15/1994 of the
CAM- has its legal basis in section e) of article 6.1 of the RGPD that refers
to the “necessary treatment for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the person responsible for the
treatment".

The RFFM has declared that the legal basis that legitimizes the publication on its page
website of the lists with the personal data of the players who are members of the
templates of the federated clubs is the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest, article 8.2 LOPDGDD, which is based on the fact that Law 15/1994 of the CAM
“provides as functions of the federations the organization of competitions
official sports, as well as the promotion, in general, of its modality or
sports modalities throughout the territory of the Community of Madrid, article 36,
sections a) and b). Understanding that these functions are tasks that correspond or
It is up to the federation to perform by derivation of a competition attributed by a
norm with the force of law.”

Regarding the purpose of this treatment, the RFFM highlights that it was carried out and
performs “to comply with the functions of organizing competitions of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/31

a team sport and the promotion of said sport, making visible the
participating components of the respective templates and transferring, as a reason
of a sport from its lower categories to the professionals, which
who wants to can practice it with all the federative guarantees, that is,
officially." And he adds referring to the clubs that "being the website of the RFFM, in
this section, of free access, do not require data to be provided, but rather
can access the web and treat them according to the purpose for which they have been
published.” (emphasis ours)

The respondent respected the principle of limitation of the purpose in the subsequent treatment
that he made of the data of the minors (their names and surnames), which he obtained from the
cited website.

As has been argued, the interest that the respondent sought to satisfy through the
treatment carried out was lawful (i). We can also affirm that it was (ii)
“sufficiently specific”, since it could be specified in the recruitment of players, which
that implies being able to communicate to the player the offer to play in his previous club
carrying out a test, and being the players in this particular case minors of
age the offer should be communicated to their legal representatives. The interest pursued
by the claimed party, thus defined, allows the weighing test to be carried out
Contrasting it with the interests and fundamental rights of the interested parties.
And, finally, it seems evident that the interest pursued by the respondent was (iii) "real"
and not speculative.

At the same time, the treatment carried out by the claimed club complies with the three
requirements that according to the doctrine of the T.C. guarantee that the restriction of a right
It is fundamental that it complies with the principle of proportionality: judgment of suitability; judgment of
necessity and judgment of proportionality in the strict sense.

The treatment of the personal data of the claimants and their children was ideal
for the purpose pursued as evidenced by the fact that the respondent managed to contact
with the mothers of the players and communicate their offer for the following season.

Likewise, the processing of data that the respondent carried out to satisfy the interest
that he held was "necessary", since there were no other less invasive routes than
allow the club to contact the mothers of minors and send them their
offer. In this regard, these statements by the respondent are illuminating:

“We did not find in our assessment any alternative method that allows us to
communicate our interest and purpose to the interested parties and that likewise allows us to
comply with our legal obligations to achieve the objectives pursued and
with the least impact for stakeholders. The express authorization of the interested parties
for the processing of your information and the establishment of contact is not
we find viable until contact has been established.”

The requirement of the “necessity” of the treatment, which is mentioned at the beginning of the wording
of article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, is an integral element of the cause of legality described
in that precept. You can cite the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the Union
Court (STJUE) of 05/04/2017, case C-13/16 (ECLI: EU:C:2017:336) that resolves
the preliminary ruling raised by the referring court on the concept of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/31

“need” contained in article 7.f) of Directive 95/46/EEC, a very similar precept
to the current article 6.1.f) of the RGPD:

The CJEU says that “[…] the system of Directive 95/46 and the wording of its article
7 it follows that letter f) of this same article does not establish, in itself, the obligation
that the data processing is carried out (for example, the communication to a third party
of data necessary for the satisfaction of a legitimate interest pursued by it),
but it confers the power to carry out that treatment.” (paragraph 26)

It adds that “[...] Article 7, letter f), of Directive 95/46 sets three requirements
cumulative for the processing of personal data to be lawful: first, that the
responsible for the treatment or the third party or third parties to whom the data is communicated
pursue a legitimate interest; second, that the treatment is necessary for the
satisfaction of that legitimate interest and, third, that the rights and
fundamental freedoms of the interested party in the protection of data. (paragraph 28)

And that “[...] Regarding the requirement that data processing is necessary,
It should be recalled that the exceptions and restrictions to the principle of protection of
personal data must be established without exceeding the limits of what
strictly necessary (judgments of November 9, 2010, Volker and Markus
Schecke and Eifert, C 92/09 and C 93/09, EU:C:2010:662, paragraph 86; from November 7
of 2013, IPI, C 473/12, EU:C:2013:715, section 39, and of December 11, 2014,
Ryneš, C 212/13, EU:C:2014:2428, paragraph 28). It should be noted in this regard
that, as indicated by the referring court, the exclusive communication of the name
and the surname of the person causing the damage does not allow him to be identified with sufficient precision
as to be able to sue him. Thus, for this purpose it is necessary to obtain
also your address and identification number or at least one of these two data.”
(emphasis ours)

Thus, we must conclude that the interest of the respondent in processing the data of the
minors and the claimants in order to contact them to
communicate an offer for their minor children to play in the club was an interest
lawful.
 
Focused on the judgment of proportionality in the strict sense or, according to the expression
used in the Opinion of the WG29, "balancing test", it is necessary to analyze the
impact that the treatment has had on the fundamental rights and freedoms of
interested parties and assess whether the treatment in question has been balanced, as it derives
of it more benefits or advantages for the general interest than damages for other goods
or values, in this case for the data protection right of the claimants and
of their minor children; rights that have suffered as a result of the treatment
a restriction.

In this regard, it can be seen that the impact that the treatment has had on the
interests, fundamental rights and freedoms of minors and their mothers has
been minimal and no adverse consequences have been derived for them. In addition, you must
assess that there was a reasonable expectation that this treatment could
occur. Those who decide to join the RFFM and participate as members in the
competitions that she organizes are aware that their personal data
will be subject to certain treatments both by the RFFM, in compliance with the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/31

functions entrusted to him by Law 15/1994 of the CAM, as well as by the club with which
are linked and cannot ignore that article 26 of the R.G. of the RFFM admits
that clubs can recruit players when certain
conditions, so that it is possible that your data will be processed for that purpose. Y,
in this case, being the interested parties minors whose parents authorized
expressly that their children request the federative license, we must understand that
parents also had a reasonable expectation that a treatment with the
purpose pursued by the claimant came to pass.

In this line of argument it is added that the document of the federative license of the
minors, in which the authorizations of their respective parents are recorded, includes the
foot of the document an informative legend that, among other things, says the following:

“[...] regarding the data that identifies you as a federated member, you are informed that
will be treated to carry out the requested order. We will treat your image and/
or your voice based on the legitimate interest of the Federation, as provided by the
Article 36 of Law 15/1994, of December 28, on Community Sport
from Madrid. [...]”.

On the other hand, article 1.3 of Book I of the R.G. of the RFFM -which is still citing the
LOPD- establishes that:

 “For the purposes provided for in article 6 of Organic Law 15/1999, of 13
December Protection of Personal Data, all persons [...]
to those who, due to their sports activity, are issued a federative license by
this, they give their consent for their personal data to be
incorporated into the file whose owner is the Real Madrid Football Federation
which is registered in the General Registry of Data Protection.
Likewise, they authorize their data to be made public in those
assumptions in which it is necessary for the fulfillment of the functions of the
Royal Football Federation of Madrid. Being informed that they can exercise
your right of access, rectification and cancellation.”

The practical absence of a negative impact on the interested parties derived from the
treatment of your data by the claimed party, an impact that we estimate remains
reduced to the restriction suffered by their fundamental right to data protection, there is
to put it in relation to the benefit derived for society from the
treatments that have the same purpose as that carried out by the claimed party in the
framework of a sports activity whose promotion and organization is entrusted
the RFFM by Law 15/1994 of the CAM, thereby fulfilling purposes of general interest.
In this weighting, due to their decisive nature, elements such as
the reasonable expectation that processing for this purpose would take place
have those who decide to join the RFFM or the measures that the claimed club had
implemented to strictly comply with the obligations imposed by the RGPD. fits
add in relation to minors, whose fundamental right to protection
of data has been limited, that those who have demonstrated the desire - in this case, with
the consent of their parents - to play soccer as federated athletes and participate
in a sports competition they will be pleased that their sports qualities are seen
positively valued by other teams.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/31

Finally, an important precision must be made about the scope of the treatment
of data made by the claimed party whose legality is based on article 6.1.f) of the
GDPR. The respondent has made these statements in the course of the procedure:
  
“In compliance with our obligations under the RGPD and LOPDGDD
we have established an informative clause that must be signed by all the players or
in the case of minors, their parents or legal guardians when tests or
They become part of our team.”

“The express authorization of the interested parties for the processing of their information and
establishment of contact we do not find viable until it has been
contact established."

In the copy of the RAT of the club that you have provided us, it is included among the activities of
treatment carried out by the so-called "Prospecting of players". Regard
to this activity is stated in point 6, “Description of the treatment”, “Persons
interested in passing the tests to belong to the club” and in point 4, “Legitimacy of the
treatment” is indicated: “Basis of legality. The treatment is based on the consent of the
affected."

Thus, it must be concluded that the data processing for which the claimed
has invoked as legal basis of legality the prevalence of its legitimate interest, article
6.1.f) RGPD, it will be only that which is necessary to contact the
players, in this case, being minors, with their legal representatives, in particular
their mothers, to make an offer for the following season, but that, the
data processing carried out as a result of the recipients of the offer accepting
submit to a test at the club will require that you previously collect the
consent of the interested parties, in such a way that the legal basis of the treatment
carried out for this purpose - the performance of the tests prior to the
consolidation of the offer- it will no longer be article 6.1.f) of the RGPD but article 6.1.a)
GDPR.

Finally, it is reported that the interested parties may object to their data being
data are subject to treatment based on the provisions of article 6.1.f)
RGPD, in the terms established in article 21.1 of the RGPD. Also, they can
request the deletion of your personal data when any of the
circumstances collected in 17 of the RGPD among which the precept mentions the
following: “a) the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes
for those that were collected or otherwise treated;” and “c) the interested party opposes
to processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and no other grounds prevail
legitimate for the treatment, or the interested party opposes the treatment in accordance with the
article 21, paragraph 2;”.

In view of the foregoing, it is obligatory to conclude that the treatment that the club
claimed made of the personal data of claimants 1 and 2 and those of their children
minors in order to contact them to offer them that their children
play for his club the following season, after undergoing a test, he respected the
principle of legality, the legal basis of the treatment being the circumstance described in the
letter f) of article 6.1. of the GDPR. Thus, not existing in the data processing

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/31

indications of infraction of the principle of legality have been made, the file of the
penalty procedure.

Therefore, according to the facts that have been proven and the legislation
applicable,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: AGREE TO FILE the sanctioning procedure PS/00063/2021
open to CLUB DEPORTIVO SAN ROQUE E.F.F., with CIF G80588098, at no.
evidence of infringement of article 6.1. of the GDPR.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to C.D SAN ROQUE E.F.F., with NIF
G80588098.

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-100322

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

