 

 

 

 
Athens, 07-05-2020
 

Prot. no.: G/EX/3105/07-05-2020

 

 

    

 

 

PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 
FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 

A P O F A S H 9/2020
 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invitation of its President, to a regular meeting via teleconference on 07-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

04-2020 following the meetings of 25.02.2020, 03.03.2020 and 10.03.2020
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at its headquarters, in order to examine the matter described in its history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present. The President, Konstantinos Menudakos, and the regular members were present
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Pyridon Vlachopoulos, Konstantinos Lamprinoudakis, Charalambos Anthopoulos,
 

 

 

 

 

 

as rapporteur and Eleni Martsoukou, also as rapporteur. the meeting
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the experts also attended, by order of the President, without the right to vote
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

scientists Fotini Karvela, auditor, Konstantinos Limniotis,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IT controller, Euphrosyne Yugle, IT controller and Eumorfia-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Iosifina Tsakiridou, legal auditor, as assistant rapporteurs, as well as Irini
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Papageorgopoulou, employee of the Department of Administrative Affairs, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

secretary.
  

 

The Authority took into account the following:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 in accordance with article 40 par. 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Data Protection – hereinafter, GDPR), the Member States, the supervisory authorities, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

European Data Protection Board (hereinafter, EDPB) and the Commission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

encourage the development of codes of conduct that aim to contribute
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the correct application of the GDPR, taking into account their special characteristics
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

various areas of processing and the special needs of the very young, the little ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and medium enterprises. in par. 2 of the same article it is stated that associations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
 

and other bodies representing categories of controllers or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processors may draw up codes of conduct or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

modify or extend existing codes of conduct, in order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

determine the application of the GDPR, as regards: a) the legitimate and with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing transparency, b) the legal interests pursued by those in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing in specific contexts, c) the collection of personnel data
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, d) the pseudonymization of personal data, e) the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informing the public and data subjects, f) the exercise of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights of data subjects, g) information and protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the children and how to obtain the consent of the parent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

care of the child, h) the measures and procedures referred to in articles 24
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 25 and the measures to ensure the security of the processing that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refers to article 32, i) the notification of personal data breaches
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character to the supervisory authorities and the notification of said violations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data to the data subjects, j) the transmission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data to third countries or international organizations, or k)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

out-of-court procedures and other dispute resolution procedures for resolution
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of disputes between controllers and data subjects regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the processing, without prejudice to the rights of the subjects thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data pursuant to articles 77 and 79 of the GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 in accordance with article 40 par. 5 of the GDPR, associations and other bodies that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

represent categories of controllers or processors
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and intend to draw up a code of conduct or amend or to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extend an existing code, submit the draft code to the supervisory authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which are competent in accordance with article 55. The supervisory authority gives an opinion on the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compliance of the draft code, amendment or extension with the GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and approve the said draft code, amendment or extension, if it considers that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provides sufficient appropriate guarantees. When the draft code or amendment or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extension is approved in accordance with the above and when the relevant code
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of ethics does not relate to processing activities in more than one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Member States, the supervisory authority registers and publishes the code (see Article 40
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 6 of the GDPR). As long as the code is related to processing activities in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more than one member state, the procedures are followed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

are described in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of the same article.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Furthermore, as mentioned in par. 3 of the same article, beyond their compliance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by controllers or processors subject to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR, the codes of conduct approved under paragraph 5 thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article and have general validity within the Union (based on paragraph 9 of the same
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article) can also be observed by data controllers or executors
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the processing not subject to the GDPR, in order to provide the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate safeguards in the context of personnel data transfers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character in third countries or international organizations, according to the conditions that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referred to in article 46 paragraph 2 letter e).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It is pointed out that the observance of an approved code of ethics may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be used as evidence of compliance with its requirements
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph 1 of the article. 32 regarding the security of processing (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 32, par. 3), while further compliance with approved codes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ethics by controllers or processors
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is duly taken into account when assessing the impact of processing operations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performed by said controllers or processors, in particular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for data protection impact assessment purposes (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 35, par. 8). Besides, according to article 83 par. 2, when making a decision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the imposition of an administrative fine, as well as regarding its amount
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrative fine for each individual case, are duly taken into account,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

among others, the observance of approved codes of conduct.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority, after listening to them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteurs and the assistant rapporteurs, who subsequently left, and
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after thorough discussion,
  

 

 

 

 

 

SEVENTH E ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. according to article 9 of Law 4624/2019, which aims – among other things
 

   

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- the adoption of measures to implement the GDPR, the supervision of their implementation
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions of the GDPR in the Greek Territory is exercised by the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

Personal Data Protection (hereinafter, Authority).
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. in accordance with article 40 par. 4 of the GDPR, the code of ethics contains
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mechanisms that allow the body referred to in article 41 par. 1 to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

carries out the mandatory monitoring of compliance with the provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the controllers or processors who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

have undertaken to implement it, subject to the duties and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

powers of the supervisory authorities that are competent according to article 55
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or 56.
 
   

 

3. Article 41 paragraph 1 of the GDPR states that, subject to the duties
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the powers of the competent supervisory authority in accordance with articles 57
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 58, the monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct under it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 40 can be conducted by an organization (hereinafter, the monitoring organization)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possessing the appropriate level of expertise in relation to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

object of the code and is accredited for this purpose by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

competent supervisory authority.
  

 

 

 

4. Article 41, in its entirety, does not apply to the processing carried out
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by public authorities and public bodies1 (see par. 6 thereof). However, in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases of codes of conduct for controller compliance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or processors who are not public authorities or public
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bodies, the existence of the aforementioned monitoring body – which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it must be accredited for this purpose by the competent supervisory authority - it is
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mandatory (see in this regard the guidelines 1/2019 of the EP EP, paragraph
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27).
  

 

5. The general requirements to be met for body accreditation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

monitoring are described in paragraph 2 of article 41 of the GDPR.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. in accordance with article 41 par. 3 of the GDPR, the competent supervisory authority submits
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the plans for the accreditation requirements of the monitoring body in the EP
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with the coherence mechanism referred to in Article 63 thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                            
1 according to article 4 par. a' of Law 4624/2019, as ""public body" means the public
 
 
authorities, the independent and regulatory administrative authorities, the legal entities under public law, the
 
local self-government organizations of the first and second degree and the legal entities and the
 
their enterprises, state or public enterprises and organizations, private legal entities
 
of law that belong to the state or are subsidized by at least 50% of the annual budget
 
them or their management is defined by it.
 

 
   

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 



FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

The Authority decides the definition of requirements for the accreditation of institutions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

monitoring, as defined in article 41 of the GDPR, and who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relate to a code of conduct for which the Authority is competent in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 55 of the GDPR. These accreditation requirements, which are based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

guidelines 1/2019 of the EP EP,. they do not concern, in the first place, the case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bodies monitoring codes of ethics of the article. 40 par. 3 of the GDPR, n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which has been excluded from the above guidelines and will be examined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

especially in other EC guidelines.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

These accreditation requirements are submitted to the ED in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the coherence mechanism provided for in article 63 of the GDPR and will
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be made public by the Authority after the completion of said procedure.
  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The president
 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Constantinos Menoudakos
 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

 

5
 

