   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

 

To:  Crown Glazing Ltd 
 

Of:    Unit 7 Navigation Business Village, Navigation Way, Preston, 

Lancashire, PR2 2YP 

 

1. 

2. 

 

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to 
issue Crown Glazing Ltd (“CGL”) with a monetary penalty under section 
55A of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The penalty is in relation 
to a serious contravention of regulation 21 of the Privacy and Electronic 

Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 (“PECR”). 
 
This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision. 

         Legal framework 
 

CGL, whose registered office is given above (Companies House 
Registration Number: 11768116) is the organisation stated in this 
notice to have used a public electronic communications service for the 
purpose of making unsolicited calls for the purposes of direct marketing 

contrary to regulation 21 of PECR.  
 
Regulation 21 applies to the making of unsolicited calls for direct 

marketing purposes. It means that if a company wants to make calls 
promoting a product or service to an individual who has a telephone 

1 

3. 

4. 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

number which is registered with the Telephone Preference Service Ltd 
(“TPS”), then that individual must have notified the company that they 

do not object to receiving such calls from it.  
 
Regulation 21 paragraph (1) of PECR provides that: 
 

“(1) A person shall neither use, nor instigate the use of, a public 
electronic communications service for the purposes of making 
unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes where- 

(a) 

 
(b) 

the called line is that of a subscriber who has previously 
notified the caller that such calls should not for the time being 

be made on that line; or 

the number allocated to a subscriber in respect of the called 
line is one listed in the register kept under regulation 26.” 

 

Regulation 21 paragraphs (2), (3), (4) and (5) provide that: 

5. 

 

6. 
  

      “(2)   A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention 

   of paragraph (1). 

 

 

(3)   A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 

where the number allocated to the called line has been listed on the 
register for less than 28 days preceding that on which the call is 
made. 

 
(4)  Where a subscriber who has caused a number allocated to a line of 
his to be listed in the register kept under regulation 26 has notified 

a caller that he does not, for the time being, object to such calls 
being made on that line by that caller, such calls may be made by 

2 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

that caller on that line, notwithstanding that the number allocated 
to that line is listed in the said register. 

 
        (5) Where a subscriber has given a caller notification pursuant to 

paragraph (4) in relation to a line of his— 

 

 
7. 

8. 

 
9. 

 

(a) the subscriber shall be free to withdraw that notification at 
any time, and 
(b) where such notification is withdrawn, the caller shall not 

make such calls on that line.” 

Under regulation 26 of PECR, the Commissioner is required to maintain 

a register of numbers allocated to subscribers who have notified them 
that they do not wish, for the time being, to receive unsolicited calls for 
direct marketing purposes on those lines. The TPS is a limited company 
which operates the register on the Commissioner’s behalf. Businesses 

who wish to carry out direct marketing by telephone can subscribe to 
the TPS for a fee and receive from them monthly a list of numbers on 
that register. 

 
Section 122(5) of the DPA18 defines direct marketing as “the 
communication (by whatever means) of advertising or marketing 

material which is directed to particular individuals”. This definition also 
applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) PECR & Schedule 
19 paragraphs 430 & 432(6) DPA18). 

“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 
 

3 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
10.  A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services”. 
 

11.  Section 55A of the DPA (as applied to PECR cases by Schedule 1 to 

PECR, as variously amended) states:  

 

“(1)  The Commissioner may serve a person with a monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is satisfied that –  

(a) there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 
Directive) Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This subsection applies if the contravention was deliberate. 
(3)  This subsection applies if the person – 

(a) 

knew or ought to have known that there was a risk that 

(b) 

the contravention would occur, but 
failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the 
contravention. 

 

12.  The Commissioner has issued statutory guidance under section 55C (1) 

of the DPA about the issuing of monetary penalties that has been 

published on the ICO’s website. The Data Protection (Monetary 
Penalties) (Maximum Penalty and Notices) Regulations 2010 prescribe 
that the amount of any penalty determined by the Commissioner must 
not exceed £500,000.  

 

13.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 

privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 

subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 

 

4 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 
rights. 

 

14.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 

 
        Background to the case 

 
15.  CGL first came to the attention of the Commissioner in 2021 after 37 

 

complaints were received in relation to the energy and home 

improvements sector. 
 

16.  According to some of the complaints received about CGL, their calls 

were advertising double-glazing or a free energy test. One of the 

complainants stated the caller was working on behalf of the 
government to improve energy savings. When the complainant 
questioned the call by explaining their number was registered with the 
TPS, the caller said the individual had opted in. 
 

17.  On 24 August 2021, the Commissioner issued a third party information 

notice to 

 (

) to obtain 

subscriber information. 
reseller called 
reseller called 
 

 stated the numbers were allocated to a 

 which had assigned the numbers to another 

 

). 

18.  On 28 September and 12 November 2021, the Commissioner issued 

third party information notices to 
 who stated the numbers were 
allocated to CGL. The response also included call detail records (CDRs) 
for the CLIs allocated to CGL. 
 

 

5 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
19.  The CDRs were screened against the TPS register and it was 

established that between 4 January 2021 and 11 November 2021, 

503,445 connected calls were made to individuals registered with the 
TPS. 

 

20.  On 13 January 2022, the Commissioner sent an initial investigation 

letter and a spreadsheet of complaints to CGL. The letter outlined the 
Commissioner's powers and requested information to help ascertain 
CGL's compliance with PECR. 
 

21.  On 27 January 2022, the Commissioner received a response from CGL 

(via its legal representative) that explained the requested information 
was being collated. CGL requested evidence that the numbers listed in 
the complaint spreadsheet were registered with the TPS. The 
Commissioner responded to CGL on the same day providing a 
spreadsheet of TPS registration dates for each complainant. 
 

22.  On 24 February 2022, CGL responded to the Commissioner and 

provided various documents and supporting evidence, including a 
response to the Commissioner's questions about CGL’s compliance with 

PECR. In the response, CGL explained that data was purchased from a 
list broker called 
supporting evidence to show how data was collected or what fair 

. CGL did not provide any 

processing information was provided to individuals. However, a due 
diligence document supplied in the response suggested that the data 
was obtained from lifestyle surveys, comparison websites and product 
registration. 
 

23.  CGL stated that none of the complainants’ information was purchased 

from their list broker. Instead, the data had been obtained by door to 

 

6 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

door canvassing where individuals had given permission to be 
contacted. The evidence CGL provided to demonstrate this was a 

spreadsheet of names, numbers and postcodes of customers who had 
agreed to services. This information was cross-referenced with the 
complainant’s names, numbers and postcodes, but the records did not 
match.  

 

24.  One of the documents provided by CGL was their door canvassing 

process, which provided an insight into how the business operated. 

This included details of automatic screening against TPS before data 
was added to their dialler system for an agent to call. Any telephone 
numbers registered with the TPS were automatically removed by the 

dialler. 
 

25.  CGL advised that data purchased from the list broker was screened 

prior to purchase. This was evidenced in a due diligence document that 

CGL provided which stated, “data supplied for outbound calling is 
screened against the TPS on output.” In addition, CGL provided a copy 
of an email dated 16 January 2022 with their service provider showing 

a request to upgrade their dialler system to include TPS screening. This 
exchange showed the service provider responding to the request 
stating that CGL’s account had been enabled with outbound TPS 

screening as of 12:05 on 17 January 2022. This appears to have been 
implemented because of the Commissioner's investigation and had not 
been in place at the time of the contravention. 

 
26. 

 

In relation to suppression, CGL stated that they had a built-in system 
on the dialler where a call agent could block a number if requested. 

Suppression requests were also received by the list broker who 
informed CGL by email if a suppression request had been made. Once 

7 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

added, the numbers were blocked even if the customer ‘opts in’ on a 
separate occasion. 
 

27.  CGL concluded by explaining the procedures they have implemented 

since the Commissioner commenced its investigation, which had 
included obtaining written confirmation from customers who had 
provided their information to a door to door canvasser; ringing 
customers who had provided their information within one or two 

weeks; explaining to customers that they had ‘opted in’ to telephone 
calls after supplying their information, and analysing complaint trends. 
CGL further explained that if they were unable to contact a customer 

after four weeks, then they would input the data into their dialler which 
would screen the data against the TPS and remove registered 
numbers. 
 

28.  On 14 March 2022, the Commissioner contacted CGL to enquire about 

the supporting evidence and to ascertain whether the records had been 
sent in error, as they did not match with the complainants. 
 

29.  CGL telephoned the Commissioner on 21 March 2022 and stated that 
the records provided were of customers who had agreed to services in 
the same areas as the complainants. Following this discussion, the 

Commissioner sent further questions about CGL’s processes and 
whether they could provide any supporting evidence to show that 
individuals agreed to be called by the organisation. 
 

30.  On 13 April 2022, CGL provided a response to the Commissioner's 

questions along with a copy of appointment visits made by their 
canvassing team and examples of four leaflets. CGL explained that the 
canvassing team did not previously obtain any supporting evidence to 

 

8 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

show that individuals agreed to be contacted but this has now been 
rectified. 
 

31.  CGL confirmed the complainants were contacted by the appointment 

team rather than being inputted onto the dialler for a call agent to call. 
CGL did not provide details of which service provider is used for the 
appointment team stating: “there is only one dialler and that is 
, 
however the appointment contacts the consumers manually.” Several 

of the policies were created within the last three months, which 
suggested the documents were drafted at the start of the ICO’s 
investigation. CGL stated that staff are trained when they first start 

and are monitored for at least a month with full training every six 
months. 
 

32.  On 14 April 2022, the Commissioner contacted CGL to ask for details of 

the service provider they were using for the appointment calls and to 
request copies of call detail records. On 21 April 2022, CGL sent an 

email to explain that telephony services were supplied by 

 

 which were in the process of liquidating. As such, the 

CSP was unable to provide the information requested. 
 

33.  On 18 May 2022, the Commissioner sent an end of investigation letter 

to CGL which stated the Commissioner would now consider whether 
regulatory action was appropriate. The correspondence asked CGL to 
provide evidence of any processes or procedures they may not have 
supplied as part of the investigation. 
 

34.  On 25 May 2022, the Commissioner received a telephone call from CGL 

asking for guidance; specifically what type of information should be 
provided in response to the end of investigation letter. The 

 

9 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

Commissioner explained that it was an opportunity for the organisation 
to provide any updated procedures or policies that may have been 

implemented following the investigation. CGL noted that the deadline 
to provide the information had been missed but indicated they would 
try to provide something in writing by 27 May 2022. However, no 
response was received. 
 

35.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the 503,445 calls were all made for 

the purposes of direct marketing as defined by section 122(5) DPA18.   

 
36.  The Commissioner has made the above findings of fact on the 

balance of probabilities. 

 
37.  The Commissioner has considered whether those facts constitute a 

contravention of regulation 21 of PECR by CGL and, if so, whether the 
conditions of section 55A DPA are satisfied.  

 

        The contravention 
 
38.  The Commissioner finds that CGL contravened regulation 21 of PECR. 

 

39.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 

 

40.  Between 4 January 2021 and 11 November 2021, CGL used a public 

telecommunications service for the purposes of making 503,445 
unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes to subscribers where the 
number allocated to the subscriber in respect of the called line was a 

number listed on the register of numbers kept by the Commissioner in 
accordance with regulation 26, contrary to regulation 21(1)(b) of PECR. 
This resulted in 37 complaints being made to the TPS and the 

Commissioner. 

 

10 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

41.  The Commissioner is also satisfied for the purposes of regulation 21 

that these 503,445 unsolicited direct marketing calls were made to 
subscribers who had registered with the TPS at least 28 days prior to 
receiving the calls, and who for the purposes of regulation 21(4) had 
not notified CGL that they did not object to receiving such calls. 

 
42.  For such notification to be valid under regulation 21(4), the individual 

must have taken a clear and positive action to override their TPS 

registration and indicate their willingness to receive marketing calls 
from the company. The notification should reflect the individual’s 
choice about whether or not they are willing to receive marketing calls. 

Therefore, where signing up to use a product or service is conditional 
upon receiving marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate 
how this constitutes a clear and positive notification of the individual’s 
willingness to receive such calls.  
 

43.  The notification must clearly indicate the individual’s willingness to 

receive marketing calls specifically. Companies cannot rely on 
individuals opting in to marketing communications generally, unless it 

is clear that this will include telephone calls.   
 

44.  Further, the notification must demonstrate the individual’s willingness 
to receive marketing calls from that company specifically. Notifications 

will not be valid for the purposes of regulation 21(4) if individuals are 
asked to agree to receive marketing calls from “similar organisations”, 
“partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar generic descriptions.  

 
45.  The Commissioner has considered the lack of evidence of any 

notifications obtained by CGL and is concerned that 503,445 calls were 

made to subscribers who had registered with the TPS at least 28 days 

 

11 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

prior to receiving the calls, and who in each case for the purposes of 
regulation 21(4) had not notified CGL that they did not object to 

receiving such calls. 

 
46.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the conditions 

under section 55A DPA are met. 

 

     Seriousness of the contravention 
 

47.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the contravention identified 

above was serious. This is because there have been multiple breaches 
of regulation 21 by CGL arising from the organisation’s activities 

between 4 January 2021 and 11 November 2021, and this led to 
503,445 unsolicited direct marketing calls being made to subscribers 
who were registered with the TPS and who had not notified CGL that 
they were willing to receive such calls, and 37 complaints being made 

as a result.  
 

48.  CGL has failed to provide any evidence that the calls were made to 

subscribers who did not otherwise object to receiving those calls from 
CGL.  
 

49.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (a) from 

section 55A (1) DPA is met.  
 

     Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

 

50.  The Commissioner has considered whether the contravention identified 

above was deliberate. In the Commissioner’s view, this means that 

CGL's actions which constituted that contravention were deliberate 

 

12 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

actions (even if CGL did not actually intend thereby to contravene 
PECR). 

 

51.  Further and in the alternative, the Commissioner has gone on to 

consider whether the contravention identified above was negligent. 
This consideration comprises two elements: 

 

52.  The Commissioner does not consider that CGL deliberately set out to 

contravene PECR in this instance.  

 
53.  Firstly, he has considered whether CGL knew or ought reasonably to 

have known that there was a risk that this contravention would occur. 

He is satisfied that this condition is met, for the following reasons:  

 
54.  Prior to the Commissioner's investigation the TPS contacted CGL at 

their registered office to notify them of the complaints received and 
alerting them to compliance issues. CGL failed to engage with the TPS. 
 

55.  The Commissioner has also published detailed guidance for companies 
carrying out marketing explaining their legal requirements under PECR. 
This guidance explains the circumstances under which organisations 

are able to carry out marketing over the phone, by text, by email, by 
post or by fax. Specifically, it states that live calls must not be made to 
any subscriber registered with the TPS, unless the subscriber has 
specifically notified the company that they do not object to receiving 

such calls.  In case organisations remain unclear on their obligations, 
the ICO operates a telephone helpline. ICO communications about 
previous enforcement action where businesses have not complied with 

PECR are also readily available. 
 

 

13 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
56.  Where it is able to identify the organisation making the calls, it is 
standard practice of the TPS to contact that organisation on each 

occasion a complaint is made. It is reasonable to believe that CGL 
would have been sent a notification from the TPS for complaints being 
made in this case. That there were 27 complaints made to the TPS 
alone over the period of the contravention should have made CGL 

aware of the risk that such contraventions may occur and were indeed 
occurring.  

 

57. 

It is therefore reasonable to suppose that CGL should have been aware 
of its responsibilities in this area. 
 

58.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on to consider whether CGL 

failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the contravention. Again, he 
is satisfied that this condition is met.   
 

59.  The Commissioner’s direct marketing guidance makes clear that 

organisations acquiring marketing lists from a third party must 
undertake rigorous checks to satisfy themselves that the personal data 

was obtained fairly and lawfully, that their details would be passed 
along for direct marketing to the specifically named organisation in the 
case of live calls, and that they have the necessary notifications for the 

purposes of regulation 21(4). It is not acceptable to rely on assurances 
given by third party suppliers without undertaking proper due 
diligence.  

 

60.  Reasonable steps in these circumstances may also have included: 

 
a)  Ensuring that call data was screened against TPS and rescreened 

every 28 days. 

 

14 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

b)  Conducting regular checks of marketing lists to ensure that any TPS 

screening outsourced to a third party is working correctly. 

c)  Maintaining clear records of any notifications from individuals 

registered on TPS who do not object to marketing calls from the 
organisation. 

d)  Providing adequate staff training to ensure suppression requests are 

identified and acted upon. 

e)  Monitoring and sampling calls for quality control purposes and to 

ensure policies and processes are being adhered to; and 

f)  Performing regular reviews of marketing databases to ensure the 

data is fit for purpose and PECR compliant. 

 

61.  Given the volume of calls and complaints, it is clear that CGL failed to 

take those reasonable steps. 
 

62.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (b) from section 

55A (1) DPA is met. 

 
        The Commissioner’s decision to issue a monetary penalty 

 
63.  The  Commissioner  has  taken  into  account  the  following  aggravating 

feature of this case: 

 
a)  Some  of  the  complainants  indicated  that  CGL  provided  misleading 
information in relation to their identity by incorrectly suggesting that 
they were representing the government.    

 

64.  The Commissioner has not identified any mitigating features in this 

case. 

 

 

15 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
65.  For the reasons explained above, the Commissioner is satisfied that the 

conditions from section 55A (1) DPA have been met in this case. He is 

also satisfied that the procedural rights under section 55B have been 
complied with. 
 

66.  The latter has included the issuing of a Notice of Intent, in which the 

Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking. In reaching his final 
view, the Commissioner has taken into account the representations 
made by CGL on this matter. 

 

67.  The Commissioner is accordingly entitled to issue a monetary penalty 

in this case. 

 

68.  The Commissioner has considered whether, in the circumstances, he 

should exercise his discretion so as to issue a monetary penalty.  
 

69.  The Commissioner has considered the likely impact of a monetary 
penalty on CGL. In doing so, the Commissioner has given careful 
consideration to the representations made by CGL in response to the 

Notice of Intent. However, the Commissioner has decided that a 
penalty nevertheless remains the appropriate course of action in the 
circumstances of this case.  

 
70.  The Commissioner’s underlying objective in imposing a monetary 
penalty notice is to promote compliance with PECR. The making of 
unsolicited direct marketing calls is a matter of significant public 

concern. A monetary penalty in this case should act as a general 
encouragement towards compliance with the law, or at least as a 
deterrent against non-compliance, on the part of all persons running 

businesses currently engaging in these practices. This is an opportunity 
to reinforce the need for businesses to ensure that they are only 

 

16 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

71. 

telephoning consumers who are not registered with the TPS and/or 
specifically indicate that they do not object to receiving these calls. 
 
In making his decision, the Commissioner has also had regard to the 
factors set out in s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015; including: 
the nature and level of risks associated with non-compliance, including 

the risks to economic growth; the steps taken by the business to 
achieve compliance and reasons for its failure; the willingness and 
ability of the business to address non-compliance; the likely impact of 
the proposed intervention on the business, and the likely impact of the 

proposed intervention on the wider business community, both in terms 
of deterring non-compliance and economic benefits to legitimate 
businesses.  
 

72.  For these reasons, the Commissioner has decided to issue a monetary 

penalty in this case.  
 

The amount of the penalty 
 

73.  Taking into account all of the above, the Commissioner has decided 

that a penalty in the sum of £130,000 (one hundred and thirty 
thousand pounds) is reasonable and proportionate given the 
particular facts of the case and the underlying objective in imposing the 
penalty. 

 
Conclusion 
 

74.  The monetary penalty must be paid to the Commissioner’s office by 

BACS transfer or cheque by 20 June 2023 at the latest. The monetary 
penalty is not kept by the Commissioner but will be paid into the 

 

17 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

Consolidated Fund which is the Government’s general bank account at 
the Bank of England. 

75. 

 
If the Commissioner receives full payment of the monetary penalty by 
19 June 2023 the Commissioner will reduce the monetary penalty by 
20% to £104,000 (one hundred and four thousand pounds). 

However, you should be aware that the early payment discount is not 
available if you decide to exercise your right of appeal.  
 

76.  There is a right of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) 

against: 
 

(a) the imposition of the monetary penalty 

              and/or; 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified in the monetary penalty 
     notice. 

 

77.  Any notice of appeal should be received by the Tribunal within 28 days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice.  

78. 

 
Information about appeals is set out in Annex 1. 
 

79.  The Commissioner will not take action to enforce a monetary penalty 

unless: 
 

  the period specified within the notice within which a monetary 

penalty must be paid has expired and all or any of the monetary 
penalty has not been paid; 

  all relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice and any 

variation of it have either been decided or withdrawn; and 

 

18 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

  the period for appealing against the monetary penalty and any 

variation of it has expired. 

 

80. 

In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the monetary penalty is 
recoverable by Order of the County Court or the High Court. In 
Scotland, the monetary penalty can be enforced in the same manner as 

an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution 
issued by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland.  

 

Dated the 18th day of May 2023. 
 
Andy Curry 

Head of Investigations 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
Wycliffe House 
Water Lane 

Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9 5AF 

 

 

19 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX 1 
 

SECTION 55 A-E OF THE DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998  

 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

 

Section 55B(5) of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person 

1. 
upon whom a monetary penalty notice has been served a right of 
appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the ‘Tribunal’) 

against the notice. 
 
2. 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:- 

 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 

a) 
accordance with the law; or 
 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of 

b) 
discretion by the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised 
his discretion differently,  

 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
could have been made by the Commissioner. In any other case the 

Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 
3. 
Tribunal at the following address: 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the 

 
                 General Regulatory Chamber 
 

HM Courts & Tribunals Service 

 

                 PO Box 9300 
                 Leicester 

 

20 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

                 LE1 8DJ  
 

 
 
 
 

4. 
 

Telephone: 0203 936 8963 

Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

The notice of appeal should be sent so it is received by the 

a) 
Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the notice.  
 

b) 
If your notice of appeal is late the Tribunal will not admit it 
unless the Tribunal has extended the time for complying with this 
rule. 

 
The notice of appeal should state:- 

a) 

your name and address/name and address of your 

representative (if any); 
 
b)      an address where documents may be sent or delivered to 

you; 
 
c)      the name and address of the Information Commissioner; 

 
d) 
 
e) 

 
f) 
 

details of the decision to which the proceedings relate; 

the result that you are seeking; 

the grounds on which you rely; 

 

21 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

you must provide with the notice of appeal a copy of the 

g) 
monetary penalty notice or variation notice; 

 
if you have exceeded the time limit mentioned above the 
h) 
notice of appeal must include a request for an extension of time 
and the reason why the notice of appeal was not provided in 

time. 

 
5. 

Before deciding whether or not to appeal you may wish to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an appeal a party 
may conduct his case himself or may be represented by any person 
whom he may appoint for that purpose. 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier 

 
6. 
Tribunal (Information Rights) are contained in section 55B(5) of, and 
Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal Procedure 

(First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 2009 
(Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 

 

 

22 

