 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 5/2019 on the interplay between the ePrivacy 

Directive and the GDPR, in particular regarding the 
competence, tasks and powers of data protection 

authorities 

Adopted on 12 March 2019 

 

adopted 

 

1 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1 

2 

Summary of the facts ...................................................................................................................... 4 

Legal Context ................................................................................................................................... 5 

2.1 

2.2 

2.3 

Relevant provisions of the GDPR ............................................................................................. 5 

Relevant provisions of the Framework Directive ..................................................................... 6 

Relevant provisions of the ePrivacy Directive .......................................................................... 6 

3 

Scope of this opinion ....................................................................................................................... 8 

3.1  Matters outside the scope of the GDPR .................................................................................. 9 

3.2  Matters outside the scope of the ePrivacy Directive .............................................................. 9 

3.2.1 

3.2.2 

The general material scope of the ePrivacy Directive ..................................................... 9 

The extended material scope of articles 5(3) and 13 ePrivacy Directive ...................... 11 

3.3  Matters within the material scope of both the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR ............... 11 

4 

Interplay between the ePrivacy DirEctive and the GDPR .............................................................. 13 

4.1 

4.2 

4.3 

4.4 

“To particularise” .................................................................................................................. 13 

“To complement” .................................................................................................................. 14 

The meaning of article 95 GDPR ............................................................................................ 14 

Co-existence .......................................................................................................................... 15 

5  On the competence, tasks and powers of data protection authorities ........................................ 16 

5.1 

5.2 

5.3 

Enforcement of the GDPR ..................................................................................................... 17 

Enforcement of the ePrivacy Directive.................................................................................. 18 

Enforcement where GDPR and ePrivacy intersect ................................................................ 19 

5.3.1 
authorities? ................................................................................................................................... 19 

Question one: are certain processing operations “off limits” for data protection 

5.3.2 

Question two: Are national ePrivacy provisions “off limits”? ....................................... 21 

6  On the applicability of the cooperation and consistency mechanisms ........................................ 23 

7 

Conclusion ..................................................................................................................................... 24 

 

 

 

 

adopted 

 

2 

 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to article 63 and article 64(2) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing 
of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter 
“GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 
 
Having regard to article 10 and article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, as amended on 23 
November 2018, 
 
 
Whereas: 
 
(1)  The  main  role  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (hereafter  the  Board)  is  to  ensure  the 
consistent  application  of  the  Regulation  2016/679  (here  after  GDPR)  throughout  the  European 
Economic Area. Article 64(2) GDPR provides that any supervisory authority, the Chair of the Board or 
the Commission may request that any matter of general application or producing effects in more than 
one Member State be examined by the Board with a view to obtaining an opinion. The aim of this 
opinion  is  to  examine  a  matter  of  general  application  or  which  produces  effects  in  more  than  one 
Member State. 

(2)  On  3  December  2018,  the  Belgian  Data  Protection  Authority  requested  the  European  Data 
Protection Board to examine and issue an Opinion on the interplay between the GDPR and the ePrivacy 
Directive, in particular regarding the competence, tasks and powers of data protection authorities. 
 
(3) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and the 
competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter. 
 
 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

 

 

adopted 

 

3 

 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

On 3 December 2018, the Belgian DPA requested the European Data Protection Board to examine and 
issue  an  opinion  on  the  interplay  between  the  ePrivacy  Directive1  and  the  GDPR,    submitting  the 
following questions : 

a.  Regarding the competence, tasks and powers of data protection authorities2, whether 

i.  data  protection  authorities  are  able  or  not  able  to  exercise  their  competence,  tasks  and 
powers  in  relation  to  processing  that  triggers,  at  least  in  relation  to  certain  processing 
operations,  the  material  scope  of  both  the  GDPR  and  the  ePrivacy  Directive;  and  if  so, 
whether 

ii.  data  protection  authorities  may  or  should  take  into  account  provisions  of  the  ePrivacy 
Directive and/or its national implementations when exercising their competences, tasks and 
powers under the GDPR (e.g., when assessing the lawfulness of processing) and if so, to what 
extent. 

b.  whether the cooperation and consistency mechanisms can or should be applied in relation to 
processing that triggers, at least in relation to certain processing operations, the material scope 
of both the GDPR and the ePrivacy Directive; and 

c.  the extent to which processing can be governed by provisions of both the ePrivacy Directive 

and the GDPR and whether or not this affects the answers to questions 1 and 2.  
 

2. 

The Board considers that these questions concern a matter of general application of the GDPR, as there 
is a clear need for a consistent interpretation among data protection authorities on the boundaries of 
their competences, tasks and powers. Clarification is particularly needed to ensure, amongst other, a 
consistent practice of mutual assistance in accordance with article 61 of the GDPR and joint operations 
in accordance with article 62 of the GDPR.  

3. 

This opinion does not relate to any such division of competences, tasks and powers of data protection 
authorities under the proposal for the ePrivacy Regulation. 

 

                                                           
1 Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing 
of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and 
electronic communications) as amended by Directive 2006/24/EC and Directive 2009/136/EC. 
2  As  set  forth  by  articles  55-58  GDPR.  The  term  “data  protection  authorities”  (as  opposed  to  “supervisory 
authorities”) shall be used throughout this Opinion in order to clearly distinguish the “supervisory authorities” 
envisaged by the GDPR from other types of supervisory authorities, such as the national regulatory authorities 
mentioned in Directive 2002/58/EC. 

adopted 

 

4 

 

2  LEGAL CONTEXT 

2.1  Relevant provisions of the GDPR 

4. 

According  to  article 2(1),  the  GDPR  applies  to  “the  processing  of  personal  data  wholly  or  partly  by 
automated means and to the processing other than by automated means of personal data which form 
part of a filing system or are intended to form part of a filing system.”    
Article 2(2) of the GDPR states that the GDPR shall not apply to the processing of personal data:  

“(a) in the course of an activity which falls outside the scope of Union law;  

(b) by the Member States when carrying out activities which fall within the scope of Chapter 2 
of Title V of the TEU;  

(c) by a natural person in the course of a purely personal or household activity;  

(d)  by  competent  authorities  for  the  purposes  of  the  prevention,  investigation, detection  or 
prosecution  of  criminal  offences  or  the  execution  of  criminal  penalties,  including  the 
safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to public security”. 

5. 

6. 

Article  5,  entitled  “Principles  relating  to  the  processing  of  personal  data”,  contains  the  principles 
applicable  to  any  processing  of  personal  data,  including  the  requirement  that  any  processing  of 
personal data shall be lawful and fair.3 Article 6 describes the circumstances in which processing of 
personal data shall be lawful, one of which relates to the consent of the data subject. Article 7 further 
specifies the conditions for valid consent within the meaning of the GDPR.4 

Article  51(1)  sets  forth  the  legal  mandate  of  data  protection  authorities,  which  is  to  monitor  the 
application of the GDPR in order to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons in 
relation to processing and to facilitate the free flow of personal data within the Union. Articles 55, 57 
and 58 specify the competences, tasks and powers of each data protection authority. Chapter VII of 
the GDPR, entitled ‘Cooperation and Consistency’, specifies the different ways in which data protection 
authorities shall cooperate in order to contribute to a consistent application of the GDPR.   

7. 

Article 94, entitled ‘Repeal of Directive 95/46’, states that  

“1. 

Directive 95/46/EC is repealed with effect from 25 May 2018.  

References to the repealed Directive shall be construed as references to this Regulation. 
2. 
References to the Working Party on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing 
of  Personal  Data  established  by  Article  29  of  Directive  95/46/EC  shall  be  construed  as 
references to the European Data Protection Board established by this Regulation.” 

 

 

                                                           
3 See also recital (39) GDPR (“Any processing of personal data should be lawful and fair. […]”). 
4 See the WP29 Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679, WP259 rev.01, endorsed by the EDPB on 25 
May 2018.  

adopted 

 

5 

 

8. 

Article 95, entitled ‘Relationship with Directive 2002/58/EC’, stipulates that  

“This Regulation shall not impose additional obligations on natural or legal persons in relation 
to processing in connection with the provision of publicly available electronic communications 
services in public communication networks in the Union in relation to matters for which they 
are subject to specific obligations with the same objective set out in Directive 2002/58/EC.” 

9. 

Recital (173) of the GDPR stipulates that:  

“(173) This Regulation should apply to all matters concerning the protection of fundamental 
rights and freedoms vis-à- vis the processing of personal data which are not subject to specific 
obligations with the same objective set out in Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament 
and of the Council, including the obligations on the controller and the rights of natural persons. 
In  order  to  clarify  the  relationship  between  this  Regulation  and  Directive  2002/58/EC,  that 
Directive  should  be  amended  accordingly.  Once  this  Regulation  is  adopted,  Directive 
2002/58/EC  should  be  reviewed  in  particular  in  order  to  ensure  consistency  with  this 
Regulation.” 

2.2  Relevant provisions of the Framework Directive  

10.  Article 2(g) of the Framework Directive5 defines a ‘national regulatory authority’ as  

“the body or bodies charged by a Member State with any of the regulatory tasks assigned in 
this Directive and the Specific Directives.” 

11.  Article 2(l) of the Framework Directive states that 

‘‘’Specific  Directives’  means  Directive  2002/20/EC  (Authorisation  Directive),  Directive 
2002/19/EC (Access Directive), Directive 2002/22/EC (Universal Service Directive) and Directive 
2002/58/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  12  July  2002  concerning  the 
processing  of  personal  data  and  the  protection  of  privacy  in  the  electronic  communications 
sector (Directive on privacy and electronic communications).” 

12.  Article 3(1) of the Framework Directive provides that  

“Member States shall ensure that each of the tasks assigned to national regulatory authorities 
in this Directive and the Specific Directives is undertaken by a competent body.” 

2.3  Relevant provisions of the ePrivacy Directive  

13.  Article 1(2) of the ePrivacy Directive stipulates that 

“The provisions of this Directive particularise and complement [Regulation (EU) 2016/679] for 
the  purposes  mentioned  in  paragraph  1.  Moreover,  they  provide  for  protection  of  the 
legitimate interests of subscribers who are legal persons.”6 

 

 

                                                           
5 Directive 2002/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on a common 
regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (Framework Directive). 

6 In accordance with article 94(2) of the GDPR, all references to Directive 95/46 in the ePrivacy Directive have 
been replaced with “[Regulation (EU) 2016/679]” and references to the “Working Party on the Protection of 
Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data instituted by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC” have 
been replaced with “[European Data Protection Board]”. 

adopted 

 

6 

 

14.  Article 2(f) of the ePrivacy Directive states that  

“‘consent’ by a user or subscriber corresponds to the data subject's consent in [Regulation (EU) 
2016/679]” 

15.  Article 15(2) of the ePrivacy Directive stipulates that  

“The  provisions  of  [Chapter  VIII  on  remedies,  liability  and  penalties]  of  [Regulation  (EU) 
2016/679] shall apply with regard to national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and 
with regard to the individual rights derived from this Directive.”  

16.  Article 15(3) of the ePrivacy Directive stipulates that 

“The [European Data Protection Board] shall also carry out the tasks laid down in [Article 70 of 
Regulation  (EU)  2016/679]  with  regard  to  matters  covered  by  this  Directive,  namely  the 
protection  of  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  and  of  legitimate  interests  in the  electronic 
communications sector.” 

17.  Article 15a, entitled ‘Implementation and enforcement’, stipulates that  

“1. Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties, including criminal sanctions where 
appropriate, applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this 
Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. […] 

2.  Without  prejudice to  any  judicial  remedy which  might  be  available,  Member States  shall 
ensure that the competent national authority and, where relevant, other national bodies have 
the power to order the cessation of the infringements referred to in paragraph 1. 

 3. Member States  shall  ensure that  the  competent  national  authority  and, where relevant, 
other  national  bodies  have  the  necessary  investigative  powers  and  resources,  including  the 
power to obtain any relevant information they might need to monitor and enforce national 
provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive. 

4. The relevant national regulatory authorities may adopt measures to ensure effective cross-
border cooperation in the enforcement of the national laws adopted pursuant to this Directive 
and to create harmonised conditions for the provision of services involving cross-border data 
flows. 

The national regulatory authorities shall provide the Commission, in good time before adopting 
any such measures, with a summary of the grounds for action, the envisaged measures and the 
proposed  course  of  action.  The  Commission  may,  having  examined  such  information  and 
consulted  ENISA  and  the  [European  Data  Protection  Board],  make  comments  or 
recommendations  thereupon,  in  particular  to  ensure  that  the  envisaged  measures  do  not 
adversely affect the functioning of the internal market. National regulatory authorities shall 
take the utmost account of the Commission's comments or recommendations when deciding 
on the measures.” 

18.  Recital (10) of the ePrivacy Directive states that  

“In the electronic communications sector, [Regulation (EU) 2016/679] applies in particular to 
all  matters  concerning  protection  of  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms,  which  are  not 
specifically  covered  by  the  provisions  of  this  Directive,  including  the  obligations  on  the 
controller  and  the  rights  of  individuals.  [Regulation  (EU)  2016/679]  applies  to  non-public 
communications services.” 

adopted 

 

7 

 

3  SCOPE OF THIS OPINION 

19. 

20. 

The GDPR  has the objective  to protect fundamental rights  and freedoms of natural persons and in 
particular their right to the protection of personal data and to ensure the free movement of personal 
data  within  the  Union.7  To  achieve  this  objective,  the  GDPR  lays  down  common  rules  on  data 
processing, so as to ensure consistent effective protection of personal data throughout the Union and 
to prevent divergences hampering the free movement of personal data within the internal market. 
The  rules  serve  to  ensure  a  balance  between  the  (potential)  benefits  of  data  processing  and  the 
(potential) drawbacks. 

The ePrivacy Directive has the objective to harmonise the national provisions required to ensure an 
equivalent level of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, and in particular the right to privacy 
and confidentiality, with respect to the processing of personal data in the electronic communication 
sector and to ensure the free movement of such data and of electronic communication equipment and 
services in the Community.8 The ePrivacy Directive seeks therefore to ensure respect for the rights set 
out in articles 7 and 8 of the Charter. In this regard, the ePrivacy Directive aims to “particularise and 
complement”  the  provisions  of  the  GDPR,  with  respect  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the 
electronic communication sector.9  

21. 

The questions referred to the Board are limited to processing that triggers the material scope of both 
the GDPR and the ePrivacy Directive. In order to further clarify the scope of this opinion, the following 
sections clarify:  

  where there is no interplay between the GDPR and the ePrivacy Directive because the matter 

falls outside of the scope of the GDPR;  

  where there is no interplay between the GDPR and the ePrivacy Directive because the matter 

falls outside of the scope of the ePrivacy Directive; and 

  where  there  is  an  interplay  between  the  GDPR  and  the  ePrivacy  Directive  because  the 

processing triggers the material scope of both the GDPR and the ePrivacy Directive. 

 

 

                                                           
7 Article 1 of the GDPR. 
8 Article 1(1) of the ePrivacy Directive. 
9 Article 1(1)-(2) of the ePrivacy Directive, to be read in light of article 94(2) GDPR. 

adopted 

 

8 

 

3.1 

  Matters outside the scope of the GDPR 

22. 

In principle, the material scope of the GDPR covers any form of processing of personal data, regardless 
of the technology used.10 The GDPR shall not be applicable when: 

  no personal data are being processed (e.g. a phone number of an automated customer service 
of  a  legal  person,  or  the  IP  address of  a  digital  photocopier  in  a  corporate  network  do  not 
constitute  personal data); 
the activities fall outside of the material scope of the GDPR, taking into account article 2(2) 
and (3) GDPR; or 
the activities fall outside the territorial scope of the GDPR.11 

 

 

3.2 

  Matters outside the scope of the ePrivacy Directive 

23.  A particularity of the ePrivacy Directive is that two of its provisions have a wider scope of application 
than  the  other  provisions,  for  which  the  scope of  application  is  limited  to  the provision of  publicly 
available electronic communications services  in public communications networks. Consequently,  as 
outlined  in  the  following  sections,  two  questions  need  to  be  answered  to  determine  whether  an 
activity  falls inside or outside the material scope of the ePrivacy Directive.  

3.2.1  The general material scope of the ePrivacy Directive 

24.  According  to  its  article  3,  the  ePrivacy  Directive  applies  to  “the  processing  of  personal  data  in 
connection  with  the  provision  of  publicly  available  electronic  communications  services  in  public 
communications  networks in the Community, including public communications  networks supporting 
data collection and identification devices”.  

25.  As such, the ePrivacy Directive in first instance addresses publicly available electronic communication 

services and electronic communication networks.12  
The  Electronic  Communications  Code13  provides  that  services  which  are  functionally  equivalent  to 
electronic communications services are covered.  

 

 

 

                                                           
10 See also recital (46) of the ePrivacy Directive. 
11 Article 3 GDPR. See EDPB Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3), 16 November 
2018. 
12 Commission Staff Working Document,  Ex-post REFIT evaluation of the ePrivacy Directive 2002/58/EC, COM 
SWD(2017)005  report,  p.  20 ;  Report  to  the  Commission  “ePrivacy  Directive:  assessment  of  transposition, 
effectiveness and compatibility with proposed Data Protection Regulation”, SMART 2013/0071, p. 24 ff.   
13 Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 establishing the 
European Electronic Communications Code. 

adopted 

 

9 

 

26. 

For purposes of its general material scope, the ePrivacy Directive applies when each of the following 
conditions are  met:  

 

 

 

 

there is an electronic communications service (ECS)14; 
this service is offered over an electronic communications network15; 
the service and network are publicly available16; 
the service and network are offered in the EU. 

27.  Activities  which  do  not  meet  all  of  the  above  criteria  are  generally  out  of  scope  of  the  ePrivacy 

Directive.  

Examples:  

A  corporate  network  which  is  accessible  only  to  employees  for  professional  purposes  does  not 
constitute a “publically available” electronic communications service. As a result, the transmission of 
location data via such a network does not fall inside the material scope of the ePrivacy Directive 17   

A clock synchronisation service sends a signal over an electronic communications network to all clocks 
which adhere to its synchronisation protocol (undetermined number of recipients). This service is a 
broadcast service instead of a communication service in the current context and would also fall outside 
the material scope of the ePrivacy Directive. 

 

 

                                                           
14 Article 2(d) ePrivacy Directive specifies that ‘communication’ means “any information exchanged or conveyed 
between  a  finite  number  of  parties  by  means  of  a  publicly  available  electronic  communications  service”  and 
excludes  broadcasting  services  which  may  -  in  theory  -  reach  an  unlimited  audience.  The  term  ‘electronic 
communications  service’  is  currently  defined  by  article  2(d)  Framework  Directive,  though  with  effect 
from 21 December 2020 it shall be defined by article 2(4) of the Electronic Communications Code.   
15  ‘Electronic  communications  network’  is  currently  defined  by  article  2(a)  Framework  Directive,  though  with 
effect from 21 December 2020 it shall be defined by article 2(1) of the Electronic Communications Code. 
16 A service for the public is a  service available to all members  of the public on the same basis, and not only 
publicly  owned  services.  Compare:  EDPS,  Opinion  5/2016,  Preliminary  EDPS  Opinion  on  the  review  of  the 
ePrivacy Directive (2002/58/EC), p. 12 and Communication by the Commission to the European Parliament and 
the  Council  on  the  status  and  implementation  of  Directive  90/388/EEC  on  competition  in  the  markets  for 
telecommunications services, COM(95) 113 final, 04.04.1995, p. 14. 
17 Commission Staff Working Document,  Ex-post REFIT evaluation of the ePrivacy Directive 2002/58/EC, COM 
SWD(2017)005 report, p. 21 
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52017SC0005&from=EN;  Report 
the 
Commission  “ePrivacy  Directive:  assessment  of  transposition,  effectiveness  and  compatibility  with  proposed 
Data Protection Regulation”, SMART 2013/0071, p. 14, 
https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/eprivacy-directive-assessment-transposition-
effectiveness-and-compatibility-proposed-data. 

to 

, 

 

adopted 

 

10 

 

3.2.2  The extended material scope of articles 5(3) and 13 ePrivacy Directive 

28. 

The overarching aim of the ePrivacy Directive is to ensure the protection of fundamental rights and 
freedoms of the public when they make use of electronic communication networks.18 In light of this 
aim,  articles 5(3) and 13 of the ePrivacy Directive  apply  to  providers  of  electronic  communication 
services as well as website operators (e.g. for cookies) or other businesses (e.g. for direct marketing).19   

Examples:  

Search engine services which store or access cookies on the device of a user fall within the extended 
material scope of article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive.20  

Unsolicited electronic mail sent by a website operator for the purposes of direct marketing also fall 
within the extended material scope of article 13 ePrivacy Directive.21 

3.3  Matters within the material scope of both the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR 

29. 

There are many examples of processing activities which trigger the material scope of both the ePrivacy 
Directive  and  the  GDPR.  A  clear  example  is  the  use  of  cookies.  In  its  opinion  on  online  behavioral 
advertising, the Article 29 Working Party stated that  

“If as a result of placing and retrieving information through the cookie or similar device, the 
information  collected  can  be  considered  personal  data  then,  in  addition  to  Article  5(3), 
Directive 95/46/EC will also apply.”22 

30.  Case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) confirms that it is possible for processing 
to fall within the material scope of both the  ePrivacy Directive  and the  GDPR at  the  same  time.  In 
Wirtschaftsakademie23,  the  CJEU  applied  Directive  95/46/EC  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the 
underlying  processing  also  involved  processing  operations  falling  into  the  material  scope  of  the 
ePrivacy Directive. In the pending Fashion ID case, the Advocate General expressed the view that both 
set of rules may be applicable in a case involving social plug-ins and cookies.24  

31.  Whilst the GDPR replaced Directive 95/46/EC on 25 May 2018, the analysis undertaken by the CJEU 
and the Article 29 Working Party according to which both legal acts may apply at the same time are 

                                                           
18 Article 1(1) ePrivacy Directive provides: “This Directive provides for the harmonisation of the national provisions 
required to ensure an equivalent level of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, and in particular the 
right  to  privacy  and  confidentiality,  with  respect  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the  electronic 
communication sector and to ensure the free movement of such data and of electronic communication equipment 
and services in the Community.” 
19 Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Opinion 2/2010 on online behavioural advertising, 22 June 2010, WP 
171, section 3.2.1 p. 9.  Opinion 1/2008 on data protection issues related to search engines (WP148), section 
4.1.3,  p.  12.  ;  Report  to  the  Commission  “ePrivacy  Directive:  assessment  of  transposition,  effectiveness  and 
compatibility with proposed Data Protection Regulation”, SMART 2013/0071, p. 9. 
20 Opinion 1/2008 on data protection issues related to search engines (WP148), section 4.1.3, p. 12 
21 Opinion 1/2008 on data protection issues related to search engines (WP148), section 4.1.3, p. 12. 
22 Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Opinion 2/2010 on online behavioural advertising, 22 June 2010, WP 
171, p. 9. See also Opinion 1/2008 on data protection issues related to search engines (WP148), section 4.1.3, p. 
12-139.  
23 CJEU, C-210/16, 5 June 2018, C‑210/16, ECLI:EU:C:2018:388. See in particular paragraphs 33-34. 
24 Opinion of Advocate General Bobek in Fashion ID, C-40/17, 19 December 2018, ECLI:EU:C:2018:1039. See in 
particular paragraphs 111-115. 

adopted 

 

11 

 

relevant.  Recital (30) of the  GDPR  elaborates  on the definition of “online  identifiers”  in a way  that 
supports the interpretation that processing of personal data may trigger the material scope of both 
the GDPR and the ePrivacy Directive: 

“Natural  persons  may  be  associated  with  online  identifiers  provided  by  their  devices, 
applications,  tools  and  protocols,  such  as  internet  protocol  addresses,  cookie  identifiers  or 
other identifiers  such as radio frequency identification tags. This may leave traces which, in 
particular  when  combined  with  unique  identifiers  and  other  information  received  by  the 
servers, may be used to create profiles of the natural persons and identify them.” 

32.  Worth noting in particular is that ‘IP addresses’ and ‘cookie identifiers’ are mentioned in recital (30), 
which  states  that  IP  addresses  and  cookie  identifiers  might  be  combined  with  other  “unique 
identifiers” and other information received by the servers to create profiles of natural persons.  

33. 

In other words, the GDPR itself explicitly refers, when clarifying its own material scope (the concept of 
personal data), to processing activities which also trigger, at least in part, the material scope of the 
ePrivacy Directive. 

34.  Another example of an activity which triggers the material scope of both the ePrivacy Directive and 
the  GDPR  is  the  customer  relationship  between  electronic  communications  service  providers  and 
natural person that is a user of its services, which involves personal data processing about customers 
on  the  one  hand,  and  are  also  governed  by  specific  rules  for  instance  on  subscriber  directories, 
itemised  billing,  calling  line  identification.  Traffic  data  and  location  data  generated  by  electronic 
communications services may also involve personal data processing, insofar as they relate to natural 
persons. 

35. 

Finally, article 95 of the GDPR and recital (173) GDPR confirm the lex generalis-lex specialis relationship 
between the GDPR and the ePrivacy Directive, with article 95 providing that the GDPR shall not impose 
additional  obligations  on  natural  or  legal  persons  in  relation  to  processing  in  connection  with  the 
provision of publicly available electronic communications services in public communication networks 
in  the  EU  in  relation  to  matters  for  which  they  are  subject  to  specific  obligations  with  the  same 
objective set out in the ePrivacy Directive. 

*** 

36. 

This  opinion  aims  to  provide  clarity  on  the  competence,  tasks  and  powers  of  data  protection 
authorities, with regards to cases which trigger the material scope of both the ePrivacy Directive and 
the GDPR as briefly laid out in the previous sections. The following sections describe some instances 
of interplay between the provisions of the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR and how each sets of rules 
relate to one and other. 

 

 

adopted 

 

12 

 

4  INTERPLAY BETWEEN THE EPRIVACY DIRECTIVE AND THE GDPR  

37.  Although an overlap in material scope exists between the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR, this does 
not necessarily lead to a conflict between the rules. Besides this becoming apparent from reading the 
various  provisions  side  by  side,  article  1(2)  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive  expressly  provides  that  "the 
provisions  of  this  Directive  particularise  and  complement  Directive  95/46/EC  (…)"25.  To  properly 
understand the interplay between the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR, it is necessary to first clarify 
the meaning of article 1(2) of the ePrivacy Directive. After that, the meaning and implications of article 
95 GDPR shall be clarified. 

4.1 

   “To particularise” 

38.  A  number  of  provisions  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive  “particularise”  the  provisions  of  the  GDPR  with 
respect to the processing of personal data in the electronic communication sector. In accordance with 
the  principle  lex  specialis  derogate  legi  generali,  special  provisions  prevail  over  general  rules  in 
situations  which  they  specifically  seek  to  regulate.26  In  situations  where  the  ePrivacy  Directive 
“particularises”  (i.e.  renders  more  specific)  the  rules  of  the  GDPR,  the  (specific)  provisions  of  the 
ePrivacy Directive shall, as “lex specialis”, take precedence over the (more general) provisions of the 
GDPR.27 However, any processing of personal data which is not specifically governed by the ePrivacy 
Directive (or for which the ePrivacy Directive does not contain a “special rule”), remains subject to the 
provisions of the GDPR. 

39.  One example of where the ePrivacy Directive “particularises” the provisions of the GDPR can be found 
in  article  6  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive,  which  concerns  the  processing  of  so-called  “traffic  data”. 
Ordinarily speaking, the processing of personal data can be justified on the basis of each of the lawful 
grounds mentioned in article 6 GDPR. However, the full range of possible lawful grounds provided by 
article 6 GDPR  cannot  be  applied  by  the  provider  of  an  electronic  communications  service  to 
processing of traffic data, because article 6 ePrivacy Directive explicitly limits the conditions in which 
traffic data, including personal data, may be processed. In this case, the more specific provisions of the 
ePrivacy Directive must take precedence over the more general provisions of the GDPR. Article 6 of 
the ePrivacy Directive does not however, curtail the applications of other provisions of the GDPR, such 
as the rights of the data subject. Nor does it negate the requirement that processing of personal data 
must be lawful and fair (article 5(1)a GDPR). 

40.  A similar situation occurs with regards article 5(3) of the ePrivacy Directive, insofar as the information 
stored in the end-user’s device constitutes personal data. Article 5(3) of the ePrivacy Directive provides 
that,  as  a  rule,  prior  consent  is  required  for  the  storing  of  information, or the gaining  of  access  to 
information already stored, in the terminal equipment of a subscriber or user.28 To the extent that the 

                                                           
25 Article 94.2 GDPR provides that references to the repealed Directive 95/46 shall be construed as references to 
the GDPR. 
26 Judgement of the CJEU in Joined Cases T-60/06 RENV II and T-62/06 RENV II, 22 April 2016, ECLI:EU:T:2016:233, 
at paragraph 81. 
27 Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Opinion 2/2010 on online behavioural advertising, 22 June 2010, WP 
171, p. 10. 
28 Pursuant to article 5(3) information in the terminal equipment of a subscriber or user may also be stored or 
accessed insofar as its consists of technical storage or access for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission 

adopted 

 

13 

 

information  stored  in  the  end-users  device  constitutes  personal  data,  article  5(3)  of  the  ePrivacy 
Directive shall take precedence over article 6 of the GDPR with regards to the activity of storing or 
gaining access to this information.  The outcome is similar in the interplay between article 6  of the 
GDPR and articles 9 and 13 of the ePrivacy Directive. Where these  articles require consent for the 
specific actions they describe, the controller cannot rely on the full range of possible lawful grounds 
provided by article 6 of the GDPR. 

41.  A corollary of the “lex specialis” principle is that there shall only be a derogation from the general rule 
insofar as the law governing a specific subject matter contains a special rule. The facts of the case must 
be carefully analysed to find how far the derogation extends, especially in cases where data undergoes 
many different kinds of processing - either in parallel or sequentially.  

Example: 
A  data  broker  engages  in  profiling  on  the  basis  of  information  concerning  the  internet  browsing 
behaviour of individuals, collected by the use of cookies, but which may also include personal data 
obtained via other sources (e.g. “commercial partners”). In such a case, a subset of the processing in 
question,  namely  the  placing  or  reading  of  cookies  must  comply  with  the  national  provision 
transposing article  5(3) of the  ePrivacy Directive.  Subsequent processing of personal data including 
personal data obtained by cookies must also have a legal basis under article 6 of the GDPR in order to 
be lawful.29  

4.2 

 “To complement” 

42. 

The ePrivacy Directive also contains provisions that “complement” the provisions of the GDPR with 
respect  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the  electronic  communication  sector.  For  example, 
several  of  the  provisions  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive  seeks  to  protect  “subscribers”  and  “users”  of  a 
publicly  available  electronic  communications  service.  Subscribers  of  a  publicly  available  electronic 
communications service may be natural or legal persons. By supplementing the GDPR, the ePrivacy 
Directive protects not only the fundamental rights of natural persons and particularly their right to 
privacy, but also the legitimate interests of legal persons.30 

4.3  The meaning of article 95 GDPR  

43.  Article 95 of the GDPR stipulates that the GDPR "should not impose additional obligations on natural 
or legal persons in relation to processing in connection with the provision of publicly available electronic 
communications  services  in  public  communication  networks  in  the  Union  in  relation  to  matters  for 
which they are subject to specific obligations with the same objective set out in Directive 2002/58/EC." 
(emphasis added).  

                                                           
of a communication over an electronic communications network, or as strictly necessary in order for the provider 
of an information society service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user to provide the service. 
29 While data protection authorities cannot enforce article 5(3) of the ePrivacy Directive (unless national law 
confers this competence to them), they should take into account that the processing as a whole involves 
specific activities for which the EU legislature has sought to provide additional protection in order to avoid 
undermining this protection. 
30 Recital (12) of the ePrivacy Directive.   

adopted 

 

14 

 

44. 

The aim of article 95 GDPR is therefore to avoid the imposition of unnecessary administrative burdens 
upon  controllers  who  would  otherwise  be  subject  to  similar  but  not  quite  identical  administrative 
burdens.  An example that illustrates the application of this article relates to the personal data breach 
notification obligation, which is imposed by both the ePrivacy Directive31 and the GDPR32. They both 
provide for an obligation to ensure security, as well as an obligation to notify personal data breaches 
to the competent national authority and the data protection authority, respectively. These obligations 
are applicable in parallel under the two different pieces of legislation, according to their respective 
scopes of  application. Clearly,  an obligation to notify  under both acts, once  in compliance with the 
GDPR and once  in compliance  with national ePrivacy legislation would  constitute an  added  burden 
without  immediate  apparent  benefits  for  data  protection.  Following  article  95  of  the  GDPR,  the 
electronic communications service providers who have notified a personal data breach in compliance 
with  applicable  national  ePrivacy  legislation  are  not  required  to  separately  notify  data  protection 
authorities of the same breach pursuant to article 33 of the GDPR.  

4.4 

 Co-existence 

45.  Where specific provisions exist which govern a particular processing operation or set of operations, 
the  specific  provisions  should  be  applied  (lex  specialis),  in  all  other  cases  (i.e.  where  no  specific 
provisions govern a particular processing operation or set of operations), the general rule will apply 
(lex generalis).  

46.  Recital  (173)  confirms  that,  in  respect  of  the  processing  of  personal  data  to  which  the  specific 

obligations of the ePrivacy Directive do not apply, the GDPR shall remain applicable:  

“to all matters  concerning the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms  vis-à-  vis  the 
processing  of  personal  data  which  are  not  subject  to  specific  obligations  with  the  same 
objective  set  out  in  Directive  2002/58/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council, 
including the obligations on the controller and the rights of natural persons”.33 

47.  Recital (173) to the GDPR reiterates that, which is already stated in recital (10) to the ePrivacy Directive, 
which provides that: “In the electronic communications sector, [Regulation (EU) 2016/679] applies in 
particular  to  all  matters  concerning  protection  of  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms,  which  are  not 
specifically covered by the provisions of this Directive, including the obligations on the controller and 
the rights of individuals.” 

48. 

For  example,  a  provider  of  a  public  communications  network  or  publicly  available  electronic 
communications  service  must  comply  with  national  rules  transposing  article  6(2)  of  the  ePrivacy 
Directive concerning traffic data when processing data necessary for the purposes of subscriber billing 
and interconnection payments. Due to the absence of specific ePrivacy provisions on, for example, the 
right  of  access,  the  provisions  of  the  GDPR  apply.  Likewise,  recital  (32)  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive 
confirms that where the provider of an electronic communications service or of a value added service 

                                                           
31 Article 4 ePrivacy Directive. 
32 Articles 32-34 GDPR. 
33 Recital (173) goes on to state that “In order to clarify the relationship between this Regulation and Directive 
2002/58/EC,  that  Directive  should  be  amended  accordingly.  Once  this  Regulation  is  adopted,  Directive 
2002/58/EC should be reviewed in particular in order to ensure consistency with this Regulation.” That review 
process is still ongoing.  

adopted 

 

15 

 

subcontracts the processing of personal data necessary for the provision of these services to another 
entity,  such  subcontracting  and  subsequent  data  processing  should  be  in  full  compliance  with  the 
requirements regarding controllers and processors of personal data as set out in the GDPR. 

*** 

49. 

The previous sections described how the provisions of the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR interact in 
case  of  processing  which  triggers  the  material  scope  of  application  of  both 
instruments.  
The  following  sections  turn  to  the  resolving  the  questions  referred  to  the  Board  regarding  the 
competence, tasks and powers of data protection authorities, with regards to cases which at least in 
part fall within the scope of the ePrivacy Directive.  

5  ON THE COMPETENCE, TASKS AND POWERS OF DATA 

PROTECTION AUTHORITIES 

50. 

The  Belgian  SA  referred  two  questions  concerning  the  competence,  tasks  and  powers  of  data 
protection  authorities  –  as  set  out  by  articles  55-58  of  the  GDPR  –  to  the  Board,  which  can  be 
paraphrased as follows:  

  Does the mere fact that the processing of personal data triggers the material scope of both 
the  GDPR  and  the  ePrivacy  Directive,  limit  the  competences,  tasks  and  powers  of  data 
protection authorities under the GDPR? In other words, is there a subset of data processing 
operations that should be excluded from their consideration, and if so to what extent? 

  When exercising their competences, tasks and powers under the GDPR, should data protection 
authorities take into account the provisions of the ePrivacy Directive (e.g., when assessing the 
lawfulness of processing), and if so to what extent? In other words, should infringements of 
national ePrivacy rules be taken into account or set aside when assessing compliance with the 
GDPR, and if so, under which circumstances? 

51.  As  a  preliminary  matter,  it  should  be  noted  that  Member  States  are  required  to  ensure  full 
effectiveness of EU law, notably by providing for appropriate enforcement mechanisms. This obligation 
is  founded  on  the  principle  of  sincere  cooperation  established  in  article  4(3)  TFEU.34  The  following 
sections describe in brief the enforcement provisions of the GDPR and ePrivacy Directive respectively 
and the interplay between them.  

 

 

                                                           
34 Article 4.3 TEU provides: “Pursuant to the principle of sincere cooperation, the Union and the Member States 
shall, in full mutual respect, assist each other in carrying out tasks which flow from the Treaties.  
The  Member  States  shall  take  any  appropriate  measure,  general  or  particular,  to  ensure  fulfilment  of  the 
obligations arising out of the Treaties or resulting from the acts of the institutions of the Union.  
The Member States shall facilitate the achievement of the Union's tasks and refrain from any measure which 
could jeopardise the attainment of the Union's objectives.” 

adopted 

 

16 

 

5.1 

 Enforcement of the GDPR 

52. 

The GDPR provides for enforcement of its provisions by independent data protection authorities.  In 
this regard, it should also be noted that article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU (the 
Charter) provides that the processing of personal data shall be subject to control by an independent 
authority:  

 

“Article  8 – Protection of personal  data 

1. Everyone has the right to the protection of personal data concerning him or her. 

2. Such data must be processed fairly for specified purposes and on the basis of the consent of 
the person concerned or some other legitimate basis laid down by law. Everyone has the right 
of  access  to  data  which  has  been  collected  concerning  him  or  her,  and  the  right  to  have  it 
rectified. 

3. Compliance with these rules shall be subject to control by an independent authority.” 

53.  Data protection authorities are given a legal mandate in this regard, as set forth in article 51(1) GDPR, 
which  is  to  monitor  the  application  of  the  GDPR  in  order  to  protect  the  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms of natural persons in relation to processing and to facilitate the free flow of personal data 
within the Union. 

54. 

The GDPR contains one exception and one possibility to derogate this mandate: 

 

 

the competence of the supervisory authorities shall not cover the processing of personal data 
when courts are acting in their judicial capacity (article 55(3) GDPR); 
for processing carried out for journalistic purposes or for the purpose of academic, artistic or 
literary  expression,  Member  States  may  provide  for  exemptions  and  derogations  from 
amongst others Chapters VI (independent supervisory authorities) and VII (cooperation and 
consistency) of the GDPR (article 85 GDPR); 
 

In addition, the powers of the data protection authorities may be extended in line with article 58(6) 
GDPR and may in particular grant the power to fine public authorities and bodies, should a Member 
State provide so in the national legislation (article 83(7) GDPR).  

Being exceptions to the general rule, these provisions must be narrowly construed.  

55.  Where  the  GDPR  limits  or  allows  for  derogations  on  the  competences,  tasks  and  powers  of  data 
protection  authorities,  it  has  done  so  explicitly.  The  GDPR  also  does  not  exclude  data  protection 
authorities in any way from exercising their competences, tasks and powers in relation to processing 
to the extent it triggers the material scope of the GDPR. The question therefore becomes whether the 
EU legislature has envisaged or allowed a derogation on the general competence of data protection 
authorities in cases where provisions of the ePrivacy Directive apply to the processing at issue.  

 

 

adopted 

 

17 

 

5.2 

 Enforcement of the ePrivacy Directive 

56. 

The  enforcement  of  the  provisions  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive  is  closely  linked  to  the  Framework 
Directive35, which  stipulates in  article  3(1) that  “Member States  shall ensure that  each of the tasks 
assigned to national regulatory authorities in this Directive and the Specific Directives is undertaken by 
a competent body36.” 

57.  Article 2(g) of the Framework Directive defines a ‘national regulatory authority’ as  

“the body or bodies charged by a Member State with any of the regulatory tasks assigned in 
this Directive and the Specific Directives.” 

58.  Member states have chosen different ways of allocating the task of enforcing national ePrivacy rules 
to one or more entities.37 This level of variation is possible, as the ePrivacy Directive only sets out some 
general goals to be achieved by the member states on this matter.  

59. 

The ePrivacy Directive does not state that only one national body shall be competent to enforce its 
provisions. In fact, article 15a of the ePrivacy Directive explicitly provides that more than one national 
body may be competent to enforce its provisions. Article 15a also provides for the implementation and 
enforcement of the Directive by Member States including the obligations that Member States shall lay 
down rules on penalties, grant power to order cessation of infringements, grant investigative powers 
and resources etc. as follows: 

“1.  Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties, including criminal sanctions where 
appropriate, applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this 
Directive  and  shall  take  all  measures  necessary  to  ensure  that  they  are  implemented.  The 
penalties provided for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive and may be applied to 
cover the period of any breach, even where the breach has subsequently been rectified. The 
Member  States  shall  notify  those  provisions  to  the  Commission  by  25 May  2011,  and  shall 
notify it without delay of any subsequent amendment affecting them. 

2.  Without  prejudice to  any  judicial  remedy which  might  be  available,  Member States  shall 
ensure that the competent national authority and, where relevant, other national bodies have 
the power to order the cessation of the infringements referred to in paragraph 1. 

3. Member  States  shall  ensure  that  the  competent  national  authority  and,  where  relevant, 
other  national bodies  have the necessary investigative powers and resources, including the 
power to obtain any relevant information they might need to monitor and enforce national 
provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive. 

4. The relevant national regulatory authorities may adopt measures to ensure effective cross-
border cooperation in the enforcement of the national laws adopted pursuant to this Directive 

                                                           
35 Directive 2002/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on a common regulatory 
framework for electronic communications networks and services (Framework Directive), as amended.  
36  Article  2(l)  of  the  Framework  Directive  clarifies  that  “‘Specific  Directives’  refers  to  Directive  2002/20/EC 
(Authorisation  Directive),  Directive  2002/19/EC  (Access  Directive),  Directive  2002/22/EC  (Universal  Service 
Directive) and Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning 
the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive 
on privacy and electronic communications).” 
37 Report to the Commission “ePrivacy Directive: assessment of transposition, effectiveness and compatibility 
with proposed Data Protection Regulation”, SMART 2013/0071, p. 33 ff. 

adopted 

 

18 

 

and to create harmonised conditions for the provision of services involving cross-border data 
flows.” 

60. 

In addition article 15(2) of the ePrivacy Directive contains a provision referring to the provisions of 
Directive 95/46/EC on judicial remedies, liability and sanctions, now to be read as a reference to the 
GDPR:  

“The provisions of Chapter III on judicial remedies, liability and sanctions of Directive 95/46/EC 
shall  apply  with  regard  to  national  provisions  adopted  pursuant  to  this  Directive  and  with 
regard to the individual rights derived from this Directive.” 

61.  Article 15(3) of the ePrivacy Directive also provides:  

“The Working Party on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal 
Data instituted by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC shall also carry out the tasks laid down in 
Article  30  of  that  Directive  with  regard  to  matters  covered  by  this  Directive,  namely  the 
protection  of  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  and  of  legitimate  interests  in the  electronic 
communications sector.”38 

5.3  Enforcement where GDPR and ePrivacy intersect 

62. 

The ePrivacy Directive particularises and complements the GDPR and moreover refers to the latter’s 
provisions on judicial remedies, liability and sanctions (article 15(2) of the ePrivacy Directive read in 
light of article 94 of the GDPR)..  

5.3.1  Question one: are certain processing operations “off limits” for data protection 

authorities? 

  Does the mere fact that the processing of personal data triggers the material scope of both the GDPR 
and  the  ePrivacy  Directive,  limit  the  competences,  tasks  and  powers  of  data  protection  authorities 
under the GDPR? In other words, is there a subset of processing operations they should exclude from 
their consideration, and if so which processing operations shall be excluded? 

63.  Under the GDPR, Member States must have appointed one or more supervisory authorities.  Member 
States may have appointed the same authority to be competent for (part of) the enforcement of the 
national implementation of the ePrivacy Directive, but may also have opted for one or more other 
authorities,  for  example  a  national  telecommunications  regulatory  authority  (NRA),  a  consumer 
protection organisation, or a ministry. 

                                                           
38 Art. 15(3) of the ePrivacy directive provides “The Working Party on the Protection of Individuals with regard 
to the Processing of Personal Data instituted by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC shall also carry out the tasks 
laid down in Article 30 of that Directive with regard to matters covered by this Directive, namely the protection 
of fundamental rights and freedoms and of legitimate interests in the electronic communications sector.”  
Article 94.2 GDPR provides that “References to the repealed Directive shall be construed as references to this 
Regulation. References to the Working Party on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of 
Personal Data established by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC shall be construed as references to the European 
Data Protection Board established by this Regulation.” 
Consequently, Article 30 of Directive 95/46 shall be construed as a reference to the relevant sections of article 
70 GDPR (Tasks of the Board). 

adopted 

 

19 

 

64. 

The  ePrivacy  Directive  gives  Member  States  flexibility  on  which  authority  or  body  to  entrust  with 
enforcement of its provisions.  

65.  While the ePrivacy Directive refers to the provisions of the GDPR regarding judicial remedies, liability 
and sanctions (article 15(2) of the ePrivacy Directive), article 15a(1) of the ePrivacy Directive details 
the  “Implementation  and  enforcement”  provisions  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive.    For  example,  article 
15a(1) provides that “Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties, including criminal sanctions 
where  appropriate,  applicable  to  infringements  of  the  national  provisions  adopted  pursuant  to  this 
Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented...”. As such, the 
ePrivacy Directive explicitly provides Member States discretion with respect to penalties and article 
15(2) does not interfere with the discretion offered to the Member States on enforcement (i.e., to 
determine who enforces the provisions of the ePrivacy Directive).39 

66. 

In case national law confers competence for the enforcement of the ePrivacy Directive on the data 
protection  authority,  the  law  should  also  determine  the  tasks  and  powers  of  the  data  protection 
authority in relation to the enforcement of the ePrivacy Directive. The data protection authority cannot 
automatically rely on the tasks and powers foreseen in the GDPR to take action to enforce national 
ePrivacy rules, as these GDPR tasks and powers are tied to the enforcement of the GDPR. National law 
may assign tasks and powers inspired by the GDPR, but may also grant other tasks and powers to the 
data protection authority for enforcement of national ePrivacy rules in accordance with article 15a of 
the ePrivacy Directive. 

67.  Discretion exists only within the requirements and limits set forth in higher rules. Article 8(3) of the 
Charter  demands  that  compliance  with  personal  data  protection  rules  is  subject  to  control  by  an 
independent authority.40 

68.  When the processing of personal data triggers the material scope of both the GDPR and the ePrivacy 
Directive, data protection authorities are competent to scrutinize subsets of the processing which are 
governed  by  national  rules  transposing  the  ePrivacy  Directive  only  if  national  law  confers  this 
competence on them. However, the competence of data protection authorities under the GDPR in any 
event  remains  unabridged  as  regards  processing  operations  which  are  not  subject  to  special  rules 
contained  in  the  ePrivacy  Directive.  This  demarcation  line  may  not  be  modified  by  national  law 
transposing the ePrivacy Directive (e.g. by broadening the material scope beyond what is required by 
the ePrivacy Directive and granting exclusive competence for that provision to the national regulatory 
authority). 

69.  Data protection authorities are competent to enforce the GDPR. The mere fact that a subset of the 
processing  falls  within  the  scope  of  the  ePrivacy  directive,  does  not  limit  the  competence  of  data 
protection authorities under the GDPR.  

                                                           
39 Note that Article 15a(1) of the ePrivacy Directive was introduced by 2009/136/EC (i.e. an amendment to the 
ePrivacy Directive). 
40 The case law of the CJEU concerning article 28 of Directive 95/46 has clarified the requirements as regards 
independence:  see  e.g.  Judgement  of  9  March  2010,  C‑518/07  (Commission  v.  Germany),  paragraph  17  and 
following; Judgment 16 October 2012, C-614/10 (Commission v. Austria), par. 36 and following; Judgment of 6 
October 2015, C‑362/14 (Safe Harbour), par. 41 and following; Judgment of 21 December 2016, C-203/15 and C-
698/15 (Tele2/Watson), par. 123. 

adopted 

 

20 

 

70.  Where  exclusive  competence  has  been  given  to  a  body  other  than  the  data  protection  authority, 
national  procedural  law  determines  what  should  happen  when  data  subjects  nevertheless  lodge 
complaints with the data protection authority regarding for instance the processing of personal data 
in  the  form  of  traffic  or  location  data,  unsolicited  electronic  communications  or  the  collection  of 
personal data by use of cookies without also complaining about a (potential) infringement of the GDPR. 

5.3.2  Question two: Are national ePrivacy provisions “off limits”? 

  When  exercising  their  competences,  tasks  and  powers  under  the  GDPR,  should  data  protection 
authorities  take  into  account  the  provisions  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive  (e.g.,  when  assessing  the 
lawfulness of processing), and if so to what extent? In other words, should infringements of national 
ePrivacy rules be taken into account or set aside when in assessing compliance with the GDPR, and if 
so, under which circumstances? 

71.  An  example  illustrates  the  difference  with  question  one.  Consider  a  data  broker,  who  engages  in 
profiling  on  the  basis  of  information  obtained  from  two  distinct  sources.  The  first  source  is  data 
collected  concerning  the  internet  browsing  behaviour  of  individuals,  through  the  use  of  cookie 
identifiers and/or other device identifiers. The second source is data obtained via commercial partners, 
who share data about participants in prize draws or cash-back programs.  

72.  Profiling of individuals on the basis of personal data generally falls within the scope of the GDPR and 
therefore within the competence of data protection authorities. If a data protection authority receives 
a complaint regarding the profiling activities undertaken by the data broker, what consideration may 
data protection authorities give to specific rules, in this case national ePrivacy rules, when assessing 
compliance with the GDPR? 

73.  Worth noting is that ePrivacy Directive is a specific example of a law which offers special protection to 
particular  categories  of  data  which  may  be  personal  data.  Other  legal  texts  also  offer  particular 
protection to specific kinds of data which may be personal data for various reasons (e.g. the context 
of the processing, the nature of the data or the risks for data subjects).41  

74.  Member States  are obligated to appoint  one or more  authorities  to supervise compliance with the 
national  law  transposing  the  ePrivacy  Directive,  and  such  authority(-ies)  is  then  responsible  for 
enforcement of this law. The national law transposing the ePrivacy Directive  applies to the specific 
processing operation(s) governed by the ePrivacy Directive (e.g. a processing operation which consists 
of the storing of or access to information stored on the end-users device). 

                                                           
41 An example can be found in the financial sector: Specific protection is afforded to data used to assess a person’s 
creditworthiness  or  the  publicity  to  be  given  to  administrative  penalties.  See:  Article  21(1)  in  Directive 
2014/17/EU  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  4  February  2014  on  credit  agreements  for 
consumers relating to residential immovable property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and 
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010; Articles 68-69 in Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit 
institutions  and  investment  firms,  amending  Directive  2002/87/EC  and  repealing  Directives  2006/48/EC  and 
2006/49/EC. 
Another example can be found in the rules on clinical trials: see articles 28 - 35 of Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials on medicinal products for human 
use, and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC. 

adopted 

 

21 

 

75.  Unless  national  law  gives  them  such  competence,  data  protection  authorities  cannot  enforce  the 
provisions  (of  national  law  implementing)  the  ePrivacy  Directive  as  such  when  exercising  their 
competences under the GDPR. However, as indicated earlier, the processing of personal data which 
involves  operations  subject  to  the  material  scope  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive,  may  involve  additional 
aspects for which the ePrivacy Directive does not contain a “special rule”. For example, article 5(3) of 
the ePrivacy Directive contains a special rule for the storing of information, or the gaining of access to 
information already stored, in the terminal device of an end-user. It does not contain a special rule for 
any  prior  or  subsequent  processing  activities  (e.g.,  the  storage  and  analysis  of  data  regarding  web 
browsing activity for purposes of online behavioural advertising or security purposes). As a result, data 
protection  authorities  remain  fully  competent  to  assess  the  lawfulness  of  all  other  processing 
operations that follow the storing of or access to information in the terminal device of the end-user.42  

76.  An infringement of the GDPR might also constitute an infringement of national ePrivacy rules. The data 
protection  authority  may  take  this  factual  finding  as  to  an  infringement  of  ePrivacy  rules  into 
consideration  when  applying  the  GDPR  (e.g.,  when  assessing  compliance  with  the  lawfulness  or 
fairness principle under article 5(1)a GDPR).  However, any enforcement decision must be justified on 
the basis of the GDPR, unless the data protection authority has been granted additional competences 
by Member State law. 

77. 

If national law designates the data protection authority as competent authority under the ePrivacy 
Directive, this data protection authority has the competence to directly enforce national ePrivacy rules 
in addition to the GDPR (otherwise it does not). 

78.  As a general comment, where several authorities are competent for the different legal instruments, 
they should ensure that enforcement of both instruments is consistent inter alia to avoid a breach of 
the non bis in idem principle in case infringements of provisions of the GDPR and ePrivacy Directive 
which took place in the context of one processing activity are strongly linked. 

                                                           
42 In this regard, reference should be made to the Opinion of the WP29 on legitimate interest (06/2014) and the 
WP29  opinion  on  purpose  limitation  (Opinion  03/2013),  which  clarify  that  certain  forms  of  behavioural 
advertising require consent of the data subject, not just because of article 5(3). Opinion on purpose limitation 
states: 
“The  second  potential  scenario  is  when  an  organisation  specifically  wants  to  analyse  or  predict  the  personal 
preferences,  behaviour  and  attitudes  of  individual  customers,  which  will  subsequently  inform  'measures  or 
decisions' that are taken with regard to those customers. In these cases, free, specific, informed and unambiguous 
'opt-in'  consent  would  almost  always  be  required,  otherwise  further  use  cannot  be  considered  compatible. 
Importantly,  such  consent  should  be  required,  for  example,  for  tracking  and  profiling  for  purposes  of  direct 
marketing,  behavioural  advertisement,  data-brokering,  location-based  advertising  or  tracking-based  digital 
market research.” 
Opinion on legitimate interests states: 
“Instead  of  merely  offering  the  possibility  to  opt  out  of  this  type  of  profiling  and  targeted  advertisement,  an 
informed consent would be necessary, pursuant to Article 7(a) but also under Article 5(3) of the ePrivacy Directive. 
As a consequence, Article 7(f) should not be relied on as a legal ground for the processing.” 

adopted 

 

22 

 

6  ON THE APPLICABILITY OF THE COOPERATION AND CONSISTENCY 

MECHANISMS 

79. 

The third question submitted by the Belgian Data Protection Authority to the Board can paraphrased 
as follows:  

 

to what extent is the cooperation and consistency mechanisms applicable in relation to processing that 
triggers, at least in relation to certain processing operations, the material scope of both the GDPR and 
the ePrivacy Directive? 

80. 

Following  Chapter  VII of the  GDPR,  the  cooperation  and  consistency  mechanisms  available to  data 
protection authorities under the GDPR concern the monitoring of the application of GDPR provisions. 
The GDPR mechanisms do not apply to the enforcement of the provisions contained in the ePrivacy 
Directive as such.  

81. 

In any event, article 15(3) of the ePrivacy Directive provides: 

“The [European Data Protection Board] shall also carry out the tasks laid down in [article 70 of 
Regulation  (EU)  2016/679]  with  regard  to  matters  covered  by  this  Directive,  namely  the 
protection  of  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  and  of  legitimate  interests  in  the  electronic 
communications sector.” 

82.  Regarding cooperation between authorities competent for the enforcement of the ePrivacy Directive, 
article 15a(4) of the ePrivacy Directive provides that "the relevant national regulatory authorities may 
adopt measures to ensure effective cross-border cooperation in the enforcement of the national laws 
adopted pursuant to this Directive and to create harmonised conditions for the provision of services 
involving cross- border data flows (…)." 

83. 

84. 

85. 

Such cross-border cooperation between authorities competent for the enforcement of the ePrivacy 
Directive, including data protection authorities, national regulatory authorities and other authorities, 
may take place to the extent that relevant national regulatory authorities  adopt measures to allow 
such cooperation. 

It should be noted that the cooperation and consistency mechanism remains fully applicable, however, 
insofar as the processing is subject to the general provisions of the GDPR (and not to a “special rule” 
contained in the ePrivacy Directive). For example, even if the processing of personal data (e.g. profiling) 
in part relies on access to information stored in the end-user’s device, the data protection rules which 
are not provided by the ePrivacy Directive (e.g. data subject rights, principles of processing) for any 
processing of personal data that takes place following the access to information stored in the end-
user’s device shall be subject to the provisions of the GDPR, including the cooperation and consistency 
mechanisms.. 

In practice, data protection authorities will have carefully select which ‘line of communication’ to use, 
especially if they are not only enforcing the GDPR but also competent to enforce (part of) the national 
transposition of the ePrivacy Directive. The default ‘line of communication’ - as detailed in Chapter VII 
(Cooperation and Consistency) of the  GDPR - shall be used for any and all parts of a procedure that 
envisage using the enforcement powers granted by the GDPR in response to an infringement of the 
GDPR.    

adopted 

 

23 

 

The discretionary ‘line of communication’ may be used by data protection authorities in the context of 
their distinct enforcement powers granted by the national transposition of the ePrivacy Directive and 
only insofar as the procedure aims to respond to infringements of national ePrivacy rules governing 
the specific behaviours regulated by the ePrivacy Directive. As soon as it concerns matters falling within 
the  scope  of  the  GDPR,  data  protection  authorities  are  obliged  to  apply  the  cooperation  and 
consistency mechanism provided by the GDPR.   

7  CONCLUSION 

  Does the mere fact that the processing of personal data triggers the material scope of both the GDPR 
and  the  ePrivacy  Directive,  limit  the  competences,  tasks  and  powers  of  data  protection  authorities 
under the GDPR? In other words, is there a subset of data processing operations they should set aside, 
and if so when? 

86.  When the processing of personal data triggers the material scope of both the GDPR and the ePrivacy 
Directive,  data  protection  authorities  are  competent  to  scrutinize  the  data  processing  operations 
which are governed by national ePrivacy rules only if national law confers this competence on them, 
and such scrutiny must happen within the supervisory powers assigned to the authority by the national 
law transposing the ePrivacy Directive. 

87.  Data protection authorities are competent to enforce the GDPR. The mere fact that a subset of the 
processing  falls  within  the  scope  of  the  ePrivacy  directive,  does  not  limit  the  competence  of  data 
protection authorities under the GDPR.   

  When  exercising  their  competences,  tasks  and  powers  under  the  GDPR,  should  data  protection 
authorities take into account the provisions of the ePrivacy Directive, and if so to what extent? In other 
words, should infringements of national ePrivacy rules be set aside when in assessing compliance with 
the GDPR, and if so when? 

88. 

The authority or authorities that are appointed as competent in the meaning of the ePrivacy Directive 
by  Member  States  is  exclusively  responsible  for  enforcing  the  national  provisions  transposing  the 
ePrivacy Directive that are applicable to that specific processing operation, including in cases where 
the  processing  of  personal  data  triggers  the  material  scope  of  both  the  GDPR  and  the  ePrivacy 
Directive. Nevertheless, data protection authorities remain fully competent as regards any processing 
operations  performed  upon  personal  data  which  are  not  subject  to  one  or  more  specifics  rules 
contained in the ePrivacy Directive.  

89.  An infringement of the GDPR might also constitute an infringement of national ePrivacy rules. The data 
protection  authority  may  take  this  factual  finding  as  to  an  infringement  of  ePrivacy  rules  into 
consideration  when  applying  the  GDPR  (e.g.,  when  assessing  compliance  with  the  lawfulness  or 
fairness principle under article 5(1)a GDPR).  However, any enforcement decision must be justified on 
the basis of the GDPR, unless the data protection authority has been granted additional competences 
by Member State law. 

90. 

If national law designates the data protection authority  as competent authority under the ePrivacy 
Directive, this data protection authority has the competence to directly enforce national ePrivacy rules 
in addition to the GDPR (otherwise it does not). 

adopted 

 

24 

 

  To what extent is the cooperation and consistency mechanisms applicable in relation to processing that 
triggers, at least in relation to certain processing operations, the material scope of both the GDPR and 
the ePrivacy Directive? 

91. 

The cooperation and consistency mechanisms available to data protection authorities under Chapter 
VII of the GDPR, concern the monitoring of the application of GDPR provisions. The GDPR mechanisms 
do  not  apply  to  the  enforcement  of  the  national  implementation  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive.  The 
cooperation and consistency mechanism remains fully applicable, however, insofar as the processing 
is subject to the general provisions of the GDPR (and not to a “special rule” contained in the ePrivacy 
Directive). 

*** 

92. 

The  Board  acknowledges  that  the  interpretation above  is without  prejudice to the outcome  of  the 
current negotiations of the ePrivacy Regulation. The proposed Regulation addresses many important 
elements, including as regards the competences of data protection authorities, but also as regards a 
range of other very important issues. The Board reiterates its position that the adoption of an ePrivacy 
Regulation is important.43 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

 

 

 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

                                                           
43 The EDPB has called upon the European Commission, Parliament and Council to work together to ensure a 
swift adoption of the new ePrivacy Regulation (EDPB statement published on 25 May 2018). 

adopted 

 

25 

