Statement 2/2019 on the use of personal data in the course

of political campaigns

Adopted on 13 March 2019

The European Data Protection Board has adopted the following statement:

Engaging  with  voters  is  inherent  to  the  democratic  process. It allows the preparation  of
political programmes, enables citizens to influence politics and the development of campaigns
in line with citizens expectations.

Political parties,  political coalitions and  candidates  increasingly rely  on personal  data  and
sophisticated  profiling  techniques  to  monitor  and  target  voters  and  opinion  leaders. In
practice, individuals  receive highly  personalised  messages and  information,  especially  on
social media platforms, on the basis of personal interests, lifestyle habits and values.

Predictive tools are used to classify or profile people’s personality traits, characteristics, mood
and other points of leverage to a large extent, allowing assumptions to be made about deep
personality traits, including political views and other special categories of data. The extension
of such data processing techniques to political purposes poses serious risks, not only to the
rights to privacy and to data protection, but also to trust in the integrity of the democratic
process. The Cambridge Analytica revelations illustrated how a potential infringement of the
right to protection of personal data could affect other fundamental rights, such as freedom
of  expression  and  freedom  to  hold  opinions  and the  possibility  to  think  freely  without
manipulation.

The EDPB observes that, in addition to political parties and candidates, several other actors
can  be involved  in  the  processing  of  personal  data  for  political  purposes:  social  media

1

platforms, interest groups, data brokers, analytics companies, ad networks. These actors can
play an important role in the election process and their compliance is subject to supervision
by independent data protection authorities.

In light of the elections to the European Parliament and other elections in the EU scheduled
for 2019, the EDPB wishes to underline a number of key points to be respected when political
parties process personal data in the course of electoral activities:

1. Personal data revealing political opinions is a special category of data under the GDPR.
As a general principle, the processing of such data is prohibited and is subject to a
number  of  narrowly-interpreted conditions, such  as  the  explicit,  specific, fully
informed, and freely given consent of the individuals.1

2. Personal data which have been made public, or otherwise been shared by individual
voters, even if they are not data revealing political opinions, are still subject to, and
protected, by EU data protection law. As an example, using personal data collected
through social media cannot be undertaken without complying with the obligations
concerning transparency, purpose specification and lawfulness.

3. Even where the processing is lawful, organisations need to observe their other duties
pursuant to the GDPR, including the duty to be transparent and provide sufficient
information to the individuals who are being analysed and whose personal data are
being  processed,  whether  data  has  been  obtained directly  or indirectly. Political
parties and candidates must stand ready to demonstrate how they have complied with
data  protection  principles, especially the  principles  of  lawfulness,  fairness  and
transparency.

4. Solely automated decision-making, including profiling, where the decision legally or
similarly  significantly  affects  the  individual  subject  to  the  decision, is  restricted.
Profiling  connected to  targeted  campaign  messaging  may  in  certain  circumstances
cause ‘similarly significant effects’ and shall in principle only be lawful with the valid
explicit consent of the data subject.2

5.

In case of targeting, adequate information should be provided to voters explaining
why they are receiving a particular message, who is responsible for it and how they
can exercise their rights as data subjects. In addition, the Board notes that, under the

1 See article 9 GDPR. One example is that of data manifestly made public by the data subject, which, like other
derogations  of  special  data  categories,  should  be  interpreted narrowly,  as  it  cannot  be  used  to  legitimate
inferred data.
2 The EDPB has previously clarified that a legal effect generated by automated decision-making may include
affecting a person's vote in an election.

v.1 adopted

2

law of some Member States, there is a transparency requirement as to payments for
political advertisement.

The  EDPB refers political  parties and  other  stakeholders to  the  practical  guidance  and
recommendations issued by several data protection authorities regarding the use of data in
the course of elections.3 It also welcomes the set of measures presented by the European
Commission in September 2018,4 and the Conclusions of the Council and of the Member
States on securing free and fair European elections.5

EDPB  members also  work  together  with  other  relevant  competent authorities6 to  ensure
consistent  interpretation  and  compliance  with  applicable  laws,  including  the  GDPR, to
safeguard trust in the security and integrity of the elections to the European Parliament and
other elections in the EU scheduled for 2019 and beyond.

Compliance with data protection rules, including in the context of electoral activities and
political campaigns, is essential to protect democracy. It is also a means to preserve the trust
and confidence of citizens and the integrity of elections. Ahead of the upcoming electoral
deadlines, data protection authorities are committed to monitor and, if necessary, enforce
the  application  of  data  protection  principles  in  the  context  of  elections  and  political
campaigns, such as transparency, purpose limitation, proportionality and security, as well as
the  exercise  of data  subject  rights. Data protection authorities will  make  full  use  of their
powers, as provided by the GDPR, and ensure cooperation and consistency in their actions
within the framework of the EDPB.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

campaigns:

3 See Annex I.
4 And especially the Guidance on the application of EU data protection law and the Recommendation on election
cooperation  networks,  online  transparency,  protection  against  cybersecurity 
incidents  and  fighting
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/sites/beta-political/files/soteu2018-
disinformation 
cybersecurity-elections-recommendation-5949_en.pdf.
5 https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-6573-2019-REV-1/en/pdf.
6 For  instance,  in  the  framework  of  European  election  networks as  further  described in  the  Commission's
"electoral package" (see, in particular, the Recommendation on election cooperation networks mentioned in
footnote 4 above and the Commission’s proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council
amending Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1141/2014 as regards a verification procedure related to infringements
of rules on the protection of personal data in the context of elections to the European Parliament).

v.1 adopted

3

