• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To:  Monetise  Media  Limited 

Of:  Unit J  Williams Yard 

Derby Road 
Melbourne 
Derby 
DE73  8JR 

1. 

The Information  Commissioner ("the Commissioner")  has decided  to 

issue  Monetise  Media  Limited  ("MML")  with  a  monetary penalty under 

section  SSA  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 ("DPA"). The  penalty is  in 

relation  to a serious contravention  of regulation  22 of the  Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003  ("PECR"). 

2. 

This  notice  explains the  Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

MML,  whose  registered  office address is  given  above  (Companies  House 

Registration  Number:  07875484)  is  the organisation  stated  in  this 

notice to have instigated the transmission  of unsolicited 

communications  by means of electronic mail to individual  subscribers 

for the purposes of direct marketing  contrary to regulation  22 of PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  22 of PECR  states: 

1 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"(1)  This 

regulation  applies 

to 

the 

transmission  of  unsolicited 

communications  by  means  of  electronic  mail 

to 

individual 

subscribers. 

(2)  Except in  the  circumstances referred to  in  paragraph  (3),  a person 

shall neither transmit,  nor instigate the transmission of,  unsolicited 

communications  for the purposes  of direct marketing  by means  of 

electronic  mail  unless  the  recipient  of  the  electronic  mail  has 

previously notified the  sender that he  consents  for the  time  being 

to such  communications being sent by,  or at the  instigation  of,  the 

sender. 

(3)  A  person  may send  or instigate  the  sending  of electronic  mail for 

the purposes of direct marketing  where-

( a) that person has obtained the contact details of the recipient 

of that electronic mail in  the course of the sale or 

negotiations for the sale of a product or service to that 

recipient; 

(b)  the direct marketing is  in  respect of that person's similar 

products and services only; and 

( c)  the recipient has been given a simple means of refusing 

(free of charge except for the costs of the transmission of 

the refusal)  the use of his contact details for the purposes 

of such direct marketing, at the time that the details  were 

initially collected,  and,  where he did not initially refuse  the 

use  of the details,  at the time of each subsequent 

communication. 

(4)  A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in  contravention of 

paragraph (2)." 

2 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

5. 

Section  122(5) of the  Data  Protection  Act 2018 "DPA18" defines direct 

marketing as "the communication (by whatever means) of advertising 

or marketing material which  is  directed to particular individuals".  This 

definition  also  applies for the purposes of PECR  (see  regulation  2(2) 

PECR  and  paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule  19 of the  DPA18). 

6. 

Consent in  PECR,  between  29  March  2019  and  31  December 2020,  was 

defined  by  reference to the  concept of consent in  Regulation  2016/679 

("the GDPR"):  regulation  8(2)  of the  Data  Protection,  Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc)  (EU  Exit)  Regulations 

2019.  Article 4(11)  of the GDPR  sets out the following  definition: 

"'consent' of the data subject means any freely given,  specific, 

informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by 

which  he or she,  by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, 

signifies agreement to  the processing of personal data relating  to him 

or her". 

7. 

From  1 January 2021,  consent in  PECR  has  been  defined  by reference 

to the concept of consent in  the  UK  GDPR  as  defined  in  section  3(10)  of 

the  DPA  2018[ 1l:  see  regulation  2(1)  of PECR,  as  amended  by Part  3  of 

Schedule  3,  paragraph  44  of The  Data  Protection,  Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc)  (EU  Exit)  Regulations 

2019/419.  Article 4(11)  of the  UK  GDPR  sets out the following 

definition: "'consent' of the data subject means any freely given, 

specific,  informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 

wishes  by which  he or she,  by a statement or by a clear affirmative 

action,  signifies agreement to  the processing of personal data  relating 

to him or her". 

111 The UK GDPR  is therein defined as  Regulation (EU)  2016/679 of the European  Parliament and  of the Council of 27 
April  2016  ("GDPR")  as  it forms  part  of the  law  of England  and  Wales,  Scotland  and  Northern  Ireland  by  virtue 
of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018. 

3 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

8. 

Recital  32  of the  UK  GDPR  materially  states that  "When  the processing 

has multiple purposes,  consent should be  given for all of them".  Recital 

42 materially provides that "For consent to be informed,  the data subject 

should  be  aware  at least  of the  identity  of the  controller".  Recital  43 

materially  states  that  "Consent is  presumed not to  be  freely  given  if it 

does  not allow separate  consent to  be  given  to  different personal data 

processing operations despite it being appropriate in the individual case". 

9. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a  living individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals". 

10.  A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services". 

11. 

"Electronic mail" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "any text, 

voice,  sound or image message sent over a public electronic 

communications network which  can  be stored in  the network or in  the 

recipient's terminal equipment until it is  collected by the recipient and 

includes messages sent using a short message service". 

12.  Section  SSA  of the  DPA  (as applied  to PECR  cases  by Schedule  1 to 

PECR,  as  variously amended)  states: 

"(1)  The  Commissioner may serve a person  with a monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is  satisfied that -

(a)  there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

of the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 

Directive)  Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This  subsection applies if the contravention  was  deliberate. 

4 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

(3)  This  subsection applies if the person  -

(a)  knew or ought to have known  that there  was a  risk that the 

contravention  would occur,  but 

(b) failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the 

contravention." 

13.  The  Commissioner has  issued  statutory guidance under section  55C(l) 

of the  DPA  about the issuing  of monetary penalties that has  been 

published  on  the ICO's website.  The  Data  Protection  (Monetary 

Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty and  Notices)  Regulations  2010 prescribe 

that the amount of any penalty determined  by the  Commissioner must 

not exceed  £500,000. 

14.  PECR  were enacted  to protect the individual's fundamental  right to 

privacy in  the  electronic communications sector.  The  Commissioner will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' 

overall  aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy 

rights. 

15.  The  provisions of the  DPA  remain  in  force  for the purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding the introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20  to the  DPA18. 

Background to the case 

The  initial investigation  into MML 

16.  Mobile  phone  users can  report the receipt of unsolicited  marketing text 

messages to the  Mobile  UK's  Spam  Reporting  Service  by forwarding  the 

message to 7726 (spelling  out "SPAM").  Mobile  UK  is  an  organisation 

5 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

that represents the  interests of mobile operators in  the  UK.  The 

Commissioner is  provided  with  access to the data  on  complaints made 

to the  7726 service  and  this data  is  incorporated  into a  Monthly Threat 

Assessment (MTA)  used  to ascertain  organisations in  breach  of PECR. 

17. 

In July 2021, the Commissioner carried  out a review  of 7726 

complaints data. This involved  searching the body of text messages 

which  were the  subject of 7726 complaints for the phrase 'struggling 

with  debt'. The  review  identified  726 complaints that included this 

phrase  during the  period  04 January 2021 to 27 July 2021. 

18.  Further analysis of the text messages  identified five  web  addresses 

("URLs"),  mentioned  in  the messages,  that had  generated  10  or more 

complaints.  One  of these  URLs  was 'debtkickout.co.uk', which 

redirected to a website called 'Clear My  Debt'.  A further search  for this 

URL  was  carried  out on  the 7726 complaints data,  which  identified 

another 57  complaints for the period  from  15 June  2021 to  19 July 

2021. 

19.  MML owns the 'Clear My  Debt' website.  MML  was  incorporated on  8 

December 2011  and  is  a marketing  and  technology company that 

works with  a range  of third-party data  controllers who generate leads 

for their advertising  partners. 

20.  On  28  July 2021,  an  investigation  letter was  sent to  MML.  The  letter 

asked  MML to provide details of calling  line  identifiers ("Clls") used to 

send  marketing text messages,  volumes of marketing text messages 

sent and  received,  and  evidence of individuals consenting to receiving 

such  text messages. 

21.  MML  responded  on  6 August 2021.  It explained  that it did  not send 

marketing text messages  itself but relied  on  an  affiliate, -

6 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

("~"), to send  marketing text messages to their 

own  data  set promoting  MML's  Clear My  Debt product. 

22. 

-

also  provided  a response to the Commissioner's investigation 

letter.  It explained  that it used  a website called ' 

'to collect 

personal  information from  individuals. This  website  suggests that 

individuals with  a poor credit rating  would  be  able to obtain  a mobile 

phone telephone contract. 

23. 

-supplied an  example  of a customer journey through their website 

which  ended  with the submission  of personal  information. There  is  no 

indication  during this journey that a customer's  personal  information 

will  be  passed  to other third  parties for other purposes.  -
policy states that information  collected  by 1111 will  be  passed  to 
organisations which  include Clear My  Debt,  Lemon  Loans  (which 

privacy 

operates the website  'lemonloans.co.uk'),  and  others.  By  accepting  the 

terms and  conditions of 

,  individuals are  automatically opted 

in  to receiving  marketing contacts from  these  other organisations. 

24.  On  20  August 2021, the Commissioner asked 1111 if it carried  out any 

other campaigns for MML. 1111 responded  on  23  August,  confirming 
that it carried  out a campaign  for MML  promoting  Lemon  Loans.  On  24 

August 2021, the  Commissioner asked  MML  if they used  any other 

affiliates to send  marketing  messages on  their behalf.  MML  responded 

the same  day to state that no  other affiliates had  been  used.  An  end  of 

investigation  letter was therefore sent on  26  August. 

The  further investigation  into MML 's other affiliates 

25.  However, the Commissioner then  carried  out a further review  of 

complaints  made by members of the  public,  which  identified  5 

additional  complaints in  which  it appeared  that further affiliates had 

7 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

been  used  by MML.  He  informed  MML of this finding  on  27 August 

2021. 

26.  MML  responded  on  3 September 2021,  confirming that it had  used 

other affiliates to send  marketing  messages,  including 

-· 

27. 

operates the website ' 

'.  This allows 

individuals to opt in  to receiving  marketing messages from  certain 

organisations and  by specified  means,  or relating to particular sectors. 

One  of the industry sectors  specified  is 'financial  services'.  MML and 

trading  names or products used  by MML  are  not listed  in  the privacy 

policy. 

28.  Further enquiries were  made of MML,  including two telephone 

conferences on  24  September 2021  and  27  September 2021,  seeking 

clarification  of the  process  by which  individuals visiting the websites  of 

its affiliates' consented  to receiving  direct marketing  messages. 

29.  The  Commissioner requested  MML to provide further information  about 

the affiliates it used,  as  this had  not initially been  provided  in  response 

to the earlier investigation  letter, and  also advised  MML that it was  not 

named  in  the  privacy policies  used  by its affiliates. 

30.  MML was  of the view that while  it was  not named,  it was  covered  by 

the references  in  these  policies to certain  industry sectors  or services 

(such  as 'short term  loans' or 'financial  services').  MML  later provided 

evidence  including  screen  shots of the  affiliates' websites. 

31.  The  Commissioner requested  further information from  MML  on  4  and 

19  November 2021,  including  a full  list of other affiliate  or sub-affiliate 

websites  used  to collect personal  data  which  was  used  to promote  MML 

8 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

products.  MML said  it was  unable to provide  a full  list,  advising that, 

due to commercial  sensitivity,  it had  not been  able to acquire all  the 

information  requested. 

The  Notice of Intent and the Preliminary Enforcement Notice 

32.  The  Commissioner issued  a Notice of Intent and  Preliminary 

Enforcement Notice to  MML,  both  dated  22 nd  July 2022. 

33.  These  outlined the Commissioner's  preliminary conclusions that,  in 

total,  3,912,751  marketing  emails and  text messages were  received  by 

individuals from  three  MML  affiliates of which  the Commissioner was 

aware;  that MML  instigated the transmission  of those  direct marketing 

messages;  that this constituted  a contravention  of regulation  22  of 

PECR;  and  that the conditions under section  SSA  DPA  were  met. 

34.  The  Commissioner decided  that a penalty in  the sum  of £130,000 was 

appropriate. 

35.  MML  made representations  in  response to the  Notice  of Intent and  the 

Preliminary Enforcement Notice on  2 August 2022 and  26 August 2022. 

MML said  that it operated  simply as  a 'middle-man' which  connected  its 

affiliates with  debt management companies,  and  that it did  not 

instigate the sending  of any marketing  messages. 

36.  The  Commissioner has  considered  these  representations carefully.  It 

finds that this explanation  of MM L's  business model  is  incorrect in 

respect of Lemon  Loans.  The  Privacy  Notice  for lemonloans.co.uk dated 

4  September 2018 states that 

"lemonloans. co. uk is a  website  owned and operated by Monetise  Media 
Ltd,  a company organised under the laws of England and Wales  with a 

9 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Company Number 07875484 and registered with  the Information 

Commissioner's Office  under Registration Number ZA0362 77." 

37.  The  Commissioner therefore finds that MML  did  instigate the 

transmission  of direct marketing  messages  in  respect of Lemon  Loans 

by its affiliate, 

The  marketing messages sent and received 

38.  The  number of marketing emails sent by 

of which 

the  Commissioner is  aware and  received  by members of the public, 

promoting the  Lemon  Loans  brand,  during the period  28 July 2020 to 

28 July 2021  ("the contravention  period"), was  as  follows: 

Marketing 
emails sent 

Marketing 
emails received  Promoted 

MML Brand 

3,974,236 

3,4S7,S86 

Lemon  Loans 

Affiliate 

-

39.  -sent SS,167  marketing text messages on  behalf of MML,  of which 

48,S71  had  been  received  by individuals.1111 informed the 

Commissioner that it only promoted  Lemon  Loans,  and  that it did  so 

via  marketing text messages,  not emails. 

40.  The  Commissioner has  made the above findings of fact on  the 

balance  of probabilities. 

41.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether those facts  constitute 

a contravention  of regulations  22  of PECR  by MML  and,  if so,  whether 

the conditions of section  SSA  DPA  are  satisfied. 

10 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The contravention 

42.  The  Commissioner finds that MML  contravened  regulation  22  of PECR. 

The  contravention  was  as  follows: 

43.  The  Commissioner finds that between  28 July 2020  and  28 July 2021  a 

total  of 3,506,157 direct marketing emails and  text messages were 

received  by subscribers.  The  Commissioner finds that MML  instigated 

the transmission  of those  direct marketing  messages,  contrary to 

regulation  22  of PECR. 

44.  MML,  as  the instigator of the direct marketing,  is  required  to ensure 

that it is  acting  in  compliance with the requirements of regulation  22  of 

PECR,  and  to ensure that valid  consent to send  those  messages  had 

been  acquired. 

45.  For consent to be  valid  it is  required  to be "freely given", by which  it 

follows that if consent to marketing  is  a condition  of subscribing  to a 

service,  the organisation  will  have to demonstrate how the consent can 

be  said  to have  been  given  freely. 

46. 

In this instance,  consent to receiving  marketing text messages by_, 

on  behalf of MML,  was  not freely given.  Individuals are  automatically 
opted  in  to receiving  marketing  messages from 1111 when  they accept 
. This  does  not constitute freely 
the terms and  conditions of 

given  and  valid  consent. 

47.  As  for the consents obtained  by 

, the 

Commissioner's direct marketing  guidance says "organisations need to 

be aware that indirect consent will not be enough for texts,  emails or 

11 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

automated calls.  This  is  because the rules on  electronic marketing are 

stricter,  to reflect the more intrusive nature of electronic messages." 

48.  However,  it does  go  on  to say that indirect consent may be  valid,  but 

only if it is  clear and  specific enough.  If categories of organisations are 

referred to then those categories  must be  tightly defined  and  the 

organisation  wanting to use the consent must clearly fall  within the 

description.  Consent is  not likely to be  valid  where an  individual  is 

presented  with  a long,  seemingly exhaustive  list of categories of 

organisations. 

49.  Consent is  also  required  to be  "specific" as  to the type of marketing 

communication  to be  received,  and  the organisation,  or specific type of 

organisation, that will  be  sending  it. 

50.  Consent will  not be  "informed" if individuals do  not understand what 

they are  consenting to.  Organisations should  therefore always ensure 

that the language used  is  clear,  easy to understand,  and  not hidden 

away in  a privacy policy or small  print.  Consent will  not be  valid  if 

individuals are  asked  to agree to receive  marketing from "similar 

organisations", "partners", "selected third  parties" or other similar 

generic description. 

51. 

In this case,  an  individual  visiting the ' 

website  of 

was  able to opt in  to marketing  messages 

relating  to the 'financial  products' industry sector.  This term  is  too 

broad to count as  specific and  informed  consent to receive  marketing 

messages from 

promoting  Lemon  Loans.  MML 

was  not listed  on  the ' 

'website. 

52. 

In sum, the Commissioner has considered  the 'consents' obtained  by 

MM L's  affiliates on  behalf of MML and  is  concerned  that there are  issues 

12 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

regarding  whether the consent and  be  said  to be  freely given, specific 

and  informed. 

53.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  from  the evidence  he  has  seen 

that MML  did  not have the necessary valid  consent for the 3,506,157 

direct marketing messages  received  by subscribers. 

54.  The  Commissioner has  gone on  to consider whether the conditions 

under section  SSA  DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

55.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied  that the contravention  identified 

above was  serious.  This  is  because  between  28  July 2020  and  28 July 

2021,  a confirmed total  of 3,506,157 direct marketing  messages were 

sent at the  instigation  of MML.  These  messages  contained  direct 

marketing material  for which  subscribers  had  not provided valid 

consent. 

56.  MML  used  a combination  of affiliates to obtain  personal  data  for 

marketing.  MML and 

have admitted that they do  not 

carry out due  diligence on  all  affiliate websites  used.  MML  is  not fully 

aware  of how  personal  data  is  collected  and  has  only reviewed  a small 

number of websites  used  by affiliates. 

57.  The  campaigns instigated  by MML  generated  236 complains  submitted 

to Mobile  UK's Spam  Reporting  Service and  5 email  complaints 

submitted to the Commissioner. 

13 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

58.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (a)  from 

section  55A(l)  DPA  is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

59.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether the  contravention  identified 

above was  deliberate.  In the Commissioner's view,  a contravention  is 

deliberate where  MML's  actions which  constituted that contravention 

were  deliberate actions (even  if MML did  not actually intend thereby to 

contravene  PECR). 

60.  The  Commissioner considers that in  this case  MML did  deliberately 

contravene  regulation  22  of PECR.  During the contravention  period, 

MML  was the instigator of 3,506,157 marketing text messages and 

emails,  which  were  sent by several  affiliates in  order to steer 

individuals to  MM L's  websites and  products.  Further,  MM L's  marketing 

model  is  convoluted  for individuals in  receipt of those  messages. 

61.  For the above  reasons,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that this breach 

was  deliberate. 

62.  Further and  in  the alternative, the Commissioner has  gone  on  to 

consider whether the contravention  identified above  was  negligent. 

This  consideration  comprises two elements: 

63.  Firstly,  he  has  considered  whether MML  knew  or ought reasonably to 

have  known  that there was  a risk that these  contraventions would 

occur.  He  is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met.  Given  that MML  relied 

substantially on  direct marketing  due to the nature of its business,  it 

should  reasonably have sought to familiarise  itself with the relevant 

legislation. 

14 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

64.  Further,  MML  appears to be  aware  of the requirements under the  PECR. 

It referred  to the appropriate  legislation  in  its responses  and  did 

attempt to carry out some  due  diligence on  affiliates.  However,  it did 

not review  all  websites  used,  and  has  instead  relied  on  assurances that 

the affiliates have  obtained that the data  is  fit for purpose. 

65.  The  Commissioner has  published  detailed  guidance for those  carrying 

out direct marketing  explaining their legal  obligations under PECR. 

This  guidance  gives clear advice  regarding  the requirements of consent 

for direct marketing and  explains the circumstances  under which 

organisations are  able to carry out marketing  over the phone,  by text, 

by email,  by post,  or by fax.  In particular it states that organisations 

can  generally only send,  or instigate,  marketing messages to 

individuals if that person  has specifically consented  to receiving  them. 

66.  The  Commissioner has  also  published  detailed  guidance  on  consent 

under the GDPR.  In case  organisations remain  unclear on  their 

obligations, the ICO  operates a telephone  helpline.  ICO 

communications about previous enforcement action  where  businesses 

have  not complied  with  PECR  are  also  readily available. 

67. 

It is  therefore  reasonable to suppose that MML should  have  been  aware 

of its responsibilities  in  this area. 

68.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone  on  to consider whether MML 

failed  to take reasonable  steps to prevent the contraventions.  Again,  he 

is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

69.  The  Commissioner's direct marketing  guidance  makes clear that 

organisations utilising  marketing lists from  a third  party must 

undertake rigorous  checks to satisfy themselves that the personal  data 

15 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

was  obtained  fairly and  lawfully, and  that they have the necessary 

consent. 

70. 

It is  not acceptable to rely  on  assurances given  by third  party 

suppliers,  as  MML  did  in  this case,  without undertaking  proper due 

diligence.  MML and 

admit that they had  not reviewed  all 

the website  used  by affiliates to collect personal  information. 

71.  MML  is  of the view that some  of the websites  used  to collect 

information  did  so  in  compliance  with the  PECR  as  they provided to 

individuals the industry sectors  and  products about which  they may be 

contacted.  However, as  explained  above,  the  Commissioner considers 

that this is  insufficient to count as  valid  consent and  that individuals 

would  not be  fully aware that they would  receive  contact from -

regarding  MML's  products. 

72.  The  Commissioner would  have expected  MML to conduct proportionate 

due diligence  of the websites that collected  data that it used to contact 

individuals,  in  order to confirm  that it had  obtained  adequate  consent. 

MML  could  have  achieved  this by following  customer journeys rather 

than  relying  on  assurances from  third  parties. 

73. 

In the circumstances,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that MML failed  to 

take reasonable  steps to prevent the  contraventions. 

74.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (b)  from  section 

SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 

75.  The  Commissioner has taken  into account the following 

aggravating  features  of this case: 

16 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  The  investigation  by the ICO should  have  alerted  MML that its business 

model was not compliant with the PECR.  There is no evidence to indicate 

that  MML  have  subsequently  reviewed  its  business  model  or processes 

to  ensure  compliance.  Since  this  investigation  commenced  complaints 

about  marketing  of  MML's  products  have  continued  to  be  received  via 

the 7726  reporting  service. 

•  MML  engaged  with  the  Commissioner's  investigation  in  only  a  limited 

fashion.  It informed  the  Commissioner  that  it  used  no  affiliates  other 

than -

when  this  was  incorrect.  It also  subsequently  failed  to  prove 

full  information  when  requested  by the ICO  investigating Officer. 

76.  The  Commissioner does not consider that there are  any mitigating 

factors  in  this case. 

77.  For the  reasons  explained  above,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that the 

conditions from  section  SSA  (1)  DPA  have  been  met in  this case.  She 

He  is  also  satisfied  that the procedural  rights under section  SSB  have 

been  complied  with. 

78.  The  latter has  included the issuing  of a  Notice of Intent, in  which  the 

Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking.  In  reaching  his final 

view, the  Commissioner has taken  into account the  representations 

made by MML  on  this matter. 

79.  The  Commissioner is  accordingly entitled to issue  a monetary penalty in 

this case. 

80.  The  Commissioner has  considered  the likely impact of a monetary 

penalty on  MML.  He  has  decided  on  the information that is  available to 

17 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

him, that a penalty remains the appropriate course  of action  in  the 

circumstances of this case. 

81.  The  Commissioner's underlying objective in  imposing  a monetary 

penalty notice  is  to promote compliance with  PECR.  The  sending  of 

unsolicited  direct marketing messages is  a matter of significant public 

concern.  A monetary penalty in  this case  should  act as  a general 

encouragement towards compliance with the  law,  or at least as  a 

deterrent against non-compliance,  on  the part of all  persons running 

businesses currently engaging  in  these  practices.  The  issuing  of a 

monetary penalty will  reinforce the need  for businesses to ensure that 

they are  only messaging those who specifically consent to receive 

direct marketing. 

82. 

In making  his  decision, the  Commissioner has also  had  regard  to the 

factors set out in  s108(2)(b)  of the  Deregulation Act 2015;  including: 

the  nature and  level  of risks  associated  with  non-compliance,  including 

the  risks to economic growth;  the steps taken  by the business to 

achieve  compliance  and  reasons  for its failure;  the willingness and 

ability of the business to address  non-compliance;  the  likely impact of 

the  proposed  intervention  on  the business,  and  the likely impact of the 

proposed  intervention  on  the wider business community,  both  in  terms 

of deterring  non-compliance and  economic benefits to legitimate 

businesses. 

The amount of the penalty 

83.  Taking  into account all  of the  above,  the Commissioner has  decided 

that a penalty in  the sum  of £125,000  is  reasonable  and  proportionate 

given  the particular facts  of the case  and  the  underlying objective in 

imposing the penalty. 

18 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Conclusion 

84.  The  monetary penalty must be  paid  to the  Commissioner's office  by 

BACS  transfer or cheque  by  13 January 2023 at the latest.  The 

monetary penalty is  not kept by the Commissioner but will  be  paid  into 

the Consolidated  Fund  which  is  the Government's general  bank account 

at the  Bank of England. 

85. 

If the Commissioner receives full  payment of the monetary penalty by 
12 January 2023 the Commissioner will  reduce the  monetary penalty 

by 20% to £100,000.  However,  you  should  be  aware that the early 

payment discount is  not available  if you  decide to exercise your right of 

appeal. 

86.  There  is  a right of appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 

against: 

(a) the imposition  of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified  in  the monetary penalty 

notice. 

87.  Any notice of appeal  should  be  received  by the Tribunal  within  28  days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 

88. 

Information  about appeals  is  set out in  Annex  1. 

89.  The  Commissioner will  not take action  to enforce a monetary penalty 

unless: 

19 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  the  period  specified  within the  notice within  which  a monetary 

penalty must be  paid  has expired  and  all  or any of the monetary 

penalty has not been  paid; 

•  all  relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice  and  any 

variation  of it have  either been  decided  or withdrawn;  and 

•  the  period  for appealing  against the monetary penalty and  any 

variation  of it has expired. 

90. 

In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland, the monetary penalty is 

recoverable  by Order of the  County Court or the  High  Court.  In 

Scotland, the monetary penalty can  be  enforced  in  the same  manner as 

an  extract registered  decree arbitral  bearing  a warrant for execution 

issued  by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom  in  Scotland. 

Dated  12th  December 2022 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

20 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  55B(S)  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 gives any person 

upon  whom  a monetary penalty notice  has  been  served  a right of 

appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the 'Tribunal') 

against the notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the notice against which  the  appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance with the law;  or 

b) 

to the extent that the notice  involved  an  exercise  of 

discretion  by the Commissioner, that he  ought to have exercised 

his discretion  differently, 

the Tribunal  will  allow the appeal  or substitute such  other decision  as 

could  have  been  made  by the  Commissioner.  In any other case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring  an  appeal  by serving  a notice of appeal  on  the 

Tribunal  at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

21 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Telephone:  0203 936  8963 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The  notice of appeal  should  be  sent so  it is  received  by the 

Tribunal  within  28  days of the date of the notice. 

b) 

If your notice  of appeal  is  late the Tribunal  will  not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has extended the time for complying  with  this 

rule. 

4. 

The  notice of appeal  should  state:-

a) 

your name and  address/name and  address  of your 

representative  (if any); 

b) 

an  address where documents may be  sent or delivered to 

you; 

c) 

the name and  address  of the Information Commissioner; 

d) 

details of the decision  to which  the proceedings relate; 

e) 

the result that you  are  seeking; 

f) 

the grounds on  which  you  rely; 

g) 

you  must provide with the notice  of appeal  a copy of the 

monetary penalty notice  or variation  notice; 

h) 

if you  have  exceeded the time limit mentioned  above the 

notice of appeal  must include a request for an  extension  of time 

22 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

and  the  reason  why the notice of appeal  was  not provided  in 

time. 

5. 

Before  deciding  whether or not to appeal  you  may wish  to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser.  At the hearing  of an  appeal  a  party 

may conduct his case  himself or may be  represented  by any person 

whom  he  may appoint for that purpose. 

6. 

The  statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier 

Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  are  contained  in  section  55B(S)  of,  and 

Schedule 6 to, the  Data  Protection  Act  1998, and Tribunal  Procedure 

(First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber)  Rules  2009 

(Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

23 

