

Bonn/Berlin, April 27, 2020


Press release 09/2020


  New date for submission of activity report
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) is postponing the handover of the activity report on data protection to June 17. The reason for this is the measures in place to contain the pandemic. At the new date, the BfDI will not only hand over the activity report on data protection, but also the activity report on freedom of information to the President of the German Bundestag.

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Professor Ulrich Kelber, is optimistic about the situation: We had planned to publish both activity reports together from next year anyway. I would like to see a broad social and political debate on some of the issues. So I hope that the external circumstances will improve by June.
Among other things, the activity report on data protection deals with digitization in healthcare, developments in security authorities and challenges in connection with artificial intelligence. Professor Kelber said: The legal and technical initiatives in the health sector, such as the development of the telematics infrastructure with its applications or the new implant register, have an enormous impact on our society. In addition, the constant expansion of the powers of the security authorities is changing the way we live together. In view of the current discussions on tracking, an overall monitoring bill seems absolutely necessary to me.
Since the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation in 2018, the activity report on data protection has been published annually. The report was originally scheduled to be handed over on April 30th.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











