Registration number:

NAIH / 2019/860/4

Object:

decision was initiated ex officio
in official proceedings

H AT PRICE O Z AT
The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
(address: […]) (hereinafter referred to as the “Debtors”) in the field of real estate under number […]
ex-officio data protection on the subject of data processing with a camera surveillance system
in official proceedings
1. Notes that the debtors have installed on the façade of the property under number […] and
illegal data processing has taken place and is still taking place with the cameras operated by
Justification III. as explained in point.
2. Instructs the Debtors to comply with this decision within 30 days of its final adoption
eliminate illegal camera surveillance in accordance with point 1, their data processing operations
bring them into line with legal provisions by making the affected cameras
their angle of view is adjusted or an appropriate masking and distortion function is used.
The measures provided for in point 2 shall be taken by the Debtor from the date of taking the measure
must provide written confirmation, together with the supporting evidence, within
Towards an authority. In the event of non-compliance with the obligation under point 2, the Authority shall order the decision
implementation.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but from the date of notification
within 30 days of the action brought before the Metropolitan Court in an administrative action
can be challenged. The application must be submitted to the Authority, electronically, which is the case
forward it to the court together with his documents. The request for a hearing must be indicated in the application.
For those who do not benefit from full personal exemption, the judicial review process
its fee is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material fees. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court
legal representation is mandatory.
IND O K O L ÁS
I.

The process and clarification of the facts

I. 1. On 18 July 2018, the Authority received a complaint against the Debtors, in which a
The complainant requested the Authority to provide cameras installed in the area of property […], which
monitor, dismantle and, if possible, sanction both private and public space
it.
On the basis of the complaint received, an investigation procedure was initiated in which the Authority clarified the facts
In order to do so, he contacted the Debtors.
In a letter dated 10 September 2018, the Debtors provided information to the Authority
however, it did not fully address the issues raised
replies, the Authority again requested information from the Debtors.

In their letter dated 2 October 2018, the Debtors repeatedly failed to provide adequate information
therefore the Authority on the right to self-determination and freedom of information
CXII of 2011 (hereinafter: the Information Act), Section 55 (1) (b) and
§ (1), it closed the investigation procedure and initiated official proceedings ex officio.
I. 2. In the ex officio data protection authority proceedings, the Authority repeatedly called on the
They are obliged to provide information with their data management in order to clarify the facts
connection. By letter dated 21 November 2018, the Debtors informed the a
Authority that the camera system consists of 4 cameras, two of which are pseudo-cameras. The cameras
operators to the Data Controller and the Data Controller [subject to formal considerations] […]
it counts as. According to their statement, the cameras were equipped for security and personal security purposes,
because they felt threatened by an earlier debate. Notwithstanding the express request of the Authority,
The obligors did not indicate the legal basis for the data processing in their reply. The Debtors
according to their statements, the cameras have a masking function on the neighbor’s private area
towards the public space, which can be eliminated on a computer with internet access from the cameras
do not have and do not transfer the data to third parties. According to them, the
data subjects were informed orally about the data processing with the camera. The Debtors also
criminal proceedings pending at the […] Police Headquarters with case number […]
obtaining documents to prove that the equipment of the cameras has suffered
was justified by the acts. The Debtors attached an expert opinion to their application
- in which the company installing the cameras has certified that the camera system is 2 cameras
pseudo-camera - and a photo of the house marked by the cameras was attached
location and snapshots of the two sharp cameras.
According to the snapshots taken from the viewing angle of the cameras sent by the Debtors a
adjacent properties are obscured using the masking feature, however, the property
The public space before is not obscured by the masking function, so both cameras monitor public space.
The Authority has contacted the […] Police Headquarters to clarify the facts,
which sent a snapshot of the recording of camera 2 captured on June 7, 2018,
and informed the Authority that the recording was distorted at the time of seizure;
it was not masked, so you can see the garden part of the adjoining property on it.
II.

Applicable legislation

On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR)
shall apply to the processing of personal data in a partially or fully automated manner
processing of personal data in a non-automated manner
which are part of a registration system or which are part of a
intended to be part of a registration system.
Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Regulation does not
shall apply to the processing of personal data if it:
(a) carried out in the course of activities outside the scope of Union law;
(b) by Member States in the course of activities covered by Chapter 2 of Title V of the TEU;
(c) by natural persons exclusively in the course of their personal or domestic activities;
(d) the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offenses by the competent authorities
carried out for the purpose of conducting criminal proceedings or enforcing criminal sanctions, including public security
protection against and prevention of such threats.
2

According to recital 18 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Regulation does not
applicable to personal data provided by a natural person solely for personal or domestic use
any professional or business activity
activity. It is considered a personal or home activity
such as correspondence, directory storage, and said personal and domestic activities
social networking and online activities. E
However, this Regulation should apply to controllers and processors who are personal
means of processing data in the context of such personal or domestic activities
provided.
According to Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, “personal data: the identified or
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"); identifiable by a
a natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular by an identifier, e.g.
name, number, location data, online identifier or physical, physiological,
genetic, intellectual, economic, cultural or social identity
identifiable by that factor. " According to point 2 of that article, 'data processing: personal data
performed on data or files in an automated or non-automated manner
an operation or set of operations, such as collecting, recording, organizing, segmenting, storing,
transformation or alteration, query, insight, use, transmission of communication, distribution
or otherwise made available, through coordination or interconnection,
restriction, cancellation or destruction. " According to point 7, “data controller: is the natural
or a legal person, public authority, agency or any other body that is personal
determine the purposes and means of data processing, either individually or in association with others; if that
the purposes and means of the processing are determined by Union or Member State law, the controller or
specific aspects of the designation of the controller are also governed by Union or Member State law
may determine. "
Pursuant to Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the processing of personal data is limited to
is lawful if and to the extent that at least one of the following is met:
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes
treatment;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which one of the parties is a party;
or to take action at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
required;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(d) processing is in the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person
necessary for its protection;
(e) the exercise of a public interest or the exercise of official authority vested in the controller
necessary for the performance of its task;
(f) processing for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the data subject take precedence over those interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms which call for the protection of personal data,
especially if the child concerned.
Point (f) of the first subparagraph shall not apply to the performance of their duties by public authorities
data management.
The Infotv. Section 2 (2)
the general data protection regulation applies with the additions indicated therein.

3

Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), the enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
To that end, the Authority shall, at the request of the data subject, initiate a data protection authority procedure and
may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), it was taken in a data protection official proceeding
In its decision, the Authority With the data management operations specified in Section 2 (2)
in this context, the legal consequences set out in the General Data Protection Regulation
you can apply. According to Article 58 (2) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory
authority shall condemn the controller or the processor if it acts as a data controller
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation or, in accordance with point (d) of the same paragraph,
the supervisory authority, acting in its corrective capacity, shall instruct the controller to
where appropriate, within a specified manner and within a specified period of time
with the provisions of this Regulation.
III.

Decision

III.1. Person of the data controller
Under Article 4 (7) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is therefore natural
or a legal person […] which independently or for the purposes and means of processing personal data
defined together with others […]. However, the GDPR is also familiar with the concept of a common data controller, which
under Article 26 where there are two or more purposes and means of data processing
jointly determined by the controller.
[…] In his statement to the Authority himself, as the operator of the camera system
clearly designated as a controller and as this is not a questionable fact during the proceedings
and because […] stated that the cameras were personal and property
was installed and entrusted with the installation work above to ensure its safety
therefore, as the person determining the purpose and means of the data processing, the Authority
considered a data controller.
However, in their joint statement in the official procedure, the Clients
that the camera systems are operated jointly - […] their role as data controller was denied by
"Only in the light of formal considerations" is considered to be a controller.
However, in the Authority’s view, by jointly operating the camera system,
its equipment has been jointly decided, the purpose of the data processing has been jointly defined, therefore […]
also qualifies as a data controller and the Clients carry out joint data management with the camera system
during its application.
III.2. Legality of camera data processing
Under the General Data Protection Regulation, the image of the data subject is considered personal data.
An identified or identifiable natural person is concerned. In all these respects, if
a recording can be used to identify a natural person, then the captured image
personal data, the taking of a picture is considered data management.
Use of cameras / camera systems - based on their location and angle adjustment
They may be suitable for observing another private or public area, other
make recordings related to your property that may be offended by persons monitored by the camera
personal rights and privacy.
4

Data management by a privately operated camera / camera system is a GDPR
if it does not qualify as household data processing, ie if it is subject to general data protection
The exception in Article 2 (2) (c) of this Regulation shall not apply to it. In this
personal or domestic activities referred to in
Examples are given in this recital, such as correspondence, directory storage,
personal and home activities on social networks
networking and other online activities. However, it is important to emphasize that - as it is
The Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled in the so-called Rynes judgment1 - for private purposes
the exception for data processing should be interpreted narrowly.
In view of the above, the camera surveillance which is the subject of the present proceedings, in so far as
to the extent that it extends to persons outside the controller's private property
- does not fall under that exception. It cannot be considered as personal or domestic
the processing of data in the framework of the activity is the camera for security purposes
data processing with a surveillance system in the privacy of the data controller
directed to the outside.
The Authority found that Camera No. 1, although camouflaged, is the property
the public area in front of the fence is monitored. The Authority further concluded that
camera no. monitors public areas outside the data controller's property.
Clearly based on the statement sent by the […] Police Department and the attached photo
it can be seen that the setting angle of the camera No. 2 belongs to the adjacent private area
was directed to the front yard and public area before the proceedings were initiated, ie to the Debtors.
no masking function was used during this period.
Considering, therefore, that the Debtors with the cameras they operate in such a way
take a picture that its masking function is inadequate, resulting in
public and other private areas are also monitored, their data processing cannot be considered as household
data management.
Based on the above, the data processing of the Debtors falls within the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation
in which case the lawfulness of the data processing is subject to one of the general data protection rules
the existence of a legal basis governed by Article 6 of the Regulation. The Authority has called on several occasions
data controllers to indicate the legal basis for their data processing, however
Debtors did not comply during the proceedings, nor was it likely to do so
in such a way that they have adequate data subject consent to the processing, or that
camera surveillance is necessary to enforce their legitimate interests, which take precedence
enjoy the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of those concerned.
In view of all this, the Authority found that by providing the No. 1 and No. 2 cameras
they observe the public area in front of their property as well as the adjacent private area
pre-garden was monitored prior to the initiation of the proceedings and that this
the legal basis for the data processing was not specified during the proceedings, the Debtors violated the
Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation, as it has been or is being treated without a proper legal basis
personal data of the data subjects.

1

C 212/13. Case No - http://curia.europa.eu/juris/document/document.jsf?docid=160561&doclang=EN

5

In view of the above, the Authority has condemned the infringement under Article 58 (2) (b) of the GDPR.
Obliged because their data processing activities violated the regulation. The Authority shall also:
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (d) of the GDPR, the Debtors
bring their operations into line with the provisions of the Regulation.
ARC.

Other questions

Unless otherwise provided in the General Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Authority
CL of the General Administrative Procedure Act 2016. Act (hereinafter: Act)
shall apply with the exceptions specified in the Infotv.
Infotv. According to Section 38 (2), the task of the Authority is to protect personal data,
and the right of access to data in the public interest and in the public interest
monitoring and facilitating the enforcement of personal data within the European Union
facilitating the free movement of According to paragraph (2a) of the same section, the general data protection
Hungary shall exercise the responsibilities and powers laid down in this Decree for the supervisory authority
in the General Data Protection Regulation and e
exercised by the Authority as defined by law.
This decision is based on Articles 80-81 of the Act. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 60 (1).
The decision is based on Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final upon notification of the decision.
The Ákr. § 112 and § 116 (1), and Art. Pursuant to Section 114 (1) a
There is an administrative remedy against the decision.
***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (11)
the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. 2016 on Civil Procedure
CXXX. Act (hereinafter: Pp.) - the Kp. Applicable pursuant to Section 26 (1) - Section 72 provides for legal representation in a case falling within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Kp. Section 39 (6)
unless otherwise provided by law, the date of filing of the application
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of an administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter referred to as the Customer's legal representative pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b) of the E-Administration Act
obliged to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The
Information on the simplified lawsuit and the possibility to request a hearing can be found in the CC.
Section 77 (1) - (2) and Section 124 (1) and (2) (c) and (5), respectively
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 44 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee is
Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party instituting the proceedings.
If the Applicant does not duly prove the fulfillment of the required obligation, the Authority shall
considers that it has failed to fulfill its obligations within the prescribed period. The Ákr. According to § 132, if the debtor a
6

the final decision of the competent authority has not been complied with, it shall be enforceable. The Authority
decision of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), the communication becomes final. The Ákr. The Ákr. Under Section 133, enforcement is the decision, unless otherwise provided by law or government decree
ordering authority. The Ákr. Section 134 of the Enforcement - if law, government decree
or in the case of a municipal authority, the decree of the local government does not provide otherwise - the
carried out by a state tax authority. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (7) in the decision of the Authority
to perform a specific act, conduct or tolerate a specific act
the Authority shall enforce the decision with regard to the standstill obligation.
Budapest, June 26, 2019

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

7

