 
 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

 

REPRIMAND 

 

TO: University Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS Foundation 
Trust (UHDB) 

OF: Uttoxeter Road 
       Derby 
       DE22 3NE  

 

 

1.1 The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
reprimand to UHDB in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK General 
Data Protection Regulation in respect of certain infringements of the UK 
GDPR.   
 
The reprimand 
 
1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to UHDB in 
respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 5 (1)(f) which states personal data shall be processed in a 

manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures (‘integrity and 
confidentiality’).   

 
1.3 The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
1.4. UHDB is a hospital trust which was created following the merger of 
the Derby Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and Burton Hospitals 
NHS Foundation Trusts in July 2018. UHDB comprises of five hospitals 
which are situated in Burton, Derby, Tamworth and Lichfield. The alleged 
infringement was first detected at The Florence Nightingale Community 
Hospital in Derby.  
 
1.5. UHDB routinely process patient (data subjects) referrals for 
outpatient appointments containing personal data including health data, 
which is considered special category data. The referrals are received by 
UHDB from General Practitioners (GP’s) via an electronic referral system 

 

1 

(e-RS). Referrals are intended to be processed within a nationally set 
timeframe. The maximum wait time for non-urgent, consultant-led 
treatments is 18 weeks from the day the appointment is booked. 
 
1.6. On 6 September 2019, UHDB was informed by NHS England of an 
issue with e-RS whereby after 180 days had passed, referrals dropped off 
the worklist. Staff were still able to retrieve the referral from e-RS and 
readd to the worklist. However, if the referral remained on e-RS for over 
550 days the information was lost to the hospital. NHS England provided 
guidance to UHDB on ‘A Guide to using NHS e-RS data extracts to identify 
unactioned appointments more than 180 days old’ and the ‘Management 
of appointment slots’. Staff were then provided with guidance on how to 
manage their drop offs from the worklist using an internally generated 
report which was shared with each medical team. 
 
1.7. UHDB explained that as this was considered to be a routine task, no 
specific training was provided to staff. The internal report which was 
generated as a result of this issue was emailed to relevant teams and 
marked as ‘Important’. The report was originally only available to 
supervisors, however in some cases this task was delegated to staff. The 
process involved manually reinstating the referrals back onto the e-RS 
worklist recording the best action that fitted that patient's scenario.  
 
1.8. The total number of data subjects affected by this incident was 
4,768. 4,199 of those data subjects had their referrals delayed which had 
the potential to cause distress and inconvenience. The remaining 569 
data subject’s referrals were not actioned for so long their data 
disappeared from e-RS. Some data subjects had to wait for over two 
years for medical treatment to be arranged. 
 
1.9. To put this in context UHDB processes 1.7 million referrals per year. 
However, the investigation found that UHDB failed to have appropriate 
organisational measures in place to prevent the accidental loss of 
personal data. As this involves the processing of special category data 
UHBD should have ensured extra measures were put in place.  
 
1.10. The investigation found UHDB failed to implement a formal process 
or apply a suitable level of security when processing special category data 
in relation to the processing of referrals on e-RS. The use of email and 
reliance on staff to manually reinstate referrals did not provide an 

 

2 

effective system or adequate protection which may have prevented the 
loss of personal data.  
 
1.11. Following the incident, UHDB has reviewed the Trust’s Privacy 
Impact Assessment and Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) 
register and can find that no risk assessment has ever been carried out in 
relation to the handling of drop offs of referrals. Had this been carried out 
UHDB may have identified and been able to minimise any data protection 
risks which may have prevented the loss of personal data.  
 
1.12. UHDB stated the alleged infringement had occurred due to staff 
failing to follow all the manual steps recorded in a Standing Operating 
Procedure (SOP) and that this had been occurring since January 2020. 
However, the investigation found prior to a SOP being created the process 
in place involved staff receiving an emailed instruction informing them of 
the drop offs. This would not be considered an effective way of managing 
reinstatement of referrals.  
 
1.13. Furthermore, UHDB failed to have any formal oversight in place to 
ensure referrals were being effectively managed and reinstated onto the 
worklist.  
 
Remedial steps taken by UHDB 
 
1.14. The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial 
steps taken by UHDB in the light of this incident. In particular;  
 

•  UHDB conducted a full internal investigation and an external review.  

 

•  UHDB has attempted to contact all affected data subjects. Where 

possible all data subjects have been added to the list and 
appointments are being actioned appropriately.  
 

•  UHDB has created a new fully documented SOP which has been 

shared with the relevant staff. 
 

•  The process has now been centralised and a robotic process 

automation (RPA) has been introduced which will eliminate human 
error and speed up the process. 
 

 
 
 

 

3 

Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
1.15 Taking into account all the circumstances of this case including the 
remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to 
UHDB in relation to the  infringements of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
1.16 The Commissioner recommends that UHDB should take certain steps 
to ensure its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular reference to 
article 5 (1)(f) of the UK GDPR, the following steps are recommended: 
 

1.  Continue to provide any necessary support to help mitigate any 

potential detriment to the affected data subjects where applicable. 
 

2.  Assess any new processes and procedures that have been put in 

place as a result of this incident and continue to monitor these over 
a period of time to ensure that they are effective and to prevent 
another occurrence of this incident in the future. 
 

3.  Ensure the learning from any breach is shared across the 

organisation - not just the departments where breaches have 
occurred - to embed lessons learnt from any breach incidents 

 
 
 

 

4 

