 

 

 
 

 

                

               

 
Athens, 05-07-2018

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/3435/07-05-2018
  

 

 

     

 

 
GREEK EMPIRE

 

 
PRINCIPLE OF PROTECTION OF E OMEN

 

 

 
OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER

 
 

                         

A P O F A S I NO. 40/2018
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
(Department)
 

 
The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Department at its headquarters on Wednesday 14-02-2018 following the invitation of its President,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
following the meeting from 06-12-2017, in order to examine the case that

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
refers to the history of the present. The Deputy President, George, was present

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Bazalexis, obstructing the President of the Authority, Constantos Menoudakos, and the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
alternate members Panagiotis Rontogiannis, as rapporteur, Charalambos Tsiliotis

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
and Grigorios Tsolias, in replacement of the regular members Anton ou Symvonis,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Spy donos Vlachopoulos and Charalambou Anthopoulos respectively, who, although

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
they were only summoned in writing, they did not attend due to obstruction. At the meeting

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
attended, by order of the President, George Roussopoulos and Leon das Roussos,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
expert scientists - auditors as assistant rapporteur. He also attended, at his command

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
President, and Irini Papageorgopoulou, an employee of the Administrative Department of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Authority, as secretary.

 

 

 

 
No. was submitted to the Authority. prot. G/EIS/871/03-02-2017 complaint a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
according to the COOK AND GRILL branch office

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
FOCUS SERVICES SOLE PERSON PRIVATE EQUITY COMPANY

 

 

 

 

 

 
with d.t. "Cook & Grill" (hereafter "processor"), within Camp F,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
has installed a video surveillance system without meeting the legal requirements

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
operating conditions, through which workers are monitored

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
while the image is also transmitted to the stores of our processor in Gerakas

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
and Pallini.

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel.: 210-6475600, Fax: 210-6475628, contact@dpa.gr, www.dpa.gr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
-1-

 

 

Following this complaint, the Authority carried out on 09-15-2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on-site inspection at the premises of our processor, in accordance with the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19 items h' of Law 2472/1997. The check was carried out at the central store
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

residence of the person in charge on the street ..., in Gerakas, by the employees of the Department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Auditors of the Authority's Secretary Georgios Roussopoulos and Leon da Rousso (hereinafter
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"control group"), after the no. prot. C/EX/6639/15-09-2017 his order
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

President of the Authority.
 

 

 

Prior to carrying out this on-site inspection, the register was examined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of notifications kept by the Authority, where no notification was found for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data processing through a video surveillance system.
  

 

 

 

 

The control was sudden, without prior notification of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

let's edit. In order to conduct it, in addition to the on-site research, it was carried out
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dialogic discussion with A, who, although initially absent, came to the site,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after being informed by the staff of the store, stating that yes o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrator of I.K.E. and essentially the owner of the business.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

After the completion of the on-site audit, the audit team submitted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Start it with no. prot. C/EIS/6743/20-09-2017 conclusion of the audit (hereinafter "Conclusion").
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As stated in the Finding and recorded in the findings:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
• The video surveillance system is not limited to entry and exit areas or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the treasury o, but covers additional workplaces where they move almost
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exclusively employees.
 

 

 
• The video surveillance system includes cameras that monitor the premises
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

table seats.
 

 
• The video surveillance system also receives an image from the public street outside
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the store's central entrance without being limited to space
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

close to e sodo.
 

 

 

 
• Let the controller administrator have the ability to monitor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the images in real time, remotely, through his mobile phone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone.
 

 
• Our editor has posted two boards for his information
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

common at the shop entrances, but they do not contain the required items
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data, according to guide 1/2011.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

-2-

 


• The controller has not submitted to the Authority a notification of art
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to a video surveillance system.
 

 

 

 
• According to the statement of the manager of the company in the rest
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

branches have cameras installed, but he doesn't have access either
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

knows the elements in detail, as the systems are different for each
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

shop. Regarding the employee's complaint, he stated that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for a "problem" employee who is no longer employed at the branch
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inside Camp F.
 

 

 

 

The person responsible for processing, then, with no. prot. C/EX/8114/13-11-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2017 document of the Authority was only summoned to a hearing before the Authority at the session
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of 06-12-2017 to provide further clarifications and express his views on the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject. Along with the summons, the above Opinion was served and requested as follows
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ten days before the call, to submit a description of the user
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

of the video surveillance system at the branch office in Camp F, in order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

includes visual material from the system monitor, from where o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to obtain the range of each camera.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Attorney Eleftherios attended the meeting of 06-12-2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Theodorellis, with AMDSA ..., who verbally presented the views of the person in charge.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our processor then received a deadline and filed it on time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with no. prot. G/EIS/9078/15-12-2017 memo.
  

 

 

 

 

In this memo, the data controller briefly supports the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The company is no longer active. It started operating in December 2015
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

but due to financial difficulties it is no longer active, but unable to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dissolved or liquidated due to debts. Because of this situation and as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they closed the restaurant and the branches, the person in charge took no action
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compliance with the Authority's recommendations.
  

 

 

 

 

 

The video surveillance system was installed for the purpose of our protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persons and goods and for the purpose of ensuring hygiene rules as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

delinquent behaviors of employees or customers were observed. The company ASU, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as mentioned in the conclusion, he undertook the placement, placing two
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

signs, assuring the person in charge that this is sufficient for its proper operation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

shop. The irregularities found during the inspection are the result of ignorance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the person responsible for the institutional framework.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-3-

 



Finally, regarding the branch within the F camp he claims that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is a matter of fact that there has never been a video surveillance system in it.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

With the memorandum, other evidence is also provided to prove the difficulty
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

financial status of the representative of the person in charge.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By visiting the website https://www.cookandgrill.gr/ after the deposit
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the memo of the person in charge of processing, it was established that the Geraka stores,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pallinis and Amarous are still active with the same distinction but with other
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a company ("COOK AND GRILL PIPERESIES ESTIASIS IKE" with registered office...).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

After checking by G.E.M.H. with these elements, the company "C.G.C.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDIVIDUAL FOCUS SERVICES
 

 

 

PRIVATE EQUITY
 

 

COMPANY" with date of incorporation on 09/04/2017.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file and referring to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the session of 06-12-2017, after hearing the rapporteur and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clarifications of the assistant rapporteurs, who then left before the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conference and decision-making, and after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW

 

 

 

 

 
1. According to article 2 par. a' of Law 2472/1997 and recitals 14-17
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
in accordance with Directive 95/46/EC, audio and video data, if

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
refer to persons, constitute personal data.

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. The storage and reading of a facial image, which is collected by a system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
video surveillance, which operated permanently, continuously or at regular intervals,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
in a closed or open place of gathering or passage of persons, recommends

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
processing of personal data in whole or in part

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
automated within the meaning of articles 2 par. d' and 3 par. 1 Law 2472/1997.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. Basic condition, according to article 4 par. 1 of Law 2472/1997, for the legality of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
let us process personal data with the observance of proportionality, under

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
meaning that the collected data must be necessary and convenient for him

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
intended purpose, which should not have been achieved by milder

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
inside. Furthermore, the

 

 

 
data processing

 

 

-4-

 

 
image through system

 

 

video surveillance, for the purposes stated by the person in charge, can be relied upon
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

only in the provision of no. 5 par. 2 e' of Law 2472/1997 "The processing is highly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 ngi for the notification of the legal interest pursued by the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processed by the third party or third parties to whom the data is shared and under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the condition that this clearly overrides their rights and interests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of persons who carry the data and the fundamentals are not affected
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their liberties".
 

 

4. According to article 5 of no. 1/2011 The Authority's guide for use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance systems for the protection of persons and goods, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legality of our processing is examined in the context of the purpose pursued by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responsible for our processing and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, which a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

requires video surveillance systems to be convenient and necessary in relation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the intended purpose, which should not be achieved with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

milder means (articles 4 and 5 of Law 2472/1997). Affordability and necessity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of video surveillance is assessed based on the risk that the person in charge of processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wants to deal with in relation to the intended purpose.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. Furthermore, the installation points of the cameras and the way of receiving the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must be identified in such a way that the data collected does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more than is absolutely necessary to fulfill the purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of our processing and that the fundamental rights of the persons who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are located in the area that is being monitored and that this order is not violated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

could be seen as a "legitimate expectation of a certain degree of protection of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

privacy" in a specific area.
 

 

 

 

 

6. Also, according to article 7 of no. 1/2011 Guide, the system should not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to be used for the surveillance of employees within the workplaces,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

except in special exceptional cases in which this is justified by the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nature and working conditions and is necessary for the protection of health and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the safety of employees or the protection of additional workplaces (e.g.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

military factories, banks, high-risk facilities). For example,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in a typical business office space, video surveillance should be limited
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in entry and exit areas, without monitoring specific rooms
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

offices or corridors. Exceptions may be specific spaces, such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

treasury or areas with safes, electromechanical equipment, etc., under the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

condition that the cameras focus on the property they are protecting and not on their premises
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-5-

 

workers. Also, in special areas, such as areas with electromechanical ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

facilities the shift manager or the safety manager may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

track in real time
 

 

 

 

the operators of high machinery
 

 

 

 

risk, in order to intervene immediately if an incident occurs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sure let's
  

7. Also, in accordance with article 19 par. 2 of no. 1/2011 Let's guide, cameras
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are allowed to be placed at the entrance and exit points of the stores, at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cash desks and money storage areas, in goods warehouses, while,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to article 19 par. 4 of our Guide, it is prohibited to operate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of cameras in places of rest and recreation, in the testing rooms, in the toilets and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the areas where store employees work and is not accessible to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public.
 

8. According to article 12 of no. 1/2011 Guide let, before a person enters the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

within the range of the video surveillance system, the processor must
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informs, in a visible and comprehensible way, that he is about to enter a space that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

videotaped. To this end, they must: a) be posted in a sufficient number and prominently
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

place clearly visible signs, where the person will be written on his behalf
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

where the video recording is made (responsible for editing), the purpose, as well as the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

person with whom the interested parties can contact to exercise them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights that Law 2472/1997 recognizes in the data subject.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9. As stated in article 10 of no. 1/2011 Let us guide, the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processor is obliged to notify the Authority of the installation of the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance before the start of our processing, in accordance with article 6 of n.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997.
 
 

10. In the present case, taking into account the elements of the file, it appears
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The following:
 

 

 
• The allegation in the memo of the person in charge of our processing for non-functioning a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of cameras in the branch within the F camp is not documented with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no way and it contradicts what is noted in the conclusion.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
• The video surveillance system found to be operating on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

premises of the person in charge has not been notified to the Authority, and therefore
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there was a violation of Article 6 of Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-6-

 


• The video surveillance system in question does not meet the legal requirements
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which are set in articles 7, 8, 12 and 19 of no. 1/2011 Guide of the Authority, since
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there were cameras in the workplace, without being justified by nature and them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

working conditions Also cameras were taking pictures from the table seats
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

restaurant, and no signs were posted to inform the public
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the video surveillance system.
 

 

 

 

 

 
• Therefore, it is concluded that the fundamental requirements for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legality of any collection and processing of personal data,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which the provisions of articles 4, 5 and 11 of Law 2472/1997 set.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
• The processor operation seems to be now in standard
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inactivity, although the two facilities appear to be used by three
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a company with a similar distinctive title, which was established on 4-9-2017 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

before the on-site inspection was carried out on 15-9-2017.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
• The data provided by our processor (individual invoice
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2016, marital status data) are not sufficient for documentation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

financial difficulty of the company.
 

 

 

 

 

Taking into account the above findings, and in view of their gravity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violations found, the Authority unanimously considers that it should be imposed on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responsible for the processing provided for in article 21 par. 1 item b' of n.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997 sanction referred to in the operative part of the present and the suspended
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proportional to the number and gravity of the violations.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
FOR THOSE REASONS

 

 

 

 

The Authority taking into account the above:
  

 

 

 

 

 

It imposes, based on articles 19 par. 1 item f and 21 of Law 2472/1997, at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"COOK AND GRILL RESTAURANT SERVICES SINGLE PERSON
 

 

 

 

 

 

PRIVATE
 

CAPITAL COMPANY" fine of five thousand (5,000) euros for the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

described violations of Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-7-

 


 

 
The Secretary

 

 
 

 
Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

 

 
 

 
The Deputy President

 

 

 

 

 
George Batzalexis

 

 

 

 

-8-

 

