The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

Dealing with risks
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection declares,
how it works in data protection law

Munich, May 30, 2022

Dealing with risks is not always easy. This is also the case in data protection law. In order to
Bavarian public authorities still have risks when processing personal data
easier to track down and cope with, the Bavarian State Commissioner for the
data protection its findings on this topic in a new guide
summarized.

The paper "Risk analysis and data protection impact assessment" presents the method and construction
stones of a data protection risk analysis, explains the development of technical
organizational measures and provides practical advice for carrying out risk analyzes
lyse. The paper attaches particular importance to the idea of scaling: risk analyses
do not always have to be complex; depending on the occasion, various "expansion
fen” possible. This is illustrated using several concrete use cases.

The new 82-page guide is just the core of a comprehensive
information package on the subject of "risks in data protection". Included in this package
in particular a set of forms that guide the implementation of risk analyses
and should support proper documentation. The already existing one
"Toolbox" will be added to in the future.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: “The information I offer also transfers smaller state authorities
and local authorities are able to adequately deal with data protection risks. It contains work
witnesses that lead to a structured and systematic approach. The use of
These tools are explained using numerous examples. Anyone who tries them will find
that a risk analysis is not a theoretical glass bead game, but a very concrete
ten benefits.”

Like the other elements of the information package, the new orientation guide can be accessed
can be downloaded free of charge from the website https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de in the “DSFA” section.
will load.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
bound by instructions.

 The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

