GZ: DSB-D485.000/0001-DSB/2018 from 9.7.2018

 

[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and email addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc., as well as
their initials and abbreviations may be abbreviated for reasons of pseudonymization
and/or changed. Obvious spelling, grammar and punctuation errors
have been corrected.]

 

For the same GZ and with the same date, there is a notice in the category "Warning Notice"
issued.

 

RECOMMENDATION

 

The data protection authority speaks on the occasion of the consultation procedure pursuant to Art. 36

DSGVO, initiated by the application of Dr. Tobias Q*** (intervener) from 06/08/2018,

regarding an intended processing of data (recording and short-term

Storage of videos by means of a video camera attached to the windscreen of a vehicle)

the following recommendation:

 

 

 The intended processing of data may not be carried out.

Legal basis: Article 5 (1) (c), Article 36 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

(General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR), OJ No. L 119 p. 1; §§ 1 and 18 et seq

Data Protection Act (DSG), Federal Law Gazette I No. 165/1999 as amended.

 

 

REASONS FOR THIS RECOMMENDATION

A. Facts and Findings:

With a letter dated June 8th, 2018, the intervener notified the data protection authority in accordance with Art. 36

GDPR consulted, since the data protection

Impact assessment according to Art. 35 GDPR shows that the intended

Processing of data (recording and short-term storage of videos using the

video camera mounted on the windscreen of a car) pose a high risk.

Specifically, in the present case, the attached video camera is its

continuously deletes the recordings made at an interval of 60 seconds. Continuous

only the 60 seconds before and after an accident are saved, which the

video camera by the vibration of the accident and/or by operating an emergency

button on the dashboard.

As a justification, the intervener states in his data protection impact assessment that

that the processing of the data is to protect the legitimate interests of the person responsible

he follows. The intervener comes, however, in particular with regard to the before the entry into force

GDPR issued case law (e.g. VwGH Ro 2015/04/0011) to the conclusion that the

intended processing results in a high risk for data subjects.

Evidence assessment: These findings result from the procedural application.

B. In legal terms it follows

In the decision of the Administrative Court of September 12, 2016, already cited by the intervener,

Zl. Ro 2015/04/0011, this came to the conclusion that the registration of a

Data application in the form of persistent storage of image data by one in one

Vehicle-mounted video camera was to be rejected.

It can be inferred from the facts on which this decision is based that the

Storage of the image data in encrypted form is overwritten every 60 seconds

would. Only when there is a strong shock or when an “SOS button” is pressed

(legible) storage of the image data for a maximum period of 90 seconds. To

the legal situation in force at that time according to §§ 1 para. 2 and 7 para. 3 DSG 2000 set the

Admissibility of data use presupposes that the resulting interventions in the

Fundamental right to data protection only to the extent necessary and with the least risk

available funds and that the principles of § 6 DSG 2000

be respected. The VwGH justified the rejection with the fact that due to the

a proportionality test should be carried out in the provision shown and that

Video recording system due to the possibility of storing the image data through

Pressing the "SOS button" at any time and thus apparently without restrictions

could. For this reason alone, this system is not considered the mildest means within the meaning of

Section 1 (2) and Section 7 (3) DSG 2000 can be seen.

The case to be assessed is also about video surveillance, with the

Image data is also overwritten every 60 seconds. A difference to

The facts stated above only exist with regard to the duration of the actually permanent

saved recording, since in the present case it is 30 seconds longer

video sequence is saved.

§ 1 para. 2 DSG is still valid unchanged.

According to Article 5 (1) (c) GDPR, the principles of the GDPR also provide that

personal data appropriate and relevant to the purpose and to what is necessary for the

The purposes of processing must be limited to what is necessary ("data minimization").

According to this provision, an examination has to be carried out to determine whether a

Restriction to what is necessary for the purposes of processing. To that extent

can due to the unchanged scope of § 1 DSG as well as due

of the new legal situation according to the GDPR, the above-cited decision of the Administrative Court

assessment of the case in question.

Because pressing the emergency button also saves the image data

triggers cannot be said to be limited to what is necessary

is limited, especially since the emergency button can be pressed at any given time

could and thus a permanent storage of the image data even without an accident

could happen.

According to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f GDPR, the processing is lawful if it is used to protect

the legitimate interests of the person responsible or a third party, provided that

not the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject who

Protection of personal data prevail, especially when it is

the data subject is a child.

It can be inferred from recital 47 of the GDPR that, in particular, if

personal data are processed in situations where a data subject

reasonably does not have to expect further processing that interests and

The fundamental rights of the data subject outweigh the interests of the person responsible

could. In this respect, the question of the lawfulness of the processing would have to be assessed

to carry out a proportionality test within the meaning of Article 6 (1) (f) GDPR.

However, people who take part in road traffic do not reasonably have to do so

reckon that their personal data, and this indisputably includes those associated with the

planned processing, are processed in this way.

It cannot be said that storing image data using

Video cameras mounted in vehicles are now common practice in road traffic

is equivalent to.

In this respect, the intended processing also appears with regard to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f

GDPR not justified.

According to Art. 36 Para. 2 GDPR, the above recommendation was to be issued.

Apart from that, in the sense of the above statements, the attached

To issue a warning in accordance with Article 36 (2) in conjunction with Article 58 (2) (a) GDPR.

 

