Furniture company set for fine
Date: 11-06-2019
Decision
Private companies
Police report
Supervision / self-management case
Basic principles
The Danish Data Protection Authority has reported IDdesign A/S to the police and fined the company DKK 1.5 million for failure to delete information about approx. 385,000 customers.
In autumn 2018, the Danish Data Protection Authority paid an inspection visit to IDdesign, where, among other things, looked at whether the company had set deadlines for deleting the customers' information and whether the deadlines were adhered to.
No deletion deadlines
Prior to the inspection visit, IDdesign had sent an overview of the systems that the company uses to process personal data. IDdesign stated in this connection that an older system is still used in some IDEmøbler stores, which has otherwise been replaced by a newer system in the other stores, and that the old system processes information about approx. 385,000 customers' name, address, telephone number, e-mail and purchase history. During the inspection visit, IDdesign also stated that there are no deletion deadlines set in this system, which is why personal data in the old system has never been deleted.
A fine is therefore recommended
It appears from the data protection regulation that personal data must be stored so that it is not possible to identify the data subjects for a longer period of time than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data in question is processed.
IDdesign has not dealt with when personal data in the old system is no longer necessary for the purposes for which it is processed, and thus has not determined which deadlines must apply for deleting the personal data processed in the system.
The Norwegian Data Protection Authority therefore finds that IDdesign has not complied with the data protection regulation's requirement for deletion, as the company has processed the personal data longer than necessary.
If you want to know more
You can read the actual statement in the case here.
You can read the Norwegian Data Protection Authority's guidance text on deletion here.
Journalists can contact the Danish Data Protection Authority's press officer Anders Due (40 41 30 23 / ad@datatilsynet.dk)