Taskforce Facebook fan pages











March 18, 2022










Short report on data protection compliance

the operation of Facebook fan pages

taking into account the telecommunications

Telemedia Data Protection Act (TTDSG), the judgment of the OVG Schleswig dated
November 25, 2021 (Az. 4 LB 20/13) and the current technical implementation

‐ Version 1 (version for the 103rd DSK session) ‐






Page 1 of 40





I

contents
A. Introduction ..................................................... .................................................. ........................................ 3
B.
Established data processing and processes ................................................ ............................ 4
C. Legal assessment ................................................ .................................................. ..................... 6
Compatibility with the TTDSG ................................................ .................................................. ..... 7
1. Applicability of the TTDSG ............................................ .................................................. ....... 7
2. Obligations from § 25 TTDSG for operators of Facebook fan pages ................................................. 7
3.
Consent requirement according to § 25 TTDSG ............................................ ................................. 7
4. Exceptions according to § 25 Para. 2 TTDSG ........................................ ................................................ 7
5. Effective consent in accordance with Section 25 (1) TTDSG i. In conjunction with Art. 4 No. 11 and Art. 7 GDPR. 11
II. Compatibility of the processing of personal data for statistics (so-called Insights) with the
GDPR. .................................................. .................................................. ....................................... 15
1. Responsibility under data protection law........................................ ................................ 15
2. Personal reference of the processing by means of cookies ........................................ ..................... 17
3.
Lack of legal basis ................................................ .................................................. .. 17
4. Further obligations of the fan page operators ........................................ ................ 18
D. Third-country transfer ................................................ .................................................. ..................... 20
E
Result ................................................. .................................................. ...................................... 20
F. Appendix ..................................... .................................................. ....................................... 21
I
Appendix 1: Documentation process of a Facebook login and essential
Intermediate steps ..................................... .................................................. ....................... 21
II. Appendix 2: Documentation of a Facebook usage without registration and essential
Intermediate steps ..................................... .................................................. ....................... 31
III.
Appendix 3: Text rendering of the general cookie banner before login: ...................... 35
IV
Appendix 4: The setting options for operators of a Facebook fan page........................ 37
V. Appendix 5: Facebook Cookie Policy ........................................ ....................................... 38











Page 2 of 40

A

introduction

With its judgment of June 5, 2018, the ECJ decided within the framework of a preliminary ruling that
Operators of so-called Facebook fan pages together with Facebook under data protection law
are responsible (Az. C-210/16, "Wirtschaftsakademie"). The judgments of the
referring BVerwG of September 11, 2019 (Az. 6 C 15.18) and the OVG Schleswig (Az. 4 LB 20/13)
from November 25, 2021. The Schleswig Higher Administrative Court has the legal and factual situation of 2011
based on. However, the findings and legal assessments are - with some exceptions - after
as before relevant, e.g. because the cookies mentioned in the judgment will continue to be used.

The DSK had taken the judgment of the ECJ as an opportunity to take action within the framework of a
established task force with questions about the legal compliance of the operation of a fan page
too busy. Results of the task force were e.g. through the publications of the DSK from 6.
June
https://www.datenschutzkonferenz‐
online.de/media/en/20180605_en_fb_fanpages.pdf) and April 1, 2019
(available at:
https://www.datenschutzkonferenz‐
online.de/media/dskb/20190405_positionierung_facebook_fanpages.pdf) to the public
directed.

(available

under:

2018

The aim of this short report is to give the DSK an overview of a current legal assessment of the operation
from fan pages. The reason for the judgment of the OVG Schleswig, which has existed since
December 2021 applicable Telecommunication Telemedia Data Protection Act (TTDSG) and the
previous findings of the task force taken into account. The short report is given within the framework of a
Technical check established current implementation status of Facebook fan pages.

The brief report focuses primarily on the storage of information in the
Terminal equipment of the end users and access to information that is already in the
terminals are stored. The OVG Schleswig has - on the basis of the
Initial decision of the ULD - in particular on two cookies, namely on the datr and on the
c_user cookie. The latter is used - in addition to the datr cookie - only for previously registered and logged in users
Users are set and read out, while non-registered or non-registered users
Users who are not logged in will use the datr cookie.

Another cookie that is taken into account in this report is the fr cookie (see
below).

The processes and processing of personal data that were carried out within the scope of this report
are decisively considered, are therefore the following:

I. Saving and reading a cookie and subsequent processing of personal data
Data in the form of linking usage data with previously registered data
users
About
Statistics (so-called insights) using the c_user cookie


deposited as part of the registration process

II. Setting and reading a cookie and subsequent processing of personal data
data etc. in the form of linking the usage data to statistics (so-called insights) by means of
of the datr cookie


III. Setting and reading a cookie and subsequent processing of personal data
Data in the form of linking usage data for profiling purposes and
Advertising using the fr cookie and others





Page 3 of 40

B.

Identified data processing and processes

Fan pages can (depending on the configuration by the site operator) also without prior
Registration is called and the content available there can therefore also be read by people
who are not registered users of Facebook. Depending on whether users are on a page
access and read after they have logged in with their account or without first logging in
to log in, different cookies are set and then read accordingly. If
a person who registers with Facebook and creates a Facebook account is assigned to the account
unique c_user cookie assigned. At this point, the c_user cookie is first set on the
end device of the users: inside, with which they created the account and subsequently
Basically on all other end devices that are used to log into Facebook. Call
Users, while they are logged in under their account, open a fan page automatically
the already existing c_user cookie is assigned to the logers on the server side and new
saved. For non-registered users or registered but not logged in users
users, the datr cookie is saved and read.

The following list is a summary of cookies that are set when you visit a fan page
are set regularly:1






1
Depending on the browser or device used and the question of whether a user: in Facebook
is logged in, additional cookies and web storage objects may be saved and read. State of
Accessed: February 2022.

Page 4 of 40





cookie
Surname

Validity Purpose (possibly presumptive)

c_user

1 year

Unique Facebook account number

datr

2 years

Unique identifier, used elsewhere by Facebook also for non‐
Members or non-registered site visitors set

fr

For example, 3 months is used to deliver ads and their

Measure and improve relevance.

Source: https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies/

ooh

5 years

Is only set if you log in with the "Only required cookies" option.
In this case, it is retained even after you log out!

presence

Current session Only held in the browser's main memory. Purpose unclear. Possibly for the

Status of Facebook messenger or chat?

locale

7 days

language preference. Unclear whether determined based on browser or Facebook
Account. Is set after logout

sb

2 years

saves
https://cookiedatabase.org/cookie/facebook/sb/)

information

to the

browsers

(Source:

Current session Unclear. Was only set once and temporarily

7 days

Width and height of the screen or browser window in pixels

1 year

unique
https://cookiedatabase.org/cookie/facebook/xs/)

session ID

(Source:

sfau

wd

xs



More detailed documentation can be found in the appendix to this brief report.







Page 5 of 40

C

Legal assessment

With the
When the TTDSG came into force on December 1, 2021, a new one came into effect at the same time
Telecommunications Act (TKG) and amendments to the Telemedia Act (TMG) in force. In the TTDSG
became the essential data protection regulations for telecommunications and telemedia services
bundled. Neither the TKG nor the TMG contain data protection regulations. The TTDSG has
etc. Effects on the very practical use of cookies and similar technologies.2

To differentiate between GDPR and TTDSG, reference is made to OH telemedia. From this:

According to Art. 2 Para. 1, the GDPR applies - with exceptions - to "the whole or part
automated processing of personal data as well as for non-automated
Processing personal data stored in a file system or
are to be saved". The ePrivacy Directive - and thus also the national implementation in the
TTDSG - aims according to Art. 1 Para. 1 and 2 and others. for an equivalent protection of the right to
privacy and confidentiality and aims at "detailing and supplementing" the
Provisions of the GDPR in relation to the processing of personal data in
field of electronic communication. As part of the telemedia offering, there is
Processes that only fall within the scope of one of the two regulatory matters.
For example, through the use of technologies, no personal data is collected
processed, only the specifications of the TTDSG must be observed, but not those of the GDPR.
Regularly, however, processes will be discussed, such as the use of
Cookies for tracking the behavior of users who also perform processing
personal data and thus the areas of application of both the TTDSG and
also the DS-GVO are opened. For this case, Art. 95 GDPR contains a collision rule.
Thereafter, data processing bodies will not have any additional obligations as a result of the GDPR
imposed, insofar as they are subject to special obligations specified in the ePrivacy Directive, which
pursue the same goal. This collision rule also applies to national ones
Implementation standards of the directive, such as the TTDSG. Therefore, the specific ones apply
Provisions of § 25 TTDSG take precedence over the provisions of the GDPR, insofar as
Storage and reading of information in terminal devices personal data
are processed. For the subsequent processing of personal data that
only made possible by reading this data from the end device and not by anyone
Special regulations are recorded, in turn the general specifications of the GDPR apply
note. The central standard of the TTDSG with reference to the technologies to be considered here
represents the regulation of § 25 TTDSG. § 25 TTDSG serves - differently than the regulations of the DS-
GMO - the protection of privacy and confidentiality when using
Terminal equipment, as guaranteed by Art. 7 GRCh. So end users will
protected against third parties storing information on their terminal equipment without authorization or
read and thereby violate your privacy".3

Since § 25 TTDSG implements the specifications of Art. 5 Para. 3 ePrivacy Directive into German law,
the same considerations for the delimitation of the national regulation to the GDPR. For the
The use of cookies means that the consent requirement according to § 25 TTDSG
regardless of whether the cookie contains personal data, e.g. B. in the form of a


2
3

See OH Telemedia, p. 3, with further information.
OH Telemedien, p. 5 f., w/w N.



Page 6 of 40

unique identification number, are stored or accessed
should".4

Obligations from § 25 TTDSG for operators of Facebook fan pages

Compatibility with the TTDSG
Applicability of the TTDSG

I
1.
The c_user cookie, dat_r cookie and fr cookie are pieces of information that are stored through access
on the end devices of the users: stored inside and accessed subsequently
becomes.
2.
The obligations from § 25 TTDSG apply to the operators of Facebook fan pages. at
Operators of Facebook fan pages are providers of telemedia in the sense of
of § 2 Para. 2 No. 1 TTDSG. In doing so, it meets - in addition to other obligations for providers of
Telemedia services, such as the obligation to provide an imprint in accordance with § 5 TMG - also
the obligation to access the fan page required by visiting the telemedia service
Information that is already stored in the terminal equipment and the storage of
information in the end devices of the users only if the
Requirements of § 25 TTDSG are met.
3.
According to § 25 Para. 1 TTDSG, the storage of information in the terminal equipment of the
End user: inside or accessing information already stored in the terminal equipment,
only permitted if the end users are based on clear and comprehensive information
have consented. If none of the exceptions from § 25 (2) TTDSG apply, it remains with this
Principle.

Consent requirement according to § 25 TTDSG

When calling up a fan page, the user's end devices on Facebook are different
Many cookies are stored and read, depending on whether the users are at this point in time as
member of the network are logged in or not. The difference consists essentially in
that the c_user cookie is used for logged-in users and non-members of the
network of the datr cookie. The decision of the OVG is based on these two cookies.
The tabular overview under B. shows that during the technical check of several fan pages
in February 2022 a total of eight additional cookies were set and read when a fan page was called up
will. The purposes of these cookies are only partially known. The fr cookie is used as evidence of the
Cookie policy used by Meta to deliver advertisements and their relevance
measure and improve. It has a storage time of 90 days.5
4.
There are two exceptions to the principle of requiring consent in Section 25 (2) TTDSG
intended. The first exception is aimed at providers of telecommunications services i. S
v. § 3 No. 1 TKG n. F. This is not considered in the present case. The second exception is addressed in the
Difference between the providers: within telemedia services according to § 2 Para. 2 No. 1 TTDSG.

Exceptions according to § 25 Para. 2 TTDSG

However, an exception according to Section 25 (2) No. 2 TTDSG does not apply. § 25 Para. 2 No. 2 TTDSG requires
exceptionally, no consent if the storage of information in the terminal equipment
or access to information already stored in the terminal is absolutely necessary

4
5

OH Telemedien, p. 9, w/w N.
See https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies.

Page 7 of 40



is, so that the provider of a telemedia service has a user expressly requested it
be able to provide telemedia service.

Regarding the criteria to be checked in this respect of the "expressly desired by the users
Telemedia service" and the related "absolute necessity" is referred to the
Guidance for providers:Referred to within telemedia services.6

The creation of Insights is not a telemedia service expressly desired by the user.

According to the OH Telemedia, the basic service7 is the service that is inseparable for the entire offer
is, in principle, than the "expressly desired by users".
significant
Telemedia Service" to view. That
each specific operator
Associated subpage in a social network, published by the operator
Content can be perceived and users may receive a relevant notice
Interaction with the content is enabled over the network. The latter can only be done to the full extent
be noticed, provided that the respective users are also registered on Facebook.

is in this case one

The measurement and analysis of usage data as part of the creation of Insights are not
Attributable to basic service. The Insights are provided for the operators of fan pages,
free range measurement tool that is otherwise used when operating a website outside of
Facebook largely through services such as Google Analytics or similar. is offered. One
User orientation in the sense that the functionality has an immediate additional benefit for the
brings users of fan pages, and should therefore be included in the basic service, is not
to recognize.8
a. c_user cookie
Both for the c_user and for the datr cookie can be used in other contexts
Find use cases that could lead to an exception according to Section 25 (2) TTDSG. If the
c_user cookie required for providing the basic service "social, interactive network".
is, in the relationship between Facebook users, the exception from Art. 25 Para. 2 No. 2 TTDSG applies.
In this respect, the cookie is a prerequisite for processing personal data on the basis of
of Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter b GDPR.

According to Meta, the c_user cookie serves e.g. for authentication and other purposes.



authentication

We use cookies to verify your account and to determine when you
are logged in so that we can make it easier for you to access the meta products and you do that
can provide suitable user experience and suitable functions.9


See there pp. 19 to 22.
6
S. OH Telemedia: "The basic services can regularly be excluded from the telemedia service category
7
derive Examples of categories are web shops, search engines,
Information pages from
Companies or public institutions, government portals, online banking, blogs, social networks,
called translation services. The basic service of a web shop is the sale of products. Basic service one
Search engine is that when you enter a search term, suitable websites are found on the internet and via
Hyperlinks are listed as search results.", p. 21.
8th
9

See OH Telemedien, p. 21 f.
Cookie Policy, https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies.

Page 8 of 40



From this information, in addition to the purpose of authentication, there are registered
Users: the other very abstractly formulated purposes, that access to meta products
facilitated and suitable user experiences and suitable functions can be provided.

The OVG has dealt very intensively with the c_user cookie and is ultimately in the
Essentially arrived at the following two statements:





"The linking of fan page calls and Facebook cookies made possible via the c_user cookie
Member saves Facebook in the profiles created about the member, which in turn
be used for advertising purposes." 10

"The creation of these statistics - means those within the scope of the Insights service by
Facebook created statistics about the use of fan pages - Facebook is in particular
possible due to the c_user cookie, since it is used to call up a fan page with the
Facebook members and the information already obtained about them
can be. […] Fan page operators receive the page statistics in Insights
aggregated and anonymous form, without the granting of a
corresponding order to Facebook. […] The creation of page statistics
serves the purpose of adapting the operation of a fan page to the users, d. H. the fan page
to make it more attractive. At the same time, these should enable Facebook to
to increase the advertising value of the network." 11

According to the findings of the court, the c_user cookie is used to create user profiles,
Page statistics about the use of fan pages and for advertising purposes.

The aforementioned purposes cannot be classified as functions that are used by users
are expressly requested or are attributable to the basic service.
b. datr cookie
Regarding the datr cookie, the OVG Schleswig states:

"However, it remains unclear what the function of this cookie is. According to the
[Note: Facebook], the datr cookie plays a central role in protecting the
social network and does not serve the purpose of disseminating targeted advertising."12

Meta's Cookie Policy does not apply to the datr cookie.

Meta has suggested in the past that the "datr" cookie could help false profiles
to filter out and prevent cyber attacks. If a browser within five minutes
visits hundreds of pages, that is a clear sign that the computer is being used by online criminals
had been hijacked. The data that the cookie collects would not be given to individuals
attributed to and could not be associated with them.13

On the other hand, the specification of the cookie corresponds to a typical cookie, such as it is used for
Profiling is used, which is the long-term and targeted tracking of behavior
individual users have as their goals.


10
11
12
13

OVG Schleswig, Urt. November 25, 2021, Az. 4 LB 20/13, p. 33.
OVG Schleswig, Urt. 25.11.2021, Az. 4 LB 20/13, ibid.
OVG Schleswig, Urt. November 25, 2021, Az. 4 LB 20/13, p. 59.
ZD-Aktuell 2015, 04886, see a. later judgment of the ECJ v. 06/15/2021, Case C-645/19.



Page 9 of 40

If the datr cookie is actually used solely to ensure the security of the social
network would be used, the exception under Section 25 (2) No. 2 TTDSG applies in this regard
however, only if the associated processes are required for this.

fr cookie

When evaluating the absolute necessity, the ones shown in the OH Telemedia are included
criteria to be considered. In particular, it must be checked whether the duration of the storage of the datr‐
Cookies and the associated possible access is necessary for the pursued purpose.
This is not the case with a storage period of 2 years. Therefore, the datr cookie in the
specific technical design itself for the purpose of fraud prevention as not necessary
be considered.
c.
In the Cookie Policy, under the heading Advertising, Recommendations, Insights and
Measurements, first the general note that cookies are used to enable those
Individuals who may be interested in those of companies and other organizations
advertised products, services or purposes, advertisements related to them
Show companies and organizations and make recommendations for them. As concrete
For example, it is explained below that the "fr" cookie is used to display advertisements
deliver and measure and improve their relevance. 14 Are used with the set cookies
Purposes, such as creating profiles and advertising, cannot do this either
under the exception according to § 25 Para. 2 No. 2 TTDSG. The playout of advertising is
not technically necessary to provide the service desired by the user - the display of the
Website www.facebook.com - to be able to provide. In this respect, additional reference is made to the relevant
Specifications of the EDSA on Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter b GDPR referred.15

The principle remains that it is necessary for storing and reading out the cookies during the visit
a fan page requires consent according to § 25 Para. 1 TTDSG.






Cookie Policy, https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies.
14
15
Guidelines 8/2020 on the targeting of social media users, p. 16 f. , par. 49, under reference to the
Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the context of the provision
of online services to data subjects, par. 18.

Page 10 of 40



5.
Valid consent according to § 25 Abs. 1 TTDSG i. In conjunction with Art. 4 No. 11 and Art. 7 GDPR
From the directly from the one displayed when calling up the website www.facebook.com
Consent banner shows that it is intended to use cookies when using Facebook pages
to use.





Further information on the use of cookies on the Facebook fan pages can be found in the cookie
Company policy (see https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies/). This results in
It is also clear that several cookies are used when using a Facebook fan page
will.

The BVerwG determined the following in its judgment of September 11, 2019:

"The OVG will have to check which data is collected when the fan page is called up for the
decision relevant time took place. Insofar as it arises from the use of
Facebook set cookies resulted in processing of personal data, the court will
between the case groups of Facebook members and those not registered on Facebook
Internet users have to distinguish. The processing of personal data would only be possible
lawfully, if the first group has effective consent to the collection and
subsequent processing existed and in the latter group for the collection
personal data had a legal basis and a possibly required one
briefing has been given."

This statement referred to the lawfulness of the processing at the time
personal data. However, it can since it relates to data processing
Page 11 of 40



with the set cookies refers to § 25 TTDSG. Since 12/01/2021 is in two
Steps to check whether first for setting the cookies and for the subsequent reading of the
Cookies a consent according to § 25 Abs. 1 TTDSG and secondly for the use of
Cookies, subsequent processing of personal data requires consent in accordance with Art. 6 Para. 1
GDPR is required. The Schleswig-Holstein Higher Administrative Court ruled on
11/26/2021 determined that the use of personal data from in the Facebook network
registered and registered persons is neither legally permitted, nor would the users have
and users consented to this. 16 § 25 Para. 1 S. 2 TTDSG refers in relation to the information of the
end user and consent to the GDPR. Therefore, the consent for the setting and
Read out cookies to make the same requirements as to data protection law
Consent according to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. a GDPR.

As already mentioned, there is now a consent banner on the Facebook website for
integrated the use of cookies. It cannot be clearly inferred from this that a
Consent according to § 25 TTDSG should be obtained. In the Meta Cookie Policy, which is im
consent banner is linked, there is also no express reference to § 25 TTDSG.
However, there is the following note:

"This policy explains how we use cookies and what choices you have
be available. Unless otherwise stated in this Policy, the
Data policy governing our processing of the data we collect via cookies."17

From the distinction made here between the use of cookies, for which the cookie
Directive applies, and the processing of the (personal) data collected via cookies for which
the data policy applies, it could be concluded that the consent banner refers to § 25 TTDSG
relates. Ultimately, however, it remains unclear for the users whether they have given their consent in accordance with § 25
Para. 1 TTDSG and/or consent according to Art. 6 Para. 1 Sentence 1 Letter a GDPR is requested.

The consent banner offers two options on the first level. It can be either "All" cookies
permitted" or via the "More options" button a second level can be opened on which
further options are available. If users are on the second level only
allow the necessary cookies, depending on whether the users of the website as
Facebook users: are logged in or not, set several cookies.18

Section 25 (1) sentence 2 TTDSG refers to both the end user and the
Formal and substantive requirements for consent to the GDPR. It is therefore decisive
the definition according to Art. 4 No. 11 GDPR. The other requirements for effective consent
result from Art. 7 and Art. 8 GDPR. For evaluating the effectiveness of a consent
According to § 25 Para. 1 Sentence 1 TTDSG, the same evaluation standards are to be applied as for a
Consent according to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. a GDPR.







See the press release of the court dated November 26, 2021, available at: https://www.schleswig‐
holstein.de/DE/Justiz/OVG/Presse/PI_OVG/2021_10_27_Ausbaubeitrag_hat_Bestand_kopie.html.
Cookie Policy, https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies/
Further details can be found in the documentation in the attachment.

Page 12 of 40

17
18



These legal requirements essentially result in the following test points for the
Assessment of the effectiveness of the consent:

time of consent,
extent to which the consent was informed,



 clear confirmatory action,


Voluntary consent, in particular no inadmissible influence on the user decision
(so-called nudging),

 revocation of consent,
 Consent for data processing by minors.



The information provided in advance in the consent banner meets the requirements of a
informed consent in accordance with Art. 4 No. 11 and Art. 7 Para. 3 S. 3 GDPR. When using a
Consent banners do not have to comprehensively display all information at the first level
will. However, on the first level, the affected person does not have to open additional windows
to provide the following information:

 specific purposes of processing,


if applicable, that individual profiles are created and with data from other websites
be enriched with comprehensive usage profiles,
provided that data is also processed outside the EEA and


 to how many responsible persons the data will be disclosed.



From Art. 7 Para. 3 S. 3 GDPR there is an additional obligation of the operator to protect affected persons
point out your right of withdrawal before you give your consent.

On the first level of the consent banner on Facebook web pages, only the ones before that
inserted screenshot given to the users. It will
Although three purposes mentioned. With these, however, there is not a sufficient degree of specificity.
In addition, there is no express reference to the creation and enrichment of individual user profiles
and data processing outside the European Economic Area (EEA). In addition
is about the use of cookies in general for Facebook products and by others
Company informed, however, the information is missing for how many Facebook products and by
like many other companies that use cookies. In addition, the sentence "There
you can also review or change your selection at any time.", not as a sufficient
Explicit reference to the right to revoke consent at any time in accordance with Art. 7 Para. 3
p. 1 GDPR.

The consent banner satisfies the requirement that the consent be voluntary in accordance with Art. 4
No. 11 GDPR not fulfilled. In Recital 42 GDPR it is explained that it is assumed
should be that the data subject has "voluntarily given their consent if they
Has real or free choice and is therefore able to refuse consent or
to withdraw without suffering any disadvantages". Users are therefore not allowed to make any significant
Have to put in extra effort if you don't want to give a declaration of consent. Below
of the text, you will find the two buttons labeled "More options"
and "Allow all cookies". By clicking on the "Allow all cookies" button
Users already give their consent on this first level of the consent banner.
Users only receive further information if they either click on a "cookie
Policy” named link or click the “More Options” button. Only on the second
level there is another button "Allow only necessary cookies". This is first
Page 13 of 40



Legally misleading, since there are no required cookies within the meaning of Section 25 (2) No. 2 TTDSG
Permission is required and these cookies are not excluded by users
be able. Second, due to the label of the button, users can't right now
conclude that they do not give their consent. There is also no way that
Simply close the consent banner on the first or second level in a different way to
to be able to continue using the website.

In connection with declarations of consent on websites, it can be observed that a
so-called nudging is operated. This is a methodical procedure that
Consciously influencing the behavior of users in their own interest. For example, is the
"Agree" option compared to "Reject" option made more conspicuous and the colors
are used according to the meanings assigned to them, e.g. "approval" in green
and text in bold and "Reject" in red or gray with small font.

Exactly this form of nudging about the color schemes is in the consent banner of Facebook
to recognize. While the "Allow all cookies" button due to the bold blue
background color catches the eye, the light gray More Options button is fairly inconspicuous
designed.


This means that it can be stated that the requirements for consent are not met and therefore
no effective consent according to Section 25 (1) TTDSG is obtained via the consent banner.







Page 14 of 40

Data Protection Responsibility

Compatibility of the processing of personal data for statistics (so-called Insights)

II.
with the GDPR.
1.
Joint responsibility exists according to Art. 26 Para. 1 Sentence 1 GDPR if two or more
Controllers jointly determine the purposes of and the means of data processing, i.e. they
must actually be able to influence the decision. The essential elements for the
joint responsibility between the fan page operator and Facebook (today Meta) has that
BVerwG summarized as follows:

21. […] The ECJ relies significantly on the consideration that the operator of a
Facebook maintained a fan page with the establishment of such a page on Facebook the
possibility on the computer or any other device of the person who creates his or her fan page
visited to place cookies, regardless of whether that person was on a Facebook
Account available (ECJ, judgment of June 5, 2018 loc.cit., para. 35). With this, the operator provides a
significant contribution to the processing of personal data of visitors to the fan page
(ECJ, judgment of June 5, 2018 loc.cit. para. 36). In addition, the from Facebook the
data created anonymous visitor statistics enable the operator in general,
to make its information offer as targeted as possible (ECJ, judgment of June 5th
2018 loc.cit. para. 37). For the affirmation of a data protection responsibility
not necessary that in the case of joint responsibility of several operators for
the same processing everyone has access to the personal data concerned
(ECJ, judgment of June 5, 2018 loc.cit. para. 38). 19

In its decision, the OVG Schleswig confirms the joint responsibility of the operator
the fan page in relation to the processing of personal data in connection with the
Use of Cookies. For the subsequent processing in the form of linking the
Usage data with the registered users as part of the registration process
stored data by means of c_user cookies, the court carries out:

"As for the purposes of the use of personal data relevant here, is
Crucially, the data processing for the purpose of creating Insights statistics
enables the plaintiff [note: business academy = fan page operator] to
To gain knowledge of certain characteristics of the visitors who appreciate their fan page or
who use their applications to provide them with more relevant content and features
to be able to develop that could be of greater interest to them (ECJ, judgment of 5.
June 2018 - C-210/16 -, Rn. 34, juris). By setting up the fan page, which with sufficient
Frequenting necessarily leads to the creation and provision of Insights statistics, has die
plaintiff
relevant in this respect
data processing.” 20

at least tacitly about the purpose of the

On the other hand, the OVG sees no responsibility for storing the link to this data
with the fan page call to create profiles and for advertising purposes.21 It is missing in this respect
In any case, in a joint decision about the purpose of the data processing. This
Data processing does not take place in the interests of the plaintiff and does not offer any advantages for the plaintiff.


19
20
21

Federal Administrative Court, ruling by 09/11/2019, Az. 6 C 15.18 (1 C 28.14).
OVG Schleswig, Urt. November 25, 2021, Az. 4 LB 20/13, p. 55.
OVG Schleswig, Urt. November 25, 2021, Az. 4 LB 20/13, p. 56.



Page 15 of 40

there is therefore a lack of objective starting points

It
tacit codecision by the plaintiff about these purposes of data processing. 22

for accepting at least one

However, the task force for Facebook fan pages still assumes that the operators: inside
a fan page a personal interest in the processing of the personal data of
Visitors: inside their fan page for advertising purposes, because only through this business model for them
free use of the service is enabled. The Facebook service is exclusively provided by
advertising funded. The court itself states that the data processing is for the purposes of
Profiling and for advertising purposes for the purpose of providing the telemedium. That's what it's called
Page 38 of the decision:

"The same applies to the registration data for a Facebook member
data used, which was already used for the purpose of profiling and for advertising purposes and
ultimately also for the purpose of providing a telemedia within the meaning of Section 12 (1) TMG
a. F. had been raised because they were previously involved in the financing and realization of the offer
served."

The so-called network effect also speaks for the interest of the operators of fan pages. This
states that the utility of a network increases when the number of participants increases.
Network effects thus have direct effects on the number of users
platform as well as the added value that the users receive through the use of the platform
arises. This applies equally to registered users, fan page operators and to
advertisers. Transferred to Facebook, the overall concept works, primarily because of the
Advertising network that finances and implements free use of Facebook
allows. Accordingly, it is precisely the network effect and the associated increased
Widespread effect and accessibility of interested target groups, the purpose of operating a
Facebook fan page are. The provision and improvement of this network is in turn the purpose
and Facebook business interest (meta). Thus, both Facebook and the track
Operators of fan pages for related, complementary purposes, as many interested parties as possible
to display the content of the operators, since this processing is mutual for both
Benefit grows.23

Even if the OVG in its determinations regarding the joint responsibility behind the
The case law of the ECJ and the BVerwG shown above can still apply for large
Parts of the processing operations by Facebook share responsibility with the fan page
operator with the company Meta. Largely unlit remained in the
Judgment of the OVG Schleswig the extensive problem of unregistered users of the
fan pages. In this regard, the ECJ had already explicitly pointed out that operators of
Fan pages even have increased responsibility here, because when you call up the fan page,
Personal data is also collected from users who are not themselves
Have a user account on Facebook. Also in the "Fashion-ID" procedure, the ECJ follows up on the question
of joint responsibility solely depends on the fact that the website operator Facebook
Setting and reading of cookies on the end devices of its users is possible.24 This is true
especially on the use of the datr cookie and the associated downstream processing
personal data.


22
23
24

OVG loc.cit., page 56, paragraph bb).
See Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR, para. 61.
ECJ, ruling by 29.7.2019, Az. C-40/17 "Fashion ID", Par 75 f.

Page 16 of 40



Personal reference of the processing by means of cookies

2.
The sense and purpose of the c_user cookie is to record the interactions of registered users
to be able to clearly assign a certain profile already created in Facebook. Upon registration
give users etc. their first and last name, place of residence; if necessary, contact details such as a
Mobile phone number and other personal data. Without a doubt, it is the
c_user cookie therefore, if only because of the association of the unique identifier with the
Registration data of the users: inside, around a personal date i. p.d. Art. 4 No. 1 GDPR.
Likewise, with regard to the datr and fr cookies, it can be assumed that a sufficient
Personal reference is to be assumed. Even if the information contained in the datr cookie is isolated and
taken by themselves, do not yet have sufficient personal reference, it comes to the question of
Personal reference always depends on whether the processing of a date in the context considers a
has personal reference. According to Art. 4 No. 1 GDPR, it is sufficient if "by means of attribution to
an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier"
a personal reference can be established.

Recital 36 shows that the normative processing in connection with cookies
from the protection of the GDPR and even explicitly refers to cookies:

"Natural persons may be given online identifiers such as IP addresses and
Cookie identifiers that his device or software applications and tools or protocols
provide, or other identifiers such as radio frequency identifiers assigned. This can
Leave traces that, in particular, in combination with unique identifiers and
other information received by the server can be used to create profiles
of individuals and to identify them."

If only because of the fact that when you call up a fan page and save as a result
or reading out the previously saved cookies at the same time - for technical reasons - the IP address of the
User: internally transmitted and processed, exists with regard to the c_user‐, the datr‐ and the fr‐
Cookies personal reference.
3.
Due to the joint responsibility, at least for the processing of insights
Operators of fan pages can prove a corresponding legal basis.

Lack of legal basis

Facebook itself writes about this in the so-called “page insights supplement regarding the person responsible”:

"Site operator: You should make sure that you also have a legal basis for the
processing of Insights data. In addition to the information that affected
Individuals provided by Facebook Ireland via the Page Insights information
you should identify your own legal basis, including yours, if any
pursued legitimate interests, the responsible person(s) on your side,
including
of the
contact details
Data protection officer (Article 13 para. 1 lit. a - d GDPR), if relevant."25

Contact details,

his/her

such as

the

For the operation of a fan page by a public body as part of public relations
come into consideration - not undisputed - neither Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter a nor Letter f GDPR. Provided
an applicability of Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter a GDPR is being considered, the above apply
Explanations under C.
I. 5. accordingly. Both public and non-public
Site operators: are - still - not based on the information available to them

25

See https://www.facebook.com/legal/terms/page_controller_addendum.

Page 17 of 40



able to carry out the necessary verification of legal conformity before admission
carry out a responsible processing. This applies e.g. B. also for a weighing of interests
within the framework of Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter f GDPR.

The legal basis of Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter e GDPR, which is to be primarily checked for public bodies
(in conjunction with the relevant national regulations), which are necessary for the exercise of
Public relations work is fundamentally an option, can in turn only go as far as
personal data also actually in own or joint responsibility exclusively
processed for public relations purposes. Further processing to
other purposes, such as the enrichment of advertising profiles, cannot be used by
be covered by this legal basis.
4.
As responsible persons, operators of fan pages are also obliged to comply with the principles of the
to comply with Art. 5 Para. 1 GDPR and to be able to demonstrate compliance with it. To the principles
in Art. 5 Para. 1 GDPR it counts, among other things, that personal data is lawfully processed,
processed in good faith and in a manner that is comprehensible to the person concerned
(Letter a), that they are collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and
may not be further processed in a manner incompatible with these purposes
(letter b).

Further obligations of fan page operators

Joint controllers are also obligated to enter into an agreement in transparent form
to determine which of them fulfills which obligation of the GDPR. Such an agreement must
According to Art. 26 Para. 2 Sentence 1 GDPR, the respective actual functions and relationships of the
joint controllers to data subjects due, d. H. especially
truthful, reflect.26

Sense and purpose of an agreement according to Art. 26 Para. 2 GDPR is first that the respective
Functions in the processing operation or the contributions to the processing of the various parties involved
are displayed transparently. In order for it to meet these requirements, it must be in an agreement
according to Art. 26 GDPR clear information with explanations of the different phases and
actors of the processing.27

In September 2018, Facebook published a so-called "Page Insights Supplement" regarding
of the Responsible" and "Information on Page Insights".

The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments has its
Position on responsibility and accountability for Facebook fan pages by resolution of 1.
April 2019 drafted and published (available at: https://www.datenschutzkonferenz online
ne.de/media/dskb/20190405_positionierung_facebook_fanpages.pdf).

In October 2019, Facebook released a slightly updated version of the Page Insights Supplement
regarding the person responsible” and the “Information on Page Insights” (available
at: https://www.facebook.com/legal/terms/page_controller_addendum).

The information contained there only outlines the scope of services of Page Insights. If
the data processing processes used for this purpose take place in compliance with data protection, can be based on
of the information there cannot be judged. In this respect, a mere reference to these is sufficient
Information does not allow those responsible to exercise their accountability under Art. 5 Para. 2 GDPR

26
27

See also Guidelines 8/2020 on the targeting of social media users, p. 36 ff.
S. Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR, version 2.0, p. 43 f.

Page 18 of 40



progeny. The same applies to the so-called Facebook data guidelines (available at:
https://de‐de.facebook.com/privacy/explanation). There, too, there are only general and
relatively unspecific information e.g. about which data (types) are processed and to
what purposes this is happening.

The information given in the addendum is also public in conjunction with the other information
Retrievable information provided by Facebook, such as the information contained in the
Facebook data policy can be viewed via the link https://www.facebook.com/policy
sufficiently meaningful to be able to evaluate on the basis of whether processing on
Basis of a legal basis from Art. 6 GDPR is legally possible. This is below
Among other things, that the actions of users who are subject to further processing in so-called
events, are not complete, but only exemplified. In addition, the
User interactions are described, but not the data processing triggered by them
shown. An agreement according to Art. 26 GDPR does not necessarily have to include this information
included if this information is otherwise available to those responsible. Lying regularly
Fan page operators: no information beyond the publicly available information
that would put them in a position to verify the lawfulness of the processing operations they
Responsibility to be able to determine positively.

Also the purposes intended with the use of fan pages, which in themselves do not exist
are objectionable and completely understandable, cannot have any significant influence on the evaluation
the  legal conformity  of the  company. Of course, it is of great relevance that
public bodies carry out wide-ranging and target group-oriented public relations
also, for example, to be able to adequately counter misinformation circulating.
However, this goal must not be pursued using means contrary to data protection law.

Simply due to a lack of sufficient information about the processing that is related
are carried out with Insights, legally compliant operation of a fan page is ruled out
Operators off. For this reason, the obtaining of effective consent also differs
Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter a GDPR, since the necessary information is available within the framework of the informed
Consent must be transmitted to the persons concerned, not due to lack of personal knowledge
can be given (see above). The information given by Facebook so far is only an outline
the interactions of users to whom processing of personal data also applies
purposes of the Insights. However, the information is so superficial and incomplete that
that an evaluation as the person responsible is not possible on the basis of this information (see
also above).

For the same reasons, site operators cannot fulfill their obligations under Art. 13
GDPR compliance. In this respect, the OVG Schleswig also ruled that the site operators against
have violated the transparency obligations of § 13 TMG applicable at the time. This statement
can also be met today.







Page 19 of 40

D

Third country transfer

Any transfer of personal data that is already being processed or after it
Transmission to a third country or an international organization to be processed is only
permitted if the specifications of Art. 44 ff. GDPR are complied with.

After the judgment of the ECJ in the case C-311/18 ("Schrems II") the so-called Privacy Shield
Decision 2016/1250 of the European Commission has been declared invalid, other
suitable guarantees according to Art. 44
legally compliant transmission
personal data to a third country. Whether any additional technical equipment used
or organizational measures sufficient to ensure compliance with the EU level of protection for
to ensure personal data,
is to be checked by those responsible and
if necessary, as part of their accountability.

ff. GDPR for

Questions in this regard were not conclusively examined in this report.

E

result

For the storage of triggered when visiting a fan page
in the
Terminal equipment of the end users and access to information that is already in the
terminal devices are stored, as well as for the processing of personal data, which
site operators are responsible, there are no effective legal bases. About that
Furthermore, the information requirements from Art. 13 GDPR are not fulfilled.

information







Page 20 of 40



f

I


Appendix

Appendix 1: Documentation of a Facebook registration process and important intermediate steps

Browser used for the test: Google Chrome, version 97.0.4692.99 on Windows 7 Professional



When you first call up the Facebook page www.facebook.com with previous cleanup of the entire browser
Chronicle options, a cookie notice appears with the buttons "Allow all cookies" or "More."
options". At this point in time, no cookies will be set.











Page 21 of 40

If the information window is confirmed with "Allow all cookies", the "datr" cookie is randomized with a
generated, presumably unique string and a validity of 2 years:

After login, for which the account that was no longer used by Facebook allegedly did not
can be clearly determined, 2 additional cookies are set:
‐ "wd": Width and height of the browser window (1324 x 437 pixels), valid for 7 days
- "sb": String of letters/numbers, validity: 2 years













Page 22 of 40

After confirmation with "Yes, continue" for the account suggested by Facebook, it is still not
can be found and an empty login mask is presented again.
The additional cookie "sfau" (session cookie only) has now been added:



After entering the same login parameters again, Facebook will still accept the login.
Now, updated Facebook terms and conditions must first be confirmed. The others are coming
Cookies "c_user" with the internal Facebook account number and "xs" with a string of letters/numbers
and 1 year validity each. The previous session cookie "sfau" no longer exists.







Page 23 of 40









After renewed confirmation, a thumb appears as a success message, nothing changes in the cookies.



After this window has been confirmed with "Close", a cookie banner appears again in which the
Users are addressed by name. Again with the two options "All cookies
allow” and “More options”. Initially, nothing has changed about the cookies.

Note: The second cookie notice only appeared once during the "restart" of the previous one
account that has not been used for a long time. It will no longer be displayed for subsequent logins.





Page 24 of 40







After the "Allow all cookies" option has been confirmed, the login is complete and the
Account overview is displayed. Another cookie is "presence", a temporary session cookie with
a relatively long mixed string, added:



While surfing within your own profile or calling up friend profiles or
other Facebook members: initially, these 6 cookies will remain.











Page 25 of 40

When calling up the Hamburg Facebook fan page (by manually entering the URL
www.facebook.com/Hamburg) an additional cookie is added: "fr", with a validity of 3 months:

The last cookie added "fr" is already directly after the
Registration available. It probably serves to deliver advertising.

The number of cookies reached with this of 7 cookies remains with further use (e.g. with calling up the
Fan page of the Hamburg Senate, www.facebook.com/senat.hamburg) is constant and does not change anymore.
These cookies are also set again by default for subsequent logins (only "wd" for
the screen size is not always included).












Page 26 of 40

Cookies persistence after logout


After performing a logout from Facebook via the "Logout" navigation item, the time is reduced
Cookie count to 4.
"datr", "sb" and "wd" remain. A new addition is "locale" with a validity of 7 days and a value
"de_DE".

Even with subsequent logouts, these 4 cookies are always retained.












Page 27 of 40

VARIANT: Registration only with "required cookies"


If the option "More options" is selected in the cookie notice window before logging in, the
Users are offered additional options. Here, the option is Required
Cookies" are pre-activated and cannot be deactivated. In addition, however, the "Optional





Page 28 of 40

Cookies” listed. This is disabled by default:



Will the option "Allow only necessary cookies" with the default setting (i.e. without "Optional
Cookies"), this means that after you log in to Facebook, another cookie, "oo" with the
Value "v1" and validity 5 years is set.
In return, the advertising cookie "fr" does not seem to be set in this case.







Page 29 of 40

After logging out of Facebook with "only necessary cookies", the cookie "oo" remains with the value
"v1" and validity 5 years in addition to the 4 other cookies datr", "locale", "sb" and "wd" via the
get beyond logout.









Page 30 of 40

Appendix 2: Documentation of the process of using Facebook without registration and essential

II.
intermediate steps


Browser used for the test: Firefox, version 97.0 on Windows 10 Pro



When you first call up the Facebook page www.facebook.com with previous cleanup of the entire browser
Chronicle options, a cookie notice appears with the buttons "Allow all cookies" or "More."
options". At this point in time, no cookies will be set.











Page 31 of 40

If the information window is confirmed with "Allow all cookies", the "datr" cookie is randomized with a
generated, presumably unique string and a validity of 2 years:

In addition, a session key is set in the browser's local storage, which presumably uniquely identifies you
String sets and in the browser's session storage a key with the name "TabId" and probably also appears
unique identifier set.



The website can subsequently be used without registration, despite the prompt to register,
without further cookies being set.










Page 32 of 40

Cookies persistence after closing the browser


After closing the browser and opening it again, the datr cookie is still present, additionally
there is a cookie with the name "dpr" and the value "1.25" with a validity of one week. in the
Loacla storage of the browser, various entries are available when you visit the website again.


VARIANT: Registration only with "required cookies"








Page 33 of 40

If only necessary cookies are selected when entering a Facebook page, the behavior will change
nothing on the website, both cookies and objects in web storage are set in the same way.
VARIANT: Facebook pages without cookies

Individual Facebook pages (e.g. Facebook page of the Free State of Saxony) set cookies despite the cookie dialog
Connection no cookies. Instead, the described objects are stored in the browser's web storage
filed.









Page 34 of 40



III.

Appendix 3: Text rendering of the general cookie banner before login:

Facebook's use of cookies in this browser
to allow?

We use cookies to provide you with our products and your experience with them
personalize and improve products. We also use them for advertising and analytics
and to increase your security. You can find more information about this in our cookie policy,
how we use cookies.

We save your cookie choices and apply them whenever you use this browser.

Necessary cookies

These cookies are required for the use of Facebook products. They are necessary for these sites to like
work as intended.

Optional cookies

 

 

Cookies from other companies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 





We use tools from other companies for advertising purposes and measurement services outside of the Facebook
products, for analysis purposes and to provide certain functions and to improve our services for
you. These companies also use cookies.

If you allow these cookies:
• Can we better personalize ads outside of Facebook Products for you and theirs
measure performance
• Doesn't affect the functionality of our products
• Do other companies receive information about you through the use of cookies?
If you do not allow these cookies:
• We do not use cookies from other companies to display ads outside of Facebook
to personalize products or to measure their performance
• Some features of our products may not work

More ways for you to control tracking

Settings in your Facebook account
If you have a Facebook account, you can use these tools to manage how different dates
used to personalize advertisements.

Ad Settings

Page 35 of 40

 



To show you better ads, we use information that advertisers and other partners provide
us about your activity outside of Facebook Company Products, such as on theirs
websites and apps. You can control whether we
may use this information to show you advertisements.
Advertisers can use the Facebook Audience Network to show you ads in apps and on
Show websites outside of the Facebook Company Products. To provide relevant advertisements
to deliver, Audience Network determines to which, for example, based on your advertising preferences
Advertisements you might be interested in. You can do this in your settings for
Manage Ads.

advertising preferences
In your advertising preferences, you can see why you are seeing a particular ad and
set out how we may use the information we collect to show you ads.

Activities outside of Facebook
You can view your activity outside of Facebook. This is a summary of yours
Interactions with companies and organizations that share them with us. The interaction applies to
For example, when you open an app or visit a website. companies and organizations
use our business tools such as Facebook login or the Facebook pixel to collect this information
to share with us. This allows us to offer you a more individual user experience on Facebook. Learn more
about off-Facebook activity, how we use it, and how you can manage it.
Learn more about online advertising
If you opt out of interest-based online ads from Facebook and other participating
If you want to see more companies, you can contact the Digital Advertising Alliance (USA), the Digital
Advertising Alliance of Canada (Canada), the European Interactive Digital Advertising Alliance (Europe)
or via the settings of your smartphone (if you have Android, iOS 13 or an earlier version of
using iOS) opt out of it. Please note that ad blockers and tools that support the use of
Restricting cookies by us could affect these settings.
The advertising companies we work with usually use cookies and
similar technologies as part of their services. Learn more about how advertisers use cookies
and what options they offer, check out the following resources:



Control cookies via browser settings
Your browser or device settings may allow you to choose whether
Browser cookies should be accepted or deleted. These settings differ depending on the
browsers. Manufacturers can change both the settings available and how they work at any time
change. As of October 5, 2020, you can find additional information on the links below
Settings options of the most popular browsers. If you use browser cookies
If you opt out, certain portions of Facebook Products may not work
perfect. Please note that these settings are different from the Facebook settings.







Digital Advertising Alliance
Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada
European Interactive Digital Advertising Alliance

Google Chrome
Internet Explorer
Firefox
safari
Safari (mobile devices)
Opera

<Allow only required cookies>

 

<Allow selected cookies>



Page 36 of 40

Appendix 4: The setting options for operators of a Facebook fan page

IV

Worth mentioning here are v. a. the "Country Restrictions" and "Maturity Restrictions" options. Will
there by the operator: inside restrictions, the page is no longer free for everyone
Page visitors: can be accessed from within, but only for Facebook members (unless these are under
the exclusion criteria fall). In this case, when the URL is called up, a restricted fan page of
Facebook only one login mask is displayed.

"Settings general":









Page 37 of 40

Appendix 5: Facebook Cookie Policy

V




Page 38 of 40



Page 39 of 40



Page 40 of 40



