 

 

Sent by e-mail only 
 
Wim Mijs, Chief Executive of the EBF 
Peter Simon, Managing Director of the ESBG 
Nina Schindler, Chief Executive Officer of the EACB 
Ralf Ohlhausen, Chair of the ETPPA 
Marcel Roy, Secretary General of the EAPB 
Elie Beyrouthy, Chair of the EPIF 
Thaer Sabri, Chief Executive Officer of the EMA 
Marc Roberts, Chair of the EFA 
Robrecht Vandormael, Secretary General of PE 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brussels, 12 May 2022 
Ref: OUT2022-0031 

 

Dear Sir/Madam,  

Thank you for your letter of 31 January 2022 outlining your concerns regarding the Guidelines 06/2020 
on the interplay of the Second Payment Services Directive (PSD2) and the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) adopted on 17 July 2020. 

In response to your concerns, I would like first to highlight that the EDPB held a stakeholder event on 
the revised PSD2 before starting the drafting of the Guidelines. Furthermore, prior to the adoption of 
the  final  version  of  the  Guidelines,  the  EDPB  published  a  first  version  of  the  Guidelines  for  public 
consultation to collect the views and concerns of the interested stakeholders and citizens. The views 
that  have  been  brought  forward  during  these  consultations  -some  of  which  mirrors  the  concerns 
raised in your letter-, have already been very carefully taken into consideration by the Board before 
adopting the final version of the Guidelines. As is the case with all guidance by the EDPB, the Board is 
permanently  monitoring  the  necessity  of  reviewing  these  Guidelines.  However,  for  the  reasons 
outlined above, the EDPB considers it is not necessary to revise these Guidelines for the moment. 

Moreover, let me recall that the EDPB has the general task of ensuring a consistent application of the 
GDPR (Article 70(1) GDPR), and that it is precisely to this end that it has issued these Guidelines.  

In addition, supervisory authorities have the task to contribute to the consistent application of the 
GDPR throughout the European Union (Article 51(2) GDPR). In line with the authorities’ competence 
to promote the awareness of controllers and processors of their obligations under the GDPR (Article  

 

57(1) (d) GDPR), payment service providers can turn to their national supervisory authorities if they 
require more information and clarifications on these Guidelines.  

Finally, as a suggestion, I draw your attention to the possibility for the payment sector to prepare and 
submit, in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR, a code of conduct for approval by their national 
supervisory authority. Codes of conduct are intended to contribute to the proper application of the 
GDPR, taking account of the specific features of the processing sector and the specific needs of micro, 
small and medium-sized enterprises. The substance of this code of conduct has to be in accordance 
with the GDPR, also taking into account the relevant guidance provided by the EDPB. Such a code of 
conduct would specify the application of the GDPR in relation to the processing of personal data by 
payment service providers, in the context of services that fall under the PSD2, and provide further 
solutions  and  legal certainty  for  the  sector.  The  EDPB  Guidelines  1/2019  on codes  of  conduct  and 
monitoring  bodies  under  Regulation  2016/6791  provide  practical  guidance  and  interpretative 
assistance. 

 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
1 Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring Bodies under Regulation 2016/679 | European Data Protection 
Board (europa.eu) 
 

