1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00098/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D. G. OF THE CIVIL GUARD - POSITION OF ***LOCATION.1 (*in
hereinafter, the claimant) on February 3, 2020 filed a claim with the
Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed against ILERDA
LESHORES CAFETERIA SLU with NIF B25592338 (hereinafter, the claimed). The
reasons on which the claim is based are "installation of video-surveillance system"
without having an informative poster adequate to the regulations in force.

Along with the claim, provide a copy of the Complaint Act that verifies the
infractions presumably observed by the Security Forces and Bodies
displaced to the scene of the events.

SECOND: On June 9, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

THIRD: The database of this body was consulted on 09/04/20, no
There is no allegation regarding the facts that are the subject of the complaint.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the Complaint forwarded to this Agency by
the State Security Forces and Bodies, motivated by the irregularities observed
served in the denounced establishment, as it lacks the mandatory sign
informative, adapted to the regulations in force.

The RGPD obliges data controllers to offer interested parties a ma-
More information about the treatments that are carried out and the way to exercise the rights

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

guys. All those responsible must comply with this obligation of transparency,
regardless of its size as an organization.

The obligation to inform interested persons about the circumstances

regarding the processing of your data falls on the person responsible for the Treatment.

Article 22.4 LOPDGDD provides the following:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative site a connection code or internet address to this information.

In any case, the person in charge of the treatment must keep available to the
affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

Likewise, you must have an informative form(s) available to any
customer who may require it inside the establishment, so that he can recall
nar it if required, being able to consult it on the website of this body
www.aep.es in the Video-surveillance Section “forms and other models”.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
penalty, it is considered that the defendant has a video-surveillance system
in your commercial establishment, although you do not have the mandatory computerized poster
indicated by the data controller and how to exercise the rights recognized.
known in the regulations in force.

Article 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following:

“The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
condition of authority and in which, observing the corresponding legal requirements,
teeth the facts verified by those are collected will prove them except
prove the contrary”.

In such a way that the absence of an informative poster in the state is accredited.
denounced establishment, when such an extreme was verified by the acting force displaced
given to the scene of the events, which determines that it does not report on the responsible
ble, nor the way to exercise the rights regulated in articles 15-22 RGPD.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the claimant.

mado, for violation of the content of art. 13 GDPR.

The art. 13 GDPR provides the following:

“When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the person in charge
of treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide you with all the information

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

tion indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their

representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis

legal treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the inte-

legitimate cattle of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,

in your case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been lent (…)”.

So that all that potential "client" of the establishment must know
certify that it is a video-monitored area, that your data is being processed
as well as who is the main person in charge of the treatment, informing him of the
way to be able to exercise their rights in their case, providing them with the necessary forms
cesareans for this purpose.

IV

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the following provisions
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20
EUR 000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount.
to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation provides
ne in your art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what
stated in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than a sanction.
tion by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must, however, lend
special attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its character
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

intentional, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the degree
liability or any relevant prior violation, to the manner in which the authority
control authority has become aware of the infraction, compliance with measures
measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, adherence to codes of con-
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

The absence of previous infractions is taken into account, as well as the fact that it is
of a small hotel establishment with little knowledge in the matter
that concerns us, to propose a sanction of warning; Although you must prove
irrefutably compliance with the required measures, carrying out the actions
necessary for the legalization of the system object of denunciation.

The complaint must be accompanied by the necessary evidence that proves the
compliance with the measures (e.g. photograph of the informative poster placed in a vi-
possible, etc).

Remember for the appropriate legal purposes, that the lack of collaboration with this
Agency may lead to the opening of a sanctioning procedure of a
economic, under the terms of art. 72.1 letter o) LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ILERDA LESHORES CAFETERIA SLU, with NIF B25592338,
for an infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD,
a warning sanction.

SECOND: REQUIRE the accused to legalize the system by placing a sign
informative duly approved, accrediting such extreme to this Agency to the
appropriate legal effects.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the reported entity ILERDA
LESHORES CAFETERIA SLU and REPORT the result of the actions D. G.
OF THE CIVIL GUARD - POST OF ***LOCALITY.1

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

