1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00071/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 01/08/2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against Ms. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The reasons in
on which the claim is based are that, on numerous occasions, the academy sends him
emails without a blind copy, being able not only to see the names of the email addresses
of other people, if not that others can see yours and attached proof of 5
emails sent in the course of this last year.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection
tion of Data proceeded to carry out the following actions:
On 02/05/2020, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the affected party of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, he is re-
I wanted him to send the Agency certain information within a month:
- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring.
similar quotes.
- Any other that you consider relevant.
Dated 03/04/2020 (check-in date 06/01/2020, 06/11/2020 and
07/01/2020) the respondent responded to the AEPD stating in summary that the incidence
claimed does not constitute practice or habitual action in the operation of the
demic, recognizing that although the facts constitute a breach of the duty of confidentiality
are due to a specific human error, having breached the protocol
established for these cases by the acting teacher and adopting a series of measures
measures to prevent this type of incident from happening again in the future.

THIRD: On 06/02/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
Rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the re-
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: On 02/18/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged in-
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

fraction of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions
in article 58.2.b) of the aforementioned regulation.

FIFTH: Notified of the initiation agreement, the respondent, on 03/03/2021, manifests
It contained, in summary, the following: that at all times it has shown its willingness to collaborate
boration towards this organism; that the constitutive facts of the in-
fraction indicating its punctual character and lack of intentionality; that was sent
teachers and staff communicated through which the obligation to
follow the protocol for those and the obligation to use the blind copy functionality
that allows to maintain the confidentiality of electronic addresses; was reviewed
implementation that in 2018 that carried out a consultancy on the Protection of
Data contracted for this purpose, reviewing again all the procedures and
treatments and update them, which is why a specialized consultant was commissioned
gives the realization of a new implantation; which last June completed the review and
update of the implantation, being able to consult on the web page: www.emplea-
te.com and its privacy policy; that recently, in addition, has proceeded to
voluntarily appoint a Data Protection Officer for the company
limited EMPLEA-TE, S.L. in order to make the control of regulatory compliance more effective.
and ensure efficiency and quality in data processing and attention to information.
interested.

SIXTH: On 03/13/2021, a period of practice tests began, in accordance with
do the following

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection Services that are part of file E/00881/2020.
- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
cio presented by the claimed and the documentation that accompanies them.

SEVENTH: On 03/31/2021, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense that
sanction the claimant for infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, typifying
das in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the RGPD, with a warning of conformity
with article 58.3 of the RGPD.
After the term legally indicated at the time of this Resolution, the re-
claimed had not submitted a pleadings brief.

EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 01/08/2020 the claimant submitted a letter to the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, stating that, on numerous occasions, the academy in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

who prepares sends you emails without a blind copy, being able not only to see the names of the
email addresses of other people, if not that others can see yours
and attached as proof of 5 emails sent in the course of this last year.

SECOND: A copy of the emails sent to the claimant is provided.
te on 02/19, 21, 26, 27 and 02/29/2019 without blind copy.

THIRD: The respondent in writing dated 06/01/2020 has stated that “it must be
In the first place, note that the incident that motivates the facts that are the subject of the claim
It is not constituted as a habitual practice within its normal operation. In this
sense, the Academy recognizes, as it could not be otherwise, that the facts
constitute a violation of the duty of confidentiality, and that, being aware of
This point reiterates that the practice is not normal, but that it is due to a human error.
not punctual”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

II

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the treatment operations have infringed the
provided in this Regulation;
(…)”

In the first place, article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must be
govern the processing of personal data and mentions among them that of "integrity and
confidentiality”.

The cited article states that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

4/9

against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”)”.
(…)

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

III

Second, article 32 of the RGPD “Security of treatment”,

establishes that:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.
(…)”

IV

The proven facts show the disclosure of email addresses
email when sent to the claimant emails without a blind copy with
breach of the technical and organizational measures and violating the
data confidentiality.

It has been credited through the screenshots of the emails
emails provided by the claimant that were sent from the address Info
Emplea-te info@emplea-te.com, on dates 19, 21, 26, 27 and 02/29/2019 without a copy
hidden, to a plurality of email addresses among which is the
address owned by the claimant and through which information about the
activities of the academy, which supposes the violation of the regulations regarding
protection of personal data.

Said action constitutes a violation of the principles of confidentiality and
of data security, regulated in articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, and
typified in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

In addition, it is observed that in the bottom of the aforementioned emails when it is done
reference to the privacy policy refers to the LOPD 15/1999 rule that in said
date was already repealed by the RGPD.

However, in order to clarify the terms of the claim
presented and that has led to the opening of this sanctioning procedure, the
claimed by letter of 03/03/2020 indicated that at all times it has
shown their willingness to collaborate with this Control Authority indicating that
It was not true, as stated in the initial agreement, that he did not answer the
request formulated by the AEPD since it responded to it and that the incidence

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

object of the claim does not constitute the usual practice in its operation
normal and, although he recognizes that the facts constitute an infringement of the
on protection of personal data, everything is due to human error
punctual and involuntary and that the teacher who gave the classes to the group in question
breached the protocol established for these cases, for which a
series of measures to avoid this type of incident:

The referral to all teachers and administration staff a statement
informing and reiterating the obligation to follow the protocol for these cases, and the
obligation to use the blind copy functionality that allows you to keep the
confidentiality of electronic addresses.

The review of the implementation of the GDPR that was carried out in 2018, and that
It was more convenient to reexamine all the procedures and treatments and
update them, which is why a specialized consultant was entrusted with the
performing a new implementation.

The appointment of DPD to make compliance control more effective
regulations, and ensure efficiency and quality in the treatment of data and attention to
interested.

v

The violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD is typified in article 85.5.a)

of the aforementioned Regulation.

Article 83.5 a) considers that the infringement of “the basic principles for the
treatment, including the conditions for consent under articles 5,
6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the
cited RGPD, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount”.

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, in its article 72 indicates

that: “Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

SAW

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,

11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.

(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

And in its article 73, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as "Infringements

considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)
g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance with
required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

(…)”

7th

However, article 58.2 of the REPD provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2.b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations.

In this proceeding, as indicated previously, it has been
accredited the disclosure of email addresses when referred to the
claimant emails without blind copy with violation of the measures
technical and organizational and violating the confidentiality of the data.

In accordance with the evidence available to said conduct
constitutes by the claimed the violation of the provisions of articles 5.1.f)
and 32.1 of the GDPR.

However, the person claimed in writing sent to this Agency, in addition to
to recognize the events that occurred, pointing out that everything had been a consequence of
a punctual human error and the absence of intentionality, has proceeded to adopt a
series of measures informing and communicating the academy staff about the
obligation to follow the established protocol regarding emails; the
review of all the procedures and treatments implemented, updating them and
commissioning a specialized consultant to carry out said work, etc., and to
in order to make the control of regulatory compliance more effective the appointment
of DPD, so it is not appropriate to urge the adoption of additional measures since
It has been proven that the respondent has adopted adequate and reasonable measures
to avoid incidents such as the one claimed.

In addition, it must be taken into account that there is no recidivism, for not
record the commission in the term of one year of more than one infraction of the same
nature and that the respondent is a small business.
 

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 32.1
of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.4.a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning
in accordance with article 58.3 of the RGPD.

SECOND: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 5.1.f)
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning
in accordance with article 58.3 of the RGPD

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPA-
CAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative case before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Au-
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative diction, within a period of two months from the day following
Following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned
Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPA-
CAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the city
tada Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
certifying the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. Yes
the Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
nistrative within two months from the day following the notification of the pre-
This resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

