  Friday, January 27, 2023 2: Press releases State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein takes over the chair of the data protection conference Dr. H. c. Marit Hansen, the state commissioner for data protection in Schleswig-Holstein, will take over the rotating chairmanship of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (data protection conference - DSK) for 2023. The DSK has the task of safeguarding and protecting basic data protection rights, achieving uniform application of European and national data protection law and working together to promote its further development. Schleswig-Holstein last chaired the DSK in 2005. Since then, the world has developed rapidly. Hansen is therefore looking forward to coordinating the collaboration with her counterparts this year. "Times have changed - this is also due to the General Data Protection Regulation, which celebrates its fifth anniversary in May of this year. This not only strengthened data protection itself throughout Europe. The cooperation between the data protection supervisory authorities has also become much more intensive. The close exchange and the effort to achieve uniform positions on data protection issues throughout Germany are of enormous value. This not only increases legal certainty for those responsible - it also makes it possible to 'speak with one voice' at European level. This is important in order to give weight to our common position at this level as well and to advance fundamental issues,” says Hansen.
Schleswig-Holstein takes over the chair from Prof. Ulrich Kelber, the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), who, at the end of his conference year on January 30, 2023, invites you to an event on the European Data Protection Day in the European House in Berlin. In terms of content, there will be keynote speeches on the Data Act and the future of data protection, among other things. The event can be followed in the live stream: https://www.bfdi.bund.de/DE/Service/Mediathek/Livestream/Livestream_node.html
The 1st interim conference will take place on January 31, 2023 in the Schleswig-Holstein State Representation in Berlin. During the presidency, Schleswig-Holstein will invite the members of the data protection conference to three further face-to-face conferences in Rendsburg, Kiel and Lübeck. Further meetings will be held via video conference. At the end of the conference year, the State Commissioner for Data Protection will host an event on European Data Protection Day in January 2024 at the Schleswig-Holstein State Representation in Berlin.
Further information on the data protection conference: https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/
Contact:
State Commissioner for Data Protection
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98, 24103 Kiel
Phone: 0431 988 1200
Email: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: dsk, news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: Data protection ensures free democratic elections - Planned EU regulation on transparency and targeting of political advertising Announcement - "Save the date!" - Summer Academy in Kiel on September 11th, 2023 5 years of the General Data Protection Regulation: Proven standard, implementable, internationally recognized 105th conference of the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities: Employee data protection, AI in the police, wireless water meter, sovereign cloud Everything you want to know about data protection, simply explained – The youth portal youngdata.de with a new website