1/10

Litigation Chamber

 

Decision on the merits 09/2019 of

December 17, 2019

 

 

 

File number: DOS-2018-05395

 

Subject: Complaint for use of an "undesirable people list" and non-deletion

of personal data from this list

 

 

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke

Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Dirk Van Der Kelen and Frank De Smet, members;

 

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the

free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on the

data protection) (hereinafter the "GDPR");

 

Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter the

ACL;

 

Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on

December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

 

Considering the documents in the file;

 

 

 

 

.
 .

.
.

.
.

Decision on the merits 09/2019- 2/10

made the following decision regarding:

-

-

the plaintiff: Mr. X

the defendant: Y

 

 

1. Facts and procedure

 

-

On September 8, 2018, the complainant filed a complaint with the Data Protection Authority

against the defendant.

 

The subject of the complaint concerned the processing by Y (hereinafter: the non-profit organization) of personal data

personnel in a "list of undesirable persons" and the absence of any follow-up from the non-profit organization

to request the deletion of personal data from this list.

 

-

On October 15, 2018, the complaint was declared admissible on the basis of articles 58 and 60 of the LCA, the

complainant is notified under Article 61 of the LCA and the complaint is forwarded to the Chamber

Litigation under article 62, § 1 of the LCA.

 

-

On October 23, 2018, the Litigation Chamber decides to request an investigation from the Service

of Inspection, pursuant to articles 63, 2° and 94, 1° of the LCA.

 

-

On October 26, 2018, in accordance with Article 96, § 1 of the LCA, the Chamber's request

Litigation to proceed with an investigation is transmitted to the Inspection Department, as well as the

complaint and the minutes of this decision.

 

-

On May 7, 2019, the investigation by the Inspection Service was closed, the report was attached to the file and

this is forwarded by the Inspector General to the President of the Litigation Chamber (art. 91,

§ 1 and § 2 of the LCA).

 

The Inspection Service notes, broadly speaking, that the complainant has a dispute with the

defendant since at least 2016 regarding his (ex-)membership. Data recording

identification of the complainant in the "list of undesirable persons", for internal management

of the defendant's litigation, took place following a decision of the general meeting of the defendant.

The complainant was informed of this by means of a notification by bailiff on May 9, 2018.

Such processing is mentioned in Article 12 "Disputes and sanctions", § 5, point h.5 of the amendment

of the defendant's statutes of May 15, 2017. The report establishes that there is no indication or evidence

any other treatment on the part of the defendant. There is no indication that the

personal data from the management of disputes are published or communicated to

third parties, so that there is, for example, no indication for the qualification of the processing as

Decision on the merits 09/2019- 3/10

as "blacklist" (multisectoral) implying negative consequences for the complainant.

Referring to Article 40.2. k) of the GDPR, the Inspection Service considers that the management of disputes

specific to members constitutes a legitimate purpose. The conditions for the exercise of

right to erasure (Art. 17.1 GDPR) do not seem to be fulfilled. Data processing

of a personal nature finds its basis in the legitimate interest of the defendant, seems limited

to strictly necessary identification data and organized in a transparent manner for the

complainant and third parties. Personal data therefore does not appear to be processed

illicit manner.

The inspection report concludes that there is no sufficient serious indication or evidence allowing

to substantiate the merits of the complaint.

 

-

On May 28, 2019, the Litigation Division decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and Article 98

of the ACL, that the case can be dealt with on the merits.

 

-

On June 3, 2019, the parties concerned are informed by registered letter of the provisions such as

as set out in article 95, § 2 as well as in article 98 of the LCA. They are also informed,

under Article 99 of the LCA, time limits for transmitting their conclusions. The deadline for the

receipt of the respondent's submissions in response was set for June 28, 2019, that for the

submissions in reply of the complainant on July 29, 2019 and that for the submissions in reply of the

defendant as of August 29, 2019.

 

-

On June 11, 2019, the complainant requested a copy of the file (art. 95, § 2, 3° of the LCA), which provided him with

was transmitted on June 13, 2019.

 

-

On June 17, 2019, the defendant requests a copy of the file (art. 95, § 2, 3° of the LCA), which

was transmitted on June 26, 2019.

 

-

On June 28, 2019, the Litigation Chamber received the submissions in response from the defendant,

where the latter specifies that he wishes to be heard only if the complainant himself asks to be heard.

be heard.

 

-

On August 2, 2019, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in reply from the complainant.

The latter expresses his wish to have recourse to the possibility of being heard (art. 98, 2° of the LCA).

 

-

On August 5, 2019, the respondent requests that the plaintiff's reply submissions be excluded

debates given that they were tabled outside the deadline set for the conclusions.

 

-

On August 5, 2019, the complainant specified that he had assumed that the deadline for submissions was a

time of order and that the defendant certainly still had sufficient time to

provide additional conclusions.

Decision on the merits 09/2019- 4/10

 

-

On August 29, 2019, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in reply from the

respondent.

These repeat the position that the complainant's submissions which were filed in

as long as "written explanation of the complaint with Mr. X's file of exhibits" have not been

received within the stipulated time and must be excluded from the proceedings.

In terms of content, the submissions in reply fully reproduce the submissions in

answer and respond to the complainant's conclusions, they can be summarized as follows:

(a) The Respondent refutes, by means of an addendum, the Complainant's assertion that he

is still a direct member of Y International Ltd. However, the complainant was registered

as a Direct International Member (DIM) for the last time in 2014.

b) The Complainant may create an alternative association but not under the auspices of Y International,

nor by using the name or logo of Y.

c) The Complainant cannot specify which people would have a personal grudge against him.

against, on which alternative forums of former members are found, which members of the

defendant still want him as a member or which members would have complained

with Y International.

d) The defendant denies having transmitted personal data of the complainant to his bank

as well as in Y Portugal.

The Litigation Division decides, in this case, not to exclude from the proceedings the

submissions in reply of the complainant, submitted on August 2, 2019, although the deadline for the

conclusions had been set for July 29, 2019, given that the defendant reacted to it himself from

detailed manner and has also sent additional documents. The rights of defense of

defendant have not been violated, so that the Litigation Chamber takes up the arguments of the

complainant, as set out in its submissions, with a view to effectively guaranteeing contradiction

in this file.

 

-

On December 10, 2019, the parties are informed that the hearing will take place on

December 17, 2019.

 

-

On December 17, 2019, the parties are heard by the Litigation Chamber.

 

2. Legal basis

 

Article 6.1.f) GDPR

 

1. Processing is only lawful if and insofar as at least one of the following conditions is

filled:

Decision on the merits 09/2019- 5/10

[…]

f) processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller

processing or by a third party, unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms prevail

of the data subject who require protection of personal data, in particular

when the data subject is a child.

 

Article 12.4 GDPR

 

4. If the data controller does not comply with the request made by the person

concerned, he informs the latter without delay and at the latest within 1 month from the

receipt of the request for the reasons for its inaction and the possibility of lodging a complaint with

of a supervisory authority and to lodge a judicial appeal.

 

Article 17.1 GDPR

 

1. The data subject has the right to obtain from the controller the erasure, within the

as soon as possible, of personal data concerning him and the controller has

the obligation to erase this personal data as soon as possible, when one of the

following reasons apply:

a) the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which

it has been collected or otherwise processed;

b) the data subject withdraws the consent on which the processing is based, in accordance with

Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)(a) and there is no other

legal basis for processing;

c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there is no

no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or the data subject objects to the processing

pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 2;

d) the personal data has been unlawfully processed;

e) the personal data must be erased to comply with a legal obligation which

is provided for by Union law or by the law of the Member State to which the controller

is submitted;

f) the personal data was collected in the context of the company's service offer

information referred to in Article 8(1).

 

 

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 09/2019- 6/10

3. Motivation

 

The Litigation Chamber took cognizance of the history of the dispute in which the plaintiff and the

defendant have been involved since 2010 and the numerous legal proceedings and decisions that have

followed. In this regard, the Litigation Chamber emphasizes that it is not within its jurisdiction to rule

on this subject.

 

On the other hand, it is indeed up to the Litigation Chamber to decide on the measure in

whether or not the respondent respects the complainant's right to data protection, in accordance

GDPR requirements. The analysis at the origin of the decision that will be taken by the Litigation Chamber

concerns only the subject of the complaint, more particularly the registration of the complainant in the

"undesirable persons list". Insofar as the complaint concerns other (non-)members than

the plaintiff himself, - the plaintiff asserts: "It has already been years since the association Y

uses data without member consent. Thus, it uses for example a "list of

undesirable people" both for non-members and for members. It does not access

requests for deletion." - it is clear that the Litigation Chamber cannot follow up

since only the complaint of an interested party can be processed (Art. 77 GDPR). Since then,

only the plaintiff's own request for erasure is processed by the Litigation Chamber.

  

On the basis of the documents added, the Litigation Division was able to establish that the plaintiff exercised his

right to erasure (Art. 17 of the GDPR) with regard to the defendant on August 14, 2018. The defendant reacted

to this request within the period of one month set by the GDPR, not only mentioning that it was not

not possible to accede to this request but also by explicitly specifying the reasons for this

inaction (Art. 12.4 GDPR), namely that the data processing is based on the legitimate interest of the

defendant who must respect the statutes and execute the decisions of the general meeting, plus

specifically the decision of the General Assembly of March 10, 2018 to include the complainant on the list

undesirable persons, in accordance with the defendant's statutes which provide that a member

excluded can be placed on this list.

 

In this context, the Litigation Chamber also points out that Article 12.4 of the GDPR requires

that the data controller informs the data subject of the possibility of introducing a

complaint to a supervisory authority and to lodge a judicial appeal. In his response to the

request for erasure, the defendant certainly did not include this information but this is explained by

the fact that in his actual request for erasure, the complainant already mentioned that if the

defendant did not grant his request, he would lodge a complaint with the supervisory authorities.

The Respondent could therefore assume that the Complainant was already aware of this right.

 

Decision on the merits 09/2019- 7/10

This ground for refusal was examined by the Litigation Chamber and compared with the relevant provisions

of the GDPR, paying attention to the following considerations:

 

First of all, the right to erasure is not an absolute right in the sense that the person responsible for the

treatment, in this case the non-profit organization, must only act on it insofar as one of the cases listed

17 GDPR applies. Applied to the present complaint, it turns out that there is no basis

legal to proceed with the erasure but that, on the contrary, the continuation of the processing of the data

identification of the complainant as an "undesirable person" is legitimate within the framework of the management

of the dispute involving the parties.

 

As the inspection report rightly points out, in accordance with Article 40.2.k) of the

GDPR, associations, such as an asbl, can develop codes of conduct

regarding dispute resolution procedures for resolving disputes between

controllers and data subjects. This provision already recognizes

implicitly that defining a procedure for the settlement of disputes constitutes a legitimate purpose

associations. The provision, included in the articles of association since May 24, 2017, according to which the

persons excluded from membership by decision of the general meeting may be registered on a

"list of undesirable people" and that after seven years, these people can introduce a

request to the Board of Directors to be removed from this list, request on which

the general meeting will also decide, is entirely within the framework of the purpose of the regulations

disputes between the controller and (ex-)members in the context of the processing of

given by an association. The settlement of disputes in the relationship between the association and its

(ex-)members, in particular by providing an additional membership condition for membership in

the association by which people on the "undesirable persons list" cannot

not be members of Y, must therefore be considered as a specific, explicit and legitimate purpose

within the meaning of Article 5.1.b) of the GDPR. Moreover, this applies not only to the management of

disputes but also for the management of members in general.

 

In concrete terms, the processing of the complainant's identification data as a "person

undesirable" is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interest pursued by the association (art. 6.1.f) of the GDPR),

namely the interest of managing its own disputes according to the procedure it has defined in the statutes.

Regarding the assessment of whether the legitimate interest of the controller

takes precedence over that of the data subject, recital 47 of the GDPR states that account must be taken

reasonable expectations of data subjects based on their relationship with the data controller

processing. The Litigation Chamber considers in this respect that the procedure involving the association and the

complainant for several years is such that the complainant can reasonably

expect their personal data to be processed by the association for the purpose

determined, namely the management of disputes. Although the "undesirable persons list" was not

Decision on the merits 09/2019- 8/10

provided for as such in the statutes at the time when the complainant was a member of the association, the

possibilities of sanctions against (ex-) members were however already included in the statutes

at that time, including exclusion and suspension. At the time, he accepted these statutes. That implies

that it is within the complainant's reasonable expectation that at the time of a possible exclusion, his

data are processed for this purpose, as well as in the broader context of the management of

disputes.

 

Moreover, no document reveals that the defendant would use the complainant's data for a

any other purpose than the management of disputes (art. 5.1.b) of the GDPR). Therefore, there is no

transfer of data to third parties who are not involved in the dispute with the complainant. Although

the complainant tries to demonstrate that there was indeed communication of information concerning his

person by the defendant to a banking institution in which he holds an account, as well as to

an establishment of Y in Portugal, - which would imply, according to the complainant, a data leak -, these

parts are not convincing. The document that should attest to the data leak from the

defendant to the bank turns out to be only a letter from the plaintiff to the bank concerning a

release of an account, in which he himself mentions "the publication of a possible" list of

undesirable persons". No other document demonstrating a possible leak of data from the

defendant to the bank is added.

 

The e-mail that would have been sent by Y Portugal to the complainant is also not likely to support

the assertion that there is talk of a leak of data from the defendant to the establishment

in Portugal. Such a data leak is firmly denied by the defendant who adds however

documents that raise a reasonable doubt about the proof of such a data leak

presented by the complainant. In Portugal, there is so far no official Y association. A group

Facebook Y was however created which uses the email address YPT@gmail.com (as mentioned in

the document added by the complainant) but this address has not been active since June 2016, whereas

the e-mail submitted by the complainant would date from July 20, 2019. All the elements presented by the

leader of the Y group in Portugal who is trying to launch a Y association there lead the Chamber

Litigation to conclude that it is not proven that there is any question of the slightest data leak.

  

In addition, the association respects the principle of minimization of data implying that in the light of

the purpose of dispute management, only the name of the complainant is processed (art. 5.1.c) of the GDPR).

The complainant asserts that this principle relating to the processing of personal data would not

not respected and argues that depriving him of his membership in organizations in different States

members would cause him a financial loss. This leads to a disproportionate result. Bedroom

Litigation draws attention to the fact that the principle of data minimization implies that the

data processed must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the

purposes for which they are processed. The treatment of the name of the complainant, by which it is

Decision on the merits 09/2019- 9/10

considered as an "undesirable person" pursuant to the articles of association, in the context of the management of

disputes meets this criterion.

 

The denial of membership to the plaintiff stems from the fact that he is an "undesirable person" for the

respondent. The Complainant's position that the treatment of his name, combined with "person

junk" involves the creation, by the defendant, of a blacklist is not, however, followed by the

Litigation Chamber.

 

Defendant's statutes state the following: "Anyone who was ever a member of Y,

whether or not it is a member at the time of the general meeting, who has committed acts that could

result in expulsion if they were a member, may be placed on the "undesirable list"

by the general meeting. " [Free translation by the Secretariat of the Authority for the Protection of

data, in the absence of an official translation] In the statutes of the defendant, it is therefore a question

of a "list of undesirable people", but this is insufficient to qualify it as a blacklist

which is shared with third parties. The treatment of the name of the person concerned as a "person

undesirable" remains strictly limited within the framework of the association in Belgium, which processes this data

by virtue of its legitimate interest. The only consequence for the complainant that stems from the decision of

the defendant's general meeting to include him on this list is that he cannot be a member

for 7 years and that at the end of this period, he can submit a new application for membership. There

has no indication that this list will be disseminated or used within any specific industry, involving

that the processing would take place outside the closed circle of the association and that the complainant would be confronted with

any negative consequence affecting his or her fundamental rights. The decision of

defendant was taken on the basis of its statutes and therefore only concerns the association in Belgium.

This does not bind the associations of Y in the other Member States. The alleged financial loss

by the plaintiff is also not demonstrated in any way.

 

The plaintiff is described by the defendant as an undesirable person and this concerns only a

internal decision of the association whose sole purpose is the proper management of its disputes and its members.

The way in which an association organizes in its statutes the membership, the conditions of membership and

the exclusion comes under the right of association, on which the Litigation Chamber does not rule.

 

In this regard, for the sake of completeness, the Litigation Chamber notes that the processing

of the complainant's name as an "undesirable person" is central and that the manner in which this

processing takes place, namely by qualifying this person as such in the decision of the meeting

general, or by means of registration on a separate list, constitutes a modality of

treatment without consequences for the complainant. The fact that the statutes of the association establish that

excluded persons are included in a "list of undesirable persons", while the defendant

asserts that there is no separate list, precisely because the complainant is the only

Decision on the merits 09/2019- 10/10

person to have been described as an "undesirable person", making the mention of his name in the

minutes of the decision of the general meeting of March 10, 2018 sufficient, not relevant

as such under the definition of processing (Art. 4.2) of the GDPR).

 

The Litigation Chamber can only come to the conclusion that the defendant is processing the data

appearing on the "undesirable persons list" in accordance with the GDPR and that there is therefore no

slightest violation, by the defendant, of the applicable provisions of the GDPR as mentioned

above.

 

The Litigation Chamber therefore decides to close the present complaint without further action.

 

Given the importance of transparency concerning the decision-making process of the Litigation Chamber,

this decision is published on the website of the Data Protection Authority. However, he

is not necessary that for this purpose the identification data of the parties are directly

mentioned.

 

 

 

FOR THESE REASONS,

 

the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation, to

dismiss the present complaint, pursuant to Article 100, § 1, 1° of the LCA, given that no

violation of the provisions of the GDPR cannot be established. Based on the information available to the

Litigation Chamber at present, it considers to date that it is therefore not possible to give

following the complaint.

 

Under article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed within a period of

thirty days, from the notification, to the Court of Markets, with the Authority for the Protection of

given as defendant.

 

 

 

 

 

(Sr.) Hielke Hijmans

President of the Litigation Chamber

