

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Personal data security control (Financial Office for the Ústí Region, territorial office in Louny)



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out a security check of personal data at the Financial Office for the Ústí Region, territorial office in Louny.

The audited person delivered documents to a person without a data box to another tax entity's data box. The confusion occurred due to the same name, surname and date of birth of two tax entities. The inspected person at the workplace in Louny discovered the misconduct himself and took corrective measures, i.e. took measures to prevent such misconduct from occurring in the future.

In this context, the audited person will further initiate a change in the entire financial administration system. However, due to the financial burden and the large number of documents delivered to tax subjects, this change cannot be made immediately, and therefore, until then, the error rate during delivery to the data box will be minimized by manually verifying the address of residence. The Office found that the inspected person violated the obligations set forth in § 13 paragraph 1 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (taking security measures). The objections filed against the inspection findings were rejected by the President of the Office as late.

Considering that the inspected person immediately corrected the defective condition, the Office did not impose corrective measures. The office imposed a fine of CZK 5,000 on the inspected person.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector PhDr. Petr Krejci.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Inspection of personal data security (Financial Office for the Ústí Region, territorial office in Louny) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



