PRESS RELEASE

the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments of May 25, 2023

 

 

 

5 years General Data Protection Regulation:

Proven standard, implementable, internationally recognized

It all started on May 25, 2018: The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) regulated by
now to the processing of personal data and thus the obligations of the
responsible and the rights of data subjects. In the five years of their
data processing in Europe has changed: Digitization is penetrating
almost all areas of life, for many smartphones and cloud computing are self-
become comprehensible, and the applications of artificial intelligence
take on tasks at work and in private life.

Awareness of the rights to information, correction or deletion of
personal data has increased across Europe. The data protection supervisory authority
den handle thousands of complaints every year. Know those responsible
their duties. The concept of a uniform data protection law is considered a success
dell. With the European Data Protection Board, an important body was
create, through common guidelines for data processing, to help
provide legal interpretation. The data protection officers in companies and
Authorities play an important role in data protection on site.

Also in the field of self-regulatory instruments such as codes of conduct (Codes of
Conduct) or certifications, progress has been made. Where interpretation
are disputed, courts decide - sometimes in several instances up to the final
valid clarification by the European Court of Justice.

dr H. c. Marit Hansen, State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein and
this year's Chair of the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
that of the federal and state governments (data protection conference), estimates the situation as follows
a: “The General Data Protection Regulation works. It is a tried and tested means of
to enable the processing of personal data and at the same time the

 

1


to protect fundamental rights. In this way, the GDPR has become a proven benchmark
ckelt, which is also in demand internationally.”

Hansen is not entirely satisfied with the implementation of the newly introduced principle
"Data protection through technology design and through data protection-friendly default
lungs” in Article 25 of the GDPR. She complains: “It would be for those responsible
much easier and fairer if manufacturers and service providers protect data from the start
to incorporate into the development of their products and services. Instead,
We practice again and again in our tests that those responsible from manufacturers
and service providers are left in the dark about how personal data is
be worked. There is also often a lack of a sufficient level of security -
this is presented to us almost daily by a large number of data breach reports
eyes guided.”

The GDPR requires the person responsible to comply with the data protection principles
to be able to prove Hansen states: “Companies and authorities can
fail to be accountable when manufacturers and service providers in their
other offers ignore the GDPR. That needs to turn around: manufacturers and
Service providers should support those responsible in meeting the requirements of the
to comply with GDPR. This is only possible with data protection-compliant products and services.”

The German data protection supervisory authorities work in the data protection conference
together with the aim of upholding and protecting fundamental data protection rights,
uniform application of European and national data protection law
reach and work together for its further development. Hansen makes German
lich: "The European legislator did not design the GDPR as a flash in the pan,
but as a set of rules for decades. Not an easy task given that
technical progress! Where the GDPR remains abstract, concrete
be ted. With the data protection conference, we will continuously
contribute to the essential issues of the processing of personal data
to clarify. This is how the potential of the GDPR can and will continue to unfold.”

 

2


Contact:

Chair of the Data Protection Conference 2023
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98
24103 Kiel
Telephone: 0431 988 1289
Email: dsk2023@datenschutzzentrum.de
https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de

 

3

