1/12

 File No.: EXP202104455

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 31, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the FEDERATION
CASTELLANO-LEONESA DE SALVAMENTO Y SOCORRISMO (hereinafter, the
claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: EXP202104455

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated October 22,
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the CASTELLANO-LEONESA FEDERATION OF
SALVAMENTO Y SOCORRISMO with NIF G47346416 (hereinafter, the part
claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

The claimant states that in order to practice lifeguard sport
as a federation in Castilla y León, the claimed party provides the participants with a
data processing acceptance form that establishes authorizations that are
considered abusive and that require consent to the transfer of rights without
possibility of decision on them.
Among them is the authorization for the transfer of the image without limitation of
"support, without any territorial or temporal limitation, for which the rights are
granted for use throughout the world and unlimitedly", as well as the
authorization for the sending of commercial communications and the communication of
data of the owner to third parties, for the execution of commercial actions by
these.
And, among other things, it provides the following documentation:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

The clauses of the privacy policy of the individualized form, among which
are those mentioned by the complainant:
“I expressly AUTHORIZE the management of my image obtained in the different
activities related to LA FECLESS in which I participate, as well as the dissemination
of the same through web pages, social networks, media, etc. either
any other support, without any territorial or temporal limitation, for which the
rights are granted for use worldwide and unlimited.
I CONSENT to the sending of electronic commercial communications or any other
Type; and communication of the owner's data to third parties, for the execution of actions
business by them. To carry out this treatment, the interested party
You will need to consent below.
SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on November 17, 2021
as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

On February 16, 2022, this Agency received a written response
indicating that the treatments that motivate the claim have not been carried out
at any time, especially "the unlimited treatment of the image throughout the
world."

They state that they have reviewed the data protection policy signed with each
federated, and they will proceed to send a new improved version, to all those who
those who had not been offered the possibility of accepting or denying any of the
treatments.

They accompany as document no. 2, model clause that they are sending to the
federated, for the purpose of updating their consents:

“I AUTHORIZE through the acceptance of this document the purposes of
following treatment:

The purposes of the treatment are the following:

A) Management and organization of activities related to its corporate purpose; Management and
processing of federative licenses; management of requests for information on
courses; the management and organization of training courses; job board management;
insurance processing; diffusion of the news related to the courses of
training through web pages, email and social networks.

The previous data treatments are legitimized based on the article
6.1.a) of the RGPD when there is consent of the affected person or their
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

legal representative, which is specified by accepting this document;
article 6.1.b) when based on the fulfillment of a contractual relationship; article 6.1.c)
of the RGPD when based on the fulfillment of a legal obligation; and article 6.1.f) to
There is legitimate interest on the part of LA FECLESS for the processing of the data.

Likewise, the affected party consents that, in the event that health data is provided,
these are treated, which is justified based on article 9.2.a) of the RGPD, having
granted the interested party or his legal representative his explicit consent,
manifested by signing this document.

B) Management of my image obtained in the different activities related to LA
FECLESS in which I participate, as well as the diffusion of the same through pages
web, social networks, media, etc. or any other support, without
no territorial or temporal limitation, so the rights are granted for your
use worldwide and unlimited. The treatment will be legitimized,
where appropriate, by the consent of the interested party, expressed below (MARK
WHATEVER APPROPRIATE): I CONSENT
I CONSENT [ ]

NO

[ ]

C) Inclusion of my phone number in instant messaging groups or
similar applications, and to be able to send messages through them, to the
effects of managing in an agile way the communications and information that may
be useful. The treatment will be legitimized, where appropriate, by the
consent of the interested party, expressed below (MARK WHAT
PROCEED):

I CONSENT [ ]

I DO NOT CONSENT [ ]

D) FECLESS may market the aforementioned images,
assign them or sell them to third parties, as well as manage sponsorships with their image.
In case of giving your consent to this treatment of images, LA
FEDERATION will become the owner of the image rights inherent to the
themselves. The treatment will be legitimized, where appropriate, by the consent of the
interested party, expressed below (CHECK ALL THAT APPLY):
I CONSENT [ ]

I DO NOT CONSENT [ ]

E) The sending of electronic commercial communications or of any other type; Y
communication of the owner's data to third parties, for the execution of actions
business by them. The treatment will be legitimized, where appropriate,
by the consent of the interested party, expressed below (MARK WHAT
PROCEED):

I CONSENT [ ]

I DO NOT CONSENT [ ]

The data processed will be kept for the period strictly necessary to
comply with the aforementioned purpose or purposes, as well as during the period of
validity of legal obligations”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

THIRD: On January 22, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claimant is informed that his claim has been admitted to
process as three months have elapsed since it entered the AEPD.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of article 6
of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the assumptions in which
that the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not be
application to the treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their
functions”.

 The infringement is typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

a)
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

a)
The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

Article 4.11 of the RGPD defines express consent as: <<All
manifestation of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will by which the
The interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or an affirmative action, the
processing of personal data concerning you>>.

Well, the respondent party provided the participants with an acceptance form
of data processing that established authorizations. This treatment required
register to authorize treatments such as:

-

-

the transfer of the image without limitation of “support, without any limitation
territorial or temporary, so the rights are granted for their
worldwide and unlimited use.

the sending of commercial communications and the communication of data
of the owner to third parties, for the execution of commercial actions by
these.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

-

Include the mobile number in instant messaging and WhatsApp.

All this included in the registration form, without giving the owner of the
data to grant or deny your consent.

Recital 42 of the RGPD, indicates that: <<When the treatment is carried out
With the consent of the data subject, the data controller must be able to
to demonstrate that he has given his consent to the processing operation.

In particular in the context of a written statement made about another
matter, there must be guarantees that the interested party is aware of the fact that he gives
your consent and the extent to which you do so. According to the Directive
93/13/CEE of the Council (LCEur 1993,1071), a model of
declaration of consent previously prepared by the person in charge of the
treatment with an intelligible and easily accessible formulation that uses a language
clear and simple, and that does not contain abusive clauses. For the consent
informed, the interested party must know at least the identity of the person in charge
of the treatment and the purposes of the treatment for which the data is destined
personal. Consent should not be considered freely given when the
The interested party does not enjoy a true or free choice or cannot deny or withdraw their
consent without prejudice>>.
Well, the defendant, being aware of the facts, has proceeded to
modify your form, in this sense you have proceeded to the user must say
explicitly yes or no, but in either case you must perform an action. This,
however, it does not prevent the infraction from having already been committed.
Bearing the foregoing in mind, it should be noted that the party claimed in its
modification of the form, specifically and with respect to the treatment of the image
informs of the purpose states: “I expressly authorize the management of my image
obtained in the different activities related to LA FECLESS in which
participate, as well as its dissemination through web pages, social networks,
media etc or any other support, without any territorial limitation
nor temporary, so the rights are granted for use worldwide
and unlimitedly.

Hence, the violation of the RGPD does not reside only in the inexistence of
granting of consent in relation to the different operations of the
treatment contained in the form. But for each of those
operations does not specify the purpose that is intended to give the data collected.

This prevents the consent from being valid, since to be valid it must comply with
all requirements. The aforementioned Recital 42, which indicates that “For
consent is informed, the interested party must know at least the
identity of the person in charge of the treatment and the purposes of the treatment to which they are
intended personal data." And he goes on to state that “a
model declaration of consent previously prepared by the person in charge
of treatment with an intelligible and easily accessible formulation that uses a
clear and simple language, and that does not contain abusive clauses”, which is not fulfilled
in this case by comprising clearly disproportionate treatments.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

In this regard, remember that the consent granted implies powers as
broad as the following:

-

-

-

“Management of my image obtained in the different activities related to
with LA FECLESS in which I participate, as well as its dissemination to
through websites, social networks, media, etc. either
any other support, without any territorial or temporal limitation, therefore
that the rights are granted for use throughout the world and
unlimitedly”

“Inclusion of my phone number in instant messaging groups
or similar applications, and to be able to send messages through
these, for the purpose of agilely managing communications and
information that may be useful to you.

“Commercialize with the aforementioned images, transfer them or
sell them to third parties, as well as manage sponsorships with their image”

The purposes for which consent is obtained are not detailed, and in addition
if granted, clearly disproportionate powers are granted for the
treatment of the affected data. This violates article 6.1 of the RGPD.

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

IV

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:
b) direct any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning when
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.
 

v

The determination of the sanction to be imposed in this case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case effective,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.” (The underlining is from the AEPD)”.

In order to specify the amount of the penalty to be imposed on the person claimed for violation
of article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, it is essential to examine and assess whether the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

circumstances described in article 83.2 of the RGPD for which the company is responsible.
claimed party, in an initial assessment, the following are considered concurrent
aggravating factors:

The obvious link between the data controller and data processing (article 83.2 K,
of the RGPD in relation to article 76.2 b, of the LOPDGDD).

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on the person claimed and
set it at the amount of €2,000 for the infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD.

Without prejudice to what derives from the instruction of the procedure, between the powers
corrective measures contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2 d) it is established
that each control authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

In such a case, this Agency may require the person in charge to adapt the
processing of personal data carried out in accordance with data protection regulations
in accordance with what is indicated in the preceding Legal Basis.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,
By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST:
START SANCTION PROCEDURE to FEDERATION
CASTELLANO-LEONESA OF RESCUE AND FIRST-RESISTANCE with NIF G47346416,
for the alleged infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD typified in article 83.5.a) of the
quoted GDPR.
SECOND: APPOINT D. B.B.B. as instructor. and as secretary to Ms. C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, the
information requirements that the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection
sent to the entity claimed in the preliminary investigation phase and their respective
acknowledgments of receipt
FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1-
tubre, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be 2,000 euros (two thousand euros), without prejudice
of what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to the CASTELLANO-LEONESA FEDERATION
OF RESCUE AND FIRST AID with NIF G47346416, granting a period of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

hearing of ten business days to formulate the allegations and present the
tests you deem appropriate. In your statement of arguments, you must provide your
NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading of this
document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at 1,600 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 1,600 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 1,200 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, 1,600 euros or 1,200 euros, you must make it effective through
your deposit in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating
in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes
Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On April 21, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 1200 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202104455, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the FEDERACION CASTELLANO-
LEONESA OF RESCUE AND HELP.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

936-240122

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

