1/13

 Procedure No.: PS/00470/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE POLICE, (hereinafter, "the party claimed"), in
by virtue of the three claims filed by: A.A.A., (claimant 1);
B.B.B., (claimant 2) and C.C.C., (claimant 3); (hereinafter, "the claimants"), for
alleged infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons in what
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data
(RGPD) and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights, (LOPDGDD), and based on:

FACTS

FIRST: On 04/16/21, they had entry in this Agency, three writings
identical claims of three people, in which it was indicated, among others, what
Next:

“Last 03/20/21, the demonstration that ran through the center of Madrid
passed without incident. I did not witness any act of disobedience, disorder
public or violence by any person during its entire journey.

Around 6:50 p.m. at Atocha station, several agents approached
me and they asked me to go with them to one of the columns of the station, to the
asking them why they only answered me that they show them my documentation, they don't
They gave no further explanation. Once in the column they took my ID and
They searched by spreading my legs and making me face the wall. After a while I
They returned my ID and allowed me to leave. I decided to leave the demonstration
heading from the Paseo del Prado to the Paseo de la Infanta Isabel, where several
agents prevented me from leaving, informing me that in order to leave the concentration
I had to go to the end of Calle Claudio Moyano. When I got there, other agents
They blocked the passage again, one of them informed me that he could only do so if I showed them
my documentation again and photographed him, asking the reason the only
The answer was to do it or I couldn't get out. I accepted, gave the agent my
document, photographed it with a phone and gave it back to me and I left. Even though it
verbally required, at no time was I informed of the reason why I was
I was identifying. There are different videos on the internet of how the
identifications by taking photographs of the DNI.

At no time did they inform me if the cell phones belonged to the Ministry of
Interior, of the National Police Corps or if, on the contrary, they were the property of the police.
In the event that the mobiles were for the personal use of the police, it would be
violating the provisions of the data protection legislation.

SECOND: On 05/13/21, this Agency sent a letter of
request for information on the aspects indicated in the claim, to the D.G. of the
Police, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

THIRD: On 06/11/21, the D.G. of the Police sends to this Agency a letter of
answer, in which, among others, it indicates the following:

“On March 20 of this year, a police device was established in the Plaza
of Carlos V and surroundings in compliance with the Order of Service established to
these effects, on the occasion of a demonstration not communicated to the Delegation of the
Government of Madrid. Because the demonstration had not been communicated to the
Delegation of the Government of Madrid, and in order to avoid incidents similar to those
occurred previously, we proceeded to identify the people who
They came to the place to be part of it.

The aforementioned identifications were made by photographing the documents of
identity with an official mobile phone belonging to the Head of the Nucleus of the Unit
acting, complying for these purposes with the provisions of LO 4/2015 on Protection
of Citizen Security.

Once the identification was made, the images of the DNI taken were
immediately deleted from the mobile device, without being used at that time
nor in a later one, for a purpose other than the one that motivated the police action or to be
necessary for any subsequent diligence. Taking pictures is a way of
exceptional procedure in certain circumstances at the time of Pandemic in the
that the agents comply with all possible precautions in order to avoid a risk to the
Health.

The aforementioned action has been endorsed by the Deputy Directorate of Operations at the
understand that there has been no treatment of the photograph taken and that this
proceeding has been exceptional and motivated by their own precautions aimed at limiting
to the maximum any risk to the health of the acting officials. This form of
action was considered opportune, having assessed the circumstances and the situation of
Existing pandemic in order to avoid direct contact with identified people and
with the belongings of this, which redounds in benefit of the protection of the health
of the interveners, all this trying to carry it out in the most aseptic way
possible. The sole purpose of taking an image of the identity document, given
the circumstances in which the identification was made was to avoid the manipulation of
east, and maintain the safety distance recommended by the Authorities
sanitary.

FOURTH: On 09/17/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreement is issued for the admission of claims processing
presented, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD Law, having appreciated
possible rational indications of a violation of the rules in the field of
powers of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FIFTH: On 11/19/21, by the Board of Directors of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, a sanctioning procedure is initiated against the General Directorate of the
Police, upon appreciating reasonable indications of violation of the RGPD, for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, considering that, with the realization of a
photograph of the DNI to the person who was being identified, a treatment
excessive use of personal data in relation to the purpose for which they were being
collecting.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

SIXTH: Once the initial agreement has been notified to the General Directorate of the Police, it
By means of a document dated 11/30/21, it formulated, in summary, the following allegations:

“FIRST.- On March 20, 2021, a police device was established in the Plaza
of Carlos V of the town of Madrid and surroundings, on the occasion of a
manifestation not communicated to the Delegation of the Government of Madrid, whose purpose
sought to avoid incidents similar to those that have occurred recently,
proceeding to the identification of the people who accessed the place to form
part of this.

As for the details of the context in which such identifications were developed,
contained in the report of the demonstration prepared by the 1st Unit of
Police Intervention, in which the following points are detailed:

- The act consisted of a demonstration not communicated to the Government Delegation,
failing to comply with the requirements of article 21 of the Spanish Constitution. The
prior communication does not pursue anything other than the knowledge of the
competent authority to determine the necessary security measures in this
type of events, in order to encourage the exercise of this right,
is developed with the maximum guarantees of security and respect for the rights and
freedoms, both of the demonstrators, and of the rest of the users of the roads along which
that runs the same, in such a way that the absence of this requirement makes difficult the
organization of its security device.

- The attendance of an approximate number of 600 participants was computed.

- Conveners: groups of the extreme left, anti-fascists and anarchists, among
others.

- During the act the following phrases were chanted: “Madrid will be the tomb of the
fascism”, “free political prisoners”, “police out of the neighborhoods of Madrid”, “Police
assassin”, among others. - Members of the security device: UIP units,
UPR, Mobile Brigade, Air Media…

In this context, considering the high risk of producing altercations during the
manifestation, which could be typified by Organic Law 10/1995, of 23
November, of the Penal Code as crimes of damages, crimes of public disorder or
crimes committed on the occasion of the exercise of fundamental rights and
public liberties guaranteed by the Constitution, given the characteristics previously
reported, as well as the risk of attack against the agents of the authority, in view
of the verbal manifestations of the attendees, all this coupled with the risk of contagion
by the Covid-19 virus, which multiplies in these massive acts, the Head of the
Device is the one who decides about the use of security measures that
are more appropriate to the circumstances.

In the case at hand, the atmosphere of intimidation against members of the
Security Forces and Bodies, together with the other concurrent circumstances,
They advised taking extreme precautions and speeding up interventions as much as possible.
with the demonstrators, which is why this means of identification was chosen, which

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

as has already been said, it is an exceptional means, and it was used with due guarantees
security in data processing.

SECOND.- During this security device, they were identified
several people, including the claimants.

These identifications were made by photographing the identity documents with a
official mobile phone, exceptional practice in the exercise of this type of diligence,
opting for it following the indications of the health authorities
regarding the maintenance of personal distance, and trying in this way to limit the
maximum the time of contact with the identified people while maintaining the
adequate separation during the relevant police checks regarding the
document, in order to protect the health of both the officials involved and the
the persons to be identified. The images captured in this way were
immediately deleted from the corporate device once the identity is verified
of individuals, without leaving any trace of them, not even in the same
terminal or in any other file, mass storage device of
digital information or telematic data repository.

3 It is worth noting that the mobile phone with which the photographs were taken was a
official mobile phone, whose use is only authorized for questions
related to police activity, this device is always under
custody of the Head of the Nucleus of the acting Unit and equipped with security measures
specific.

THIRD.- Regarding these facts, the individuals mentioned above filed
claim before the AEPD, which on 05/13/21 required the General Directorate of the
Police, for the referral of the report, which was evacuated on 06/11/21.

Having seen the aforementioned report, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
(hereinafter, AEPD), issued an Agreement for the Admission of Claims
presented, in accordance with article 65 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter, LPDGDD), having appreciated possible rational indications of a
Violation of the rules in the field of competence of the AEPD.

Next, the Data Inspection of this AEPD, considering that the
processing of personal data carried out by the General Directorate of the Police does not
complied with the conditions imposed by current legislation on the protection of
data, proceeded to open this file.

FOURTH.- This Unit does not share the criteria of the AEPD, since the same
contains an erroneous assessment, both with respect to the circumstances relating to the
practice of identifications, as well as in terms of the legal foundation applied
to the processing of personal data, which is why it is considered the
inadmissibility of the proposed sanction and an appeal is made to file this
procedure, all of which is based on the following legal foundations:

I.- Regarding the identification diligence. The aforementioned Agreement carries out an analysis of
Organic Law 4/2015 of March 30, on the protection of citizen security (in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

forward, LOPSC), referring, firstly, to the preamble where it is indicated
that “…the competent authorities are empowered to agree on different actions
aimed at maintaining and, where appropriate, restoring tranquility
citizen in cases of public insecurity, precisely regulating the
budgets, purposes and requirements to carry out these procedures, in accordance with
the principles, among others, of proportionality, minimal interference and
discrimination…".

Reference is also made to articles 9, on the obligations and rights of the
holder of the National Identity Document and to article 16.1, which specifies
the assumptions in which the Security Forces and Bodies may require the
identification of the persons (“When there are indications that they may have participated
in the commission of an infraction, when it is necessary to prevent a crime…”),
and allusion is made to the strict respect for the principles of proportionality, equality of
treatment and non-discrimination on the grounds of birth, nationality, racial or ethnic origin,
gender, religion or belief, age, disability, sexual orientation or identity, opinion
or any other personal or social condition or circumstance, which must necessarily
govern the practice of identification diligence.

Needless to say, the police action was carried out with absolute respect for the principles
contained in article 16.1 LOPSC (proportionality, equal treatment and
discrimination), extremes that the complainants have not questioned, focusing the
complaint of citizens only in the medium used for the practice of the
ID. Specifically, the complainants affirm that "at no time
reported whether the cell phones belonged to the Ministry of the Interior, the National Corps
of Police or if on the contrary they were property of the police, in the case they denounce that,
"It would be violating the provisions of data protection legislation."

In this regard, it should be noted that there is no obligation in current regulations
express right to inform officials about the ownership of the material
used in police services and it is not usual for the legality of
the interventions of the agents before the unfounded belief of the use of means of
particular ownership, since among the means and instruments of police endowment
find mobile phones, tablets, PDAs and other devices
electronics provided with the necessary guarantees.

Indeed, the use of electronic devices is becoming more and more common in
different police services and its purpose is to streamline police actions,
optimizing available resources without undermining citizen guarantees and
reducing intervention times, which results in quality standards
of the police service and the safety of the officers themselves.

Article 16.2 LOPSC does contemplate the use of any means available to the
agents that favor the act of identification. Article 16.2 LOPSC.- When not
identification was possible by any means, including telematics or
telephone, or if the person refused to identify himself, the agents, to prevent the
commission of a crime or for the purpose of sanctioning an infraction, they may require
who could not be identified to accompany them to the dependencies
nearest police (...).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

Based on this authorization, the officials who carried out these procedures,
used the means available to them, especially considering the circumstances
exceptions in the context of the international pandemic caused by the coronavirus
SARS-CoV-2, in order to practice identification with a medium that facilitated the
intervention by minimizing interpersonal contact, as has been said
previously, following the indications of the health authorities in this regard and
with scrupulous respect for data protection regulations in what refers to
to the processing of this personal data because, as already indicated, once the
necessary checks, the images were deleted without the same
no trace will remain in any police file.

It can be affirmed, therefore, that the police action of crime prevention and
maintenance of public order was specifically accommodated to the basic principles
of action established in article 5 of Organic Law 2/1986, of March 13,
of Security Forces and Bodies, as well as the provisions of the LOPSC itself.

II.- Applicable regulations regarding the protection of personal data.

The act that gives rise to this procedure consists of the proceedings of
identification that were made during the demonstrations in the town
Madrid, on March 20, 2021.

The identification diligence, as can be deduced from the aforementioned articles
of the LOPSC, is part of the activity that, in terms of prevention of
criminal and administrative offenses are carried out by the Security Forces and Bodies.
It should be noted again that many unreported manifestations, such as the
that is the object of analysis that was already preceded by others that had episodes
violent, are usually taken advantage of by individuals or groups who, protected by the
multitude carry out criminal acts that must be prevented by the Forces and
Security Forces to guarantee citizen security and the free development of
fundamental rights and public freedoms of other citizens.

Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights, alleged by the AEPD to initiate the procedure
sanctioning, expressly excludes from its scope of application to this matter,
determining in article 2.2 of the same: Article 2 LPDGDD.- 2. This organic law
will not apply: 6 a) To treatments excluded from the scope of application of the
General data protection regulation by its article 2.2, without prejudice to the
provided in sections 3 and 4 of this article.

In this sense, article 2.2.d) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the Parliament
European and Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data, regulates the material scope of the same, and
excludes the processing of personal data carried out by the authorities
authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offenses, or the execution of criminal sanctions, including protection
against threats to public safety and their prevention.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

For all of the above, the references that in the Agreement to Start the Procedure
Sanctioning are made to this Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, are
unfounded and devoid of any basis and legal basis, to the extent that the
matter on which it deals is expressly excluded from its scope of
app.

In this way, the processing of personal data by the authorities
competent for purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offenses or execution of criminal sanctions, at the time of the
facts that give rise to this sanctioning procedure, continued to be
object of regulation by articles 23 and 24 of LO 15/1999, of December 13,
Protection of Personal Data, by virtue of the provisions of the
Additional provision 14 LPDGDD (“Rules issued in development of article 13 of
Directive 95/46/CE.

The rules issued in application of article 13 of Directive 95/46/EC of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of October 24, 1995, on the protection
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free circulation of these data, which would have entered into force prior to 25
of May 2018, and in particular articles 23 and 24 of Organic Law 15/1999, of
December 13, Protection of Personal Data, are still in force in
as long as they are not expressly modified, replaced or repealed”) and the Provision
Transitory 4 LPDGDD (“Processing subject to Directive (EU) 2016/680. The
treatments subject to Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons in relation to
regarding the processing of personal data by the authorities
competent for purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, and the free circulation of
such data and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA,
will continue to be governed by Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, and in 7
particularly article 22, and its development provisions, as long as the law does not enter into force.
rule that transposes the provisions of the aforementioned directive into Spanish Law”).

Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, contained a brief regulation
regarding the protection of personal data processed for purposes of prevention or
investigation of criminal offenses, which was limited to articles 23 and 24 of the
itself and that in no way limited operational actions such as the one analyzed,
even recognizing certain exceptions to the general regulations on
Data Protection. Article 23. Exceptions to the rights of access, rectification and
cancellation. LO 15/99.- 1. Those responsible for the files containing the data to
referred to in sections 2, 3 and 4 of the previous article may deny access,
rectification or cancellation based on the dangers that could arise for the
defense of the State or public security, the protection of rights and freedoms
of third parties or the needs of the investigations that are being carried out. (…)
Article 24. Other exceptions to the rights of those affected. LO 15/99.- 1. The
The provisions of sections 1 and 2 of article 5 shall not apply to the collection of data
when the information to the affected prevents or seriously hinders compliance with the
control and verification functions of the Administrations or when it affects the
National Defense, public security or the prosecution of criminal offenses or
administrative.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

On the other hand, regarding the use of video cameras by the Armed Forces and
Security is concerned, the regulatory framework was given by Organic Law 4/1997,
of August 4, which regulates the use of video cameras by the Forces and
Security Forces in public places, which, however, did not refer in its
articulated no limitation or required any authorization regarding the use of
Photo cameras. III.- Regarding the merits of the matter: Notwithstanding the foregoing,
that would prevent the application of the LPDGDD for exceeding its scope of application, the
Agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure, in its point IV, analyzes the
alleged excessive processing of personal data of the protesters, and refers to
an alleged violation of the provisions of article 5 LPDGDD, in which section
1.c) specifies that "the processing of personal data must be appropriate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
treated”, known as the principle of data minimization. Thus, it is valued
need for treatment, and it is concluded that the fact that police officers
take photographs of the DNI of the people who accessed the place to form
part of it (...) in order to, (...) avoid incidents similar to those that occurred with
previously (...), it could have involved 8 excessive processing of the data
personal, contrary to the principle of data minimization (art. 5.1 c), considering
that the situation existing at that time made it possible to carry out a collection
less invasive data, which does not contradict the indicated principle, provided
respecting, of course, the health security of the agents regarding the situation
of pandemic that was suffered.”

The aforementioned criterion is not shared by this Unit, since it is indisputable that
the collection of the data by means of the method habitually used, consisting of the
exhibition of the document by its holder to the agent and the consequent copy of
the data by the latter, necessarily requires a temporary space of
close contact greater than the time required to take the photograph
to the document. Therefore, if what is sought by the agents is the minimization of
times of interpersonal contact, as well as avoiding the manipulation of
documents for health security measures, it is necessary to resort to the
resources available to facilitate this task.

In other words, a less invasive data collection was possible, but this
possibility would be detrimental to the safety of agents and individuals, by
extend the time of interpersonal contact, and in the case of agents, this
The increase in risk rises exponentially in massive acts such as the one that
caused the identifications that are now being evaluated, without prejudice to the fact that against his
will and in compliance with their obligations, may also act as
vectors of contagion with respect to third parties.

Therefore, having accredited the need and suitability of the means used for the purposes of
reduce interpersonal contact times, and maintain the social distance that
health authorities had been demanding, it can be affirmed that the intervention of the
police consisting of the identification of these three individuals was subjected
scrupulously to the principle of data minimization.

IV.- Qualification of the infraction: Finally, and with regard to the qualification of the
facts, the Data Inspection of the AEPD, incardinates the same in the very lack

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

serious, typified in article 72.1.a) LOPDGDD, which includes the consistent infringement
in: a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. A behavior similar to
above is also typified by Organic Law 7/2,021, of May 26, of
protection of personal data processed for the purposes of prevention, detection,
investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. Specifically, his article
58.a), typifies the very serious offense consisting of "the processing of personal data that
violates the 9 principles and guarantees established in article 6 or without concurrence
any of the conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 11,
provided that damages of a very serious nature are caused to the interested parties”.

In any case, this conduct would not coincide with the facts prosecuted, as
as soon as the identification procedures carried out by the agents were
solely oriented to the prevention of acts typified as a crime in view of
facts with similar antecedents and causes, being, on the contrary, actions
police operations covered by the LOPSC and executed based on the principle of
proportionality, suitability and minimal intervention, given that they only intended
guarantee citizen security and prevent the consummation of criminal acts
through prevention. In any case, none of the normative bodies
referred to would be applicable to the case analyzed, as has been stated
previously: one for being excluded from its scope of application and the second, for its
lack of validity and absence of serious damage caused to any of the
those affected required by the standard.

PROVEN FACTS:

1º.- According to the claimants, when they tried to leave the demonstration in which
were participating, a police control that was in one of the streets
adjacent to the demonstration required them to identify themselves. when they showed them
the DNI, one of the agents took a photograph of the document and returned it to him.

2º.- In the written claims presented, it is indicated that, “at no time will
reported whether the cell phones belonged to the Ministry of the Interior, the National Corps
of Police or if on the contrary they were property of the police”, in the case they denounce that,
"It would be violating the provisions of the legislation on data protection."

3º.- For its part, the General Directorate of the Police indicates, in its letter of
response to this Agency, dated 06/11/21, indicated, among others, the following:

- That due to the fact that the demonstration had not been communicated to the Delegation
of the Government of Madrid, and in order to avoid incidents similar to those that occurred
previously, we proceeded to identify the people who accessed
to the place to be part of it.

- That the identifications were made by photographing the DNI with a telephone

official cell phone belonging to the Head of the Nucleus of the acting Unit.

- That, once the identification was made, the images of the DNI taken were
immediately deleted from the mobile device, without being used in that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

time or at a later time, for a purpose other than the one that motivated the action
police or be necessary for any further proceedings.

- That taking photographs is an exceptional way of proceeding in
certain circumstances in times of pandemic in which agents
take all possible precautions in order to avoid a health risk.

- That the police action has been endorsed by the Deputy Directorate of Operations at the
understand that there has been no treatment of the photograph taken and that
this procedure has been exceptional and motivated by the own precautions
aimed at minimizing any risk to the health of officials
acting.

4º.- Initiated the sanctioning procedure, within the period of allegations, The
The General Directorate of the Police affirmed, in its pleadings brief, among others, that
Next:

- That the act consisted of a demonstration not communicated to the Delegation of the
Government, failing to comply with the requirements of article 21 of the Constitution
Spanish.

- That the attendance of an approximate number of 600 people was computed, of

groups of the extreme left, anti-fascists and anarchists, among others.

- That during the act the following phrases were chanted: “Madrid will be the tomb
of fascism”, “free political prisoners”, “police out of the neighborhoods of
Madrid”, “Police killer”, among others. - Members of the device
security: UIP units, UPR, Mobile Brigade, Air Resources…

- That, in this context, the high risk of producing altercations was assessed
during the demonstration, which could be typified by the Penal Code
such as crimes of damage, crimes of public disorder or crimes committed with
opportunity to exercise fundamental rights and freedoms
guaranteed by the Constitution, given the characteristics previously
reported,

- That, as well as the risk of attack against the agents of the authority, at the
view of the verbal manifestations of the attendees, all this together with the
risk of contagion by the Covid-19 virus, which multiplies in these acts
crowded, the Head of the Device is the one who decides about the use
security measures that are most appropriate to the circumstances.

- That, in the case at hand, the atmosphere of intimidation against
members of the Security Forces and Bodies, together with the other
concurrent circumstances, advised taking extreme precautions and expediting
interventions with the demonstrators as much as possible, which is why
opted for this means of identification, it is an exceptional means, and it was used with
due security guarantees in data processing.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

- That the officials who carried out these proceedings used the means
available at your fingertips, especially taking into account the circumstances
exceptional circumstances of the international pandemic context motivated by the
coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, in order to practice identification with a
that facilitated the intervention by minimizing interpersonal contact, which
as stated above, following the instructions of the authorities
in this regard and with scrupulous respect for the regulations of
data protection with regard to the processing of these data
personal.

- That the identifications were made by photographing the identification documents
identity with an official mobile phone belonging to the Head of the Nucleus of the
acting unit.

- That, once the necessary checks were made, the images were
deleted without leaving any trace of them in any file
police.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I.- Competition:

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

II- On the alleged excessive processing of personal data of the protesters.

Article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles related to the treatment of personal data.
personal data by the person in charge and/or in charge of them and in its section
1.c) it is specified that, “the treatment of personal data must be adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed”.
known as the “data minimization” principle.

It should be clarified that this article does not limit the excess of data, but the need. It is
In other words, the personal data will be “adequate, pertinent and limited to the need”,
for which they were collected, in such a way that, taking into account the circumstances
occurred at the time, if the objective pursued to obtain the data
could have been reached by other means, without carrying out a treatment
excessive data, it should have been used, in any case. That's how it marks
also in recital 39 of the RGPD, when it indicates that: "Personal data
should only be processed if the purpose of the processing could not reasonably be achieved
By other means."

In the case at hand, the police officers took photographs of the IDs of
the people identified in the demonstration under the following circumstances:
that the demonstration, attended by some 600 people, by groups of extreme
left, anti-fascists and anarchists, among others; was not communicated to
Government Delegation; that during the act phrases were chanted such as: “Madrid will be
the tomb of fascism”, “free political prisoners”, “police out of the neighborhoods of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

Madrid”, “Police killer”, among others; and that, in this context, the high risk
production of altercations during the demonstration, as well as attacks against the
agents of the authority, all this, together with the risk of contagion by the Covid-19 virus, the
which has been found to multiply in these massive acts.

The fact that it was advised to take extreme precautions and to expedite as much as possible the
interventions with protesters, using an exceptional means of identification
how to take pictures with an official mobile phone belonging to the Directorate
General of the Police, made it possible that, in the work of identifying the demonstrators
interpersonal contact between them and the agents was reduced. All this coupled with,
once the necessary identification checks have been made, the images
taken with the mobile were deleted without leaving any trace in any file
police, as confirmed by the D.G. from the police.

Therefore, according to the evidence available at this time, it is considered
so that the use of the official mobile phone of the acting unit for taking photos
photographs of the DNI of the claimants, in such exceptional circumstances as those
exposed above, complies with the principle of data minimization, collected
in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, even more so when they were eliminated from the dis-
positive once the objective for which they were deleted has been fulfilled, leaving no
trace of them in any file of the D.G. from the police.

In this sense, and in accordance with the provisions of article 89.1.a) of Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(LPCAP) where it is established, regarding the Proposed Resolution in the pro-
sanctioning procedures that:

1. The investigating body will resolve the completion of the procedure, with a file of the
actions, without it being necessary to formulate the resolution proposal,
when in the instruction of the procedure it is made clear that there is: a) The
inexistence of the facts that could constitute the infraction (...)”.

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE this sanctioning procedure against
the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE POLICE, for the alleged infringement of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
POLICEMAN.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

