 

 

 

 

 

Information Note on data transfers under the GDPR in the 

event of a no-deal Brexit 

Adopted on 12 February 2019 

Introduction  
 
In  the  absence  of  an  agreement  between  the  EU  and  the  UK  (No-deal  Brexit),  the  UK  will 
become a third country from 00.00 am CET on 30 March 2019.This means that the transfer of 
personal data to the UK has to be based on one of the following instruments1 as of 30 March 
2019: 
- Standard or ad hoc Data Protection Clauses 
- Binding Corporate Rules 
- Codes of Conduct and Certification Mechanisms 
- Derogations2 
 
This  note  provides  information  to  commercial  and  public  organisations  on  these  transfer 
instruments under the GDPR for the transfer of personal data to the UK in the event of a no-
deal Brexit 
 
The EDPB builds upon the guidance provided on this matter by supervisory authorities and by 
the European Commission. EU organisations may turn, if necessary, to the national supervisory 
authorities competent to oversee the related processing activities. 
 

 

                                                 
1 See Chapter V of GDPR. 
2  These  can  be  used  only  in  the  absence  of  Standard  Data  Protection  Clauses  or  other  alternative  appropriate 
safeguards. 

I. 5 steps organisations should take to prepare for a no-deal Brexit 
 
When transferring data to the UK, you should: 
 

1

2

3

4

5

 
 

• Identify what processing activities will imply a personal data transfer to 

the UK

• Determine the appropriate data transfer instrument for your situation 

(see below)

• Implement the chosen data transfer instrument to be ready for 30 March 

2019

• Indicate in your internal documentation that transfers will be made to 

the UK

• Update your privacy notice accordingly to inform individuals

 

II. Data transfers from the EU to the UK  

1. Available transfer instruments 
 
In the absence of an adequacy decision3 at the time of the Brexit, the following are the available 
data transfer instruments.  

a. Standard and ad hoc Data Protection Clauses  
 
You  and  your  UK  counterpart  may  agree  on  the  use  of  Standard  Data  Protection  Clauses 
approved  by  the  European  Commission.  These  contracts  offer  the  additional  adequate 
safeguards with respect to data protection that are needed in case of a transfer of personal data 
to any third country.  
 
 
 

                                                 
3 An adequacy decision is a decision adopted by the European Commission on the  basis of article 45 of GDPR 
(for example, the adequacy decision on Japan adopted by the Commission on 23rd January 2019. Previously, the 
EC had also adopted adequacy decisions on third countries such as Argentina, New Zealand and Israel, amongst 
others). At the moment, there is no such an adequacy decision in place for the UK. 

2 

 

 
Three sets of Standard Data Protection Clauses are currently available:  
 

•  EU controller to third country (eg. UK) controller: 2 Sets are available:  

o  2001/497/EC 
o  2004/915/EC 

•  EU controller to third country (eg. UK) processor  

o  2010/87/EC 

 
It is important to note that the Standard Data Protection Clauses may not be modified and must 
be  signed  as  provided.  However,  these  contracts  may  be  included  in  a  wider  contract  and 
additional clauses might be added provided that they do not contradict, directly or indirectly, 
the Standard Data Protection Clauses adopted by the European Commission. Considering the 
timeframe before the 30th of March, the EDPB acknowledges that the Standard Data Protection 
Clauses is a ready-to-use instrument. 
 
Any further modifications to the Standard Data Protection Clauses will imply that this will be 
considered as ad-hoc contractual clauses. This can provide appropriate safeguards taking into 
account your particular situation.  
 
Prior to any transfer, these tailored contractual clauses must be authorised by the competent 
national supervisory authority, following an opinion of the EDPB. 

b. Binding Corporate Rules 
 
Binding  Corporate  Rules  are  personal  data  protection  policies  adhered  to  by  group  of 
undertakings  (ie.  multinationals)  in  order  to  provide  appropriate  safeguards  for  transfers  of 
personal data within the group, including outside of the EU.  
 
You may have already in place BCRs or cooperate with processors which make use of BCRs 
for  Processors.  Organisations  may  still  rely  on  these  BCRs  authorised  under  the  former 
Directive 95/46/EC which remain valid under the GDPR4. These BCRs need however to be 
updated to be fully in line with the GDPR provisions.  
 
If you do not have BCRs in place, they must be approved by the competent national supervisory 
authority, following an opinion of the EDPB. 
 
You can find further explanations on the conditions to apply for Binding Corporate Rules on 
the EDPB website.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                 
4 According to  Art. 46.5 GDPR. Please note that BCRs authorised under former Directive 95/46/EC remained 
valid under the GDPR, but need to be updated to be fully in line with GDPR provisions.  

3 

 

c. Codes of conduct and certification mechanisms 
 
A code of conduct or a certification mechanism can offer appropriate safeguards for transfers 
of personal data if they contain binding and enforceable commitments by the organisation in 
the third country for the benefit of the individuals.  
 
These tools are new under the GDPR and the EDPB is working on guidelines in order to give 
more explanations on the harmonized conditions and procedure for using these tools. 
 

2. Derogations  
 
It is important to underline that the derogations allow the data transfers under certain conditions 
and  are  exceptions  to  the  rule  of  having  put  in  place  appropriate  safeguards  (see  the  above 
mentioned instruments like BCRs, standard data protection clauses...) or transfer the data on 
the basis of an adequacy decision. They must therefore be interpreted restrictively and mainly 
relate to processing activities that are occasional and non-repetitive5.  
 
These derogations include amongst others according to article 49 GDPR: 

•  where an individual has explicitly consented to the proposed transfer after having been 

provided with all necessary information about the risks associated with the transfer; 

•  where  the  transfer  is  necessary  for  the  performance  or  the  conclusion  of  a  contract 
between the individual and the controller or the contract is concluded in the interest of 
the individual; 
if the data transfer is necessary for important reasons of public interest. 
if the data transfer is necessary for the purposes of compelling legitimate interests of 
the organisation. 

• 
• 

 
You can find further explanations on available derogations and how to apply them in the EDPB 
Guidelines on Article 49 of GDPR. 
 

3. Instruments exclusively available to public authorities or bodies  
 
Public  authorities  may  consider  to  use  the  mechanisms  which  the  GDPR  considers  more 
appropriate to their situation.  
 
One option is to use a legally binding and enforceable instrument, such as  an administrative 
agreement, a bilateral or multilateral international agreement. The agreement must be binding 
and enforceable for the signatories.  
 
The  second  option  is  to  use  administrative  arrangements,  such  as  Memoranda  of 
Understanding, which although not legally binding must however provide for enforceable and 
effective data subject rights. The administrative arrangements are subject to an authorisation 
by  the  competent  national  supervisory  authority,  following  an  opinion  of  the  EDPB. 
 

                                                 
5 See recital 113 and article 49.1 GDPR 

 

4 

In  addition,  the  abovementioned  derogations  are  also  available  for  transfers  by  public 
authorities, subject to the application of the relevant conditions.  
 
For  public  authorities  exercising  criminal  law  enforcement  functions6,  additional  transfer 
tools are available7. 

III. Data transfers from the UK to EU Members   
 
According to the UK Government, the current practice, which permits personal data to flow 
freely from the UK to the EU, will continue in the event of a no-deal Brexit8.  
 
To this end, the UK Government’s and the ICO’s website should be regularly consulted.  
 

_________________________ 

 
 
 
 

                                                 
6 They will fall under the scope of the Law Enforcement Directive. 
7 See Article 37(1)(b) and 38 LED. For instance, transfers may take place when the EU authority concludes that 
appropriate safeguards exist in the third country following a (self-)assessment of all circumstances surrounding 
the transfer. Moreover, additional derogations for specific situations may be applicable (see Article 38 LED).  
8https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/data-protection-if-theres-no-brexit-deal/data-protection-if-theres-
no-brexit-deal  

5 

 

