Case number: NAIH / 2020/1160/10
History: NAIH / 2019/7105
Clerk:

Object:

decision
ex officio
starting
privacy
official
procedure

DECISION
The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: the Authority) is the Digi
Electronically by Távközlési és Szolgáltató Kft. (Registered office: 1134 Budapest, Váci út 35., company registration number: 01-09667975).
in connection with the data protection incident reported on 25 September […] a
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Articles 5 and 32 to 34 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation). in its articles
ex officio breach of data protection obligations
in official proceedings
1.

notes that
the. the Customer has violated Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
(‘Purpose limitation’) and (e) (‘limited storage capacity’) when the data protection
an incident-related test database originally set up for troubleshooting purposes is required
after running the tests and correcting the error, it was not deleted, so it stored a large number
customer data was obtained in the following […] period without purpose and in a manner suitable for identification
for storage in used systems. The absence of such a measure directly allowed the
the occurrence of a data protection incident and the availability of personal data.
b. Customer has violated Article 32 (1) - (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, thus
not proportionate to the risks to the security of data management
technical and organizational measures, by:
-

the content manager it uses ([…]) has been known for more than 9 years, adequate
could otherwise be detected and repaired
access to the incident through the publicly available digi.hu website
databases;

-

with regard to personal data involved in a data protection incident ([…]) no
applied encryption, which greatly exposes the risks of the incident
increased it.

The lack of these measures directly allowed it to be stored in databases
customer data has also been made available by an ethical hacker who has carried out the attack
through vulnerabilities.
2.

obliges the Customer to review all personal data processed by him
whether encryption is justified and
inform the Authority of the results!

3.

due to the above violations, the Customer shall be notified of the 30th day after the final adoption of this decision
within a day
100,000,000 HUF, ie one hundred million HUF
order to pay a data protection fine;

4.

order the final decision by publishing the identity of the controller, but the
disclosure of business secrets.

The fine is accounted for by the Authority's forint settlement account for the collection of centralized revenues
(10032000-01040425-00000000 Centralized direct debit account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104
0425 0000 0000) must be paid by bank transfer. When transferring the amount, NAIH / 2020/1160
JUDGE. number should be referred to.
If the debtor fails to meet his obligation to pay the fine within the time limit,
is required to pay a late payment allowance. The rate of the late payment allowance is the statutory interest, which is a
equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the calendar half-year affected by the delay. THE
the Authority's centralized revenue collection forint account
(10032000-01040425-00000000 Centralized direct debit).
Failure to comply with the notice under point 2 and fines and default interest under point 3
in the event of non-payment, the Authority shall order enforcement of the decision, the fine and the penalty payment.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but it has been available since its notification
Within 30 days of the application addressed to the Metropolitan Court in an administrative lawsuit
can be challenged. The emergency does not affect the time limit for bringing an action. The application to the Authority
must be submitted electronically, which will forward it to the court together with the case file. The trial
The application for maintenance must be indicated in the application. During the emergency, the court is hearing
acting outside. For non-personal tax exemptions, judicial review
the fee for the proceedings is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record fees. Before the Metropolitan Court
legal representation is mandatory in these proceedings.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I.

Background, clarification of the facts
the. During the incident report and official control received by the Authority
established

1) The Data Protection Report notified electronically by the Client on 25 September 2019
initiated an official investigation into the incident on October 8, 2019, as reported
the information provided was not sufficient to judge that the Customer fully complied
whether it has complied with its obligations under the General Data Protection Regulation, in particular Articles 32 to 34.
provided for in Article
According to the announcement, the Customer became aware on September 23, 2019 at the latest that
an attacker had access to the vulnerability through the www.digi.hu website
about […] the personal data of the data subject, who are the majority (approx. […] persons) of the Customer's customers
and subscribers, and a smaller number (approximately […] people) were subscribers to its newsletter. Customers, subscribers
2

personal data included the names of the data subjects, the name of their mother, their place and date of birth,
address, ID number (if applicable), e-mail address, landline and
mobile phone number.
During the official inspection, the Authority issued NAIH / 2019/7105/2. and NAIH / 2019/7105/4. case number
by its orders, the Client was requested to make a statement and provide documents. Customer Statements
the Authority has established the following during the official control.
2) Customer became aware of the attack as indicated by the attacker (ethical hacker)
to him […]. In his signal, the attacker indicated that, he said, only the affected database was one
requested as evidence and his intentions were of an assistive nature, so the technical nature of the error
explained to Customer. The Customer has subsequently corrected the error, […].
Most of the data involved in the incident (approximately […] people) was generated for testing purposes on […].
They were part of a database called […]. The reason and purpose of creating the test database is
Attempted by scanning client log files, system alerts, and mail
to reconstruct. Because the log files and alerts for the assumed upload time are no longer
were available so it was not possible to reconstruct the events clearly
To a customer. An email from a test colleague […] revealed that […] had an error that
during which the web servers did not reach the database servers. As a result, the
subscriber data is no longer available. Customer assumes this error is temporary
The data, the subscriber data, have been uploaded to the test database in order to eliminate them
to ensure its availability.
The source of the data loaded into the above test database created to resolve the error is
It consisted of personal data previously provided by the data controller's customers. Customers are different
they provided their personal information online or through other sales channels during their claims
across […]. It had the latest […] date resulting in data loaded into the test database
equipped with. In this database, approx. […] Was data provided by a natural person
can be found.
After the above error is resolved, access is restored to the test database
data should have been deleted, but this was not done due to omission. These data a
was unaware of its availability through the above vulnerability until the attacker announced it
To a customer. Access to the data by the attacker could not be detected by the Client
(e.g., based on a network security device signal) before being called by the attacker himself
attention.
In addition to the test database, the attacker had the opportunity to discover the vulnerability
to access another database […] behind the digi.hu website maintained by the Customer, which is
contained the personal data of those who subscribed to the newsletter. Here approx. […] Natural
data provided by the person (name, email address) was found. Based on the tests in this
However, specific personal data stored in a database may not be detected as unauthorized
access according to the Customer. However, due to the vulnerability, the risk of access to this data
also existed.
3) The specific vulnerability was listed on page […]. It was here through the “sort field”
exploit the vulnerability of the website. The reason for the unauthorized access error is that

3

a vulnerability exists in the […] 1 content management system used by Customer that
exploited by the attacker. The vulnerability has been known and available for more than 9 years
there was also a patch that was not previously installed by Customer. This is because of the repair
was not part of the officially released fix packs for the software. After the incident
fix pack 2 is installed.
Customer will not gain additional unauthorized access to the affected data through this vulnerability
showed up. No other circumstance suggested that the data might have been accessed by anyone else
outside the ethical hacker.
4) Customer has also informed the Authority to prevent similar data protection incidents
it regularly checks the databases it manages in order to avoid any specific purpose
personal data is processed / stored. Databases are also provided from time to time
cleans, checks their security, identifies related applications, and
data controllers. In addition, as a result of further external investigation, it will be considered higher
obtain and operate a level firewall.
Customer has internal policies based on the applications it uses
they must be kept up to date and checked regularly for this purpose. The incident
the latest version of the […] system (with which the affected database was managed)
applied an unofficial patch to fix the vulnerability, but it did not. Maga a
vulnerability was in it by the way […]. In this regard, the Client submitted that since the
there are a lot of unofficial fixes for the official version that you can't check.
Regarding the use of open source content management, Customer […] said that
chose this system because it is free, widely used around the world as well
a software that is constantly tested and supported.
Customer […] shall regularly perform vulnerability testing of the systems it uses
using […]. However, this investigation is the occurrence of a privacy incident
did not cover the digi.hu website until the date of Following the incident, the investigation was extended by
Customer to this website as well.
[…]
The attacker who reported the vulnerability […]. The test database named [érintett] involved in the incident
Customer also deleted in the meantime.
b. Initiation of a data protection authority case and further clarification of the facts
1) In addition to further clarifying the facts, Articles 5 and 32-34 of the General Data Protection Regulation in this case apply.
any further breach of the obligations by the Customer under Articles
2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information
CXII. With regard to Section 60 (1) of the Information Act (hereinafter: the Information Act), the
decided to initiate official proceedings on 16 December 2019.

1

[…]

2

[…]

4

In addition to the findings of the official inspection in the case, further clarification of the facts has become available
necessary, the Authority should therefore amend NAIH / 2020/1160. and NAIH / 2020/1160/3. with his orders no
called on the Client to make statements and provide documents, for which the deadline was reached
answered. Based on the Client's statements, the Authority clarified the official inspection
In addition to the circumstances, it found the following during the official procedure.
2) The Customer is presented in detail with the help of a diagram and description involved in the incident
the structure of servers and other network elements and the location of databases. Based on these, the
data files affected by the incident […] 3 […] were available on the affected network […]
(see figure below).
[…]
Used by Customer to create and further manage the database.
The personal data stored in the incident […] has not been encrypted Customer Statement
Based on. This is because the […] requirement for encryption does not appear internally
regulations.
According to the Client, the database […] did not consider it justified either because it was personal
data protection by restricting access and allocating rights in principle
the use of such encryption in the usability of the databases and
may cause a problem with its operation. The cause of the specific problem was not explained in detail by the Customer.
Otherwise, the use of encryption in the IT systems of the Customer
appears in general in its regulations called […]. Relevant points of the regulations
sent by the Client at the request of the Authority.
3) At the request of the Authority, the Client described in detail how the attacker managed to implement it
attack and access personal data stored in the database […]. The method itself is a
attacker introduced to the Customer. Based on these, the attacker ran a so-called […] attack on
on the affected digi.hu website. Executing this attack is, in the opinion of the Customer, time consuming
task and may only be performed intentionally with the intention of unauthorized access
implementation requires a high level of technical knowledge. The attack is carried out by the attacker
A vulnerability has been reported on […], through which […] has become available and can be listed.
a total of […] rows of […] in the test database.
At the request of the Authority, the Client explained in detail that the incident involved two separate
for a database, exactly what categories of data were handled, what that data was
the purpose and legal basis for the processing of the data and the exact number of personal data of the data subject
treatment.
- Test database named […] containing subscriber data: name of the data subject, date of birth
name, mother's name, place and date of birth, address, identity card number, if applicable
personal number, e-mail address, landline and mobile phone number, bank account number,
data related to the contract, data related to the service used. The
the purpose of data management in this case is to conclude a subscription contract. Data management
Legal basis: Article 6 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation (data processing
necessary for the performance of a contract to which one of the parties is a party). The
3

[…]

5

-

a total of […] personal data of the data subject were processed in the database. This number is the Data Controller
[…]% of its retail customers.
Live […] containing the data of the newsletter subscribers, can be linked to the digi.hu website
database: name and email address. The purpose of data management in this case is the data subjects
with the offers offered by the Client for the purpose of acquisition (dir
marketing). Legal basis for data processing: Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
(a) (the data subject has given his or her consent to one or more of his or her personal data)
for a specific purpose). A total of […] people are affected in the database
data were processed. This figure represents a total of […]% of the Data Controller's retail customers.

The Client forwarded it to the Authority by handling the data files affected by the incident
internal data protection incident management procedures.
4) The Client has explained to the Authority the technical vulnerabilities on the digi.hu website
description that the attacker also provided in his message.
An e-mail message from an ethical hacker describing the vulnerability reveals that […]
in addition to the database ([…])
The personal data of the data subjects subscribing to the newsletter on the digi.hu website
In addition, it contains access data to the interface of the digi.hu website. In this, it is called […]
the database also contains the data of the […] partial / full administrator user named […]
can be read according to the letter from the ethical hacker. This data includes […]. These data are
According to the message, they can allow access to the administration interface of the digi.hu website.
Based on the above, the ethical hacker e-mail message that the databases involved in the incident and
personal data is illustrated in the table below:
Database name

[…]

Number of stakeholders

[…] Subscriber

[…] Subscribing to the newsletter

Data type
Name, birth name, place of birth and
time, mother's name, email address, password,
mobile phone number, bank account number,
ID number, ownership
(owner or tenant), method of payment,
willingness to pay
data (eg debt collection), by contract
related
data,
used
service
type,
service
start / end date.
Newsletter subscribers: name, e-mail address

[…]
[…] Partial / full
system administrator

Administrators: […]

Based on the facts described above, the Authority found an infringement with the Client, therefore
made the present decision in the case.

6

II.

Applicable legal provisions

CL of 2016 on General Administrative Procedure. (hereinafter: the Act)
the authority, within the limits of its competence, checks the provisions of the law
compliance with the provisions of this Regulation and the enforcement of the enforceable decision.
He is involved in the reported incident pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the general data protection regulation applies to data processing.
Article 4 (12) of the General Data Protection Regulation defines what constitutes data protection
"security incident" means a breach of security which
accidental or unlawful destruction of personal data stored or otherwise processed,
loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized disclosure
results in access.
According to Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data
collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not processed
in a way incompatible with those objectives; […] ("Purpose limitation").
According to Article 5 (1) (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data
should be stored in a form that identifies the data subjects only for personal use
allows the time necessary to achieve the purposes of data processing; […] (“Limited
storability ”).
Pursuant to Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is responsible for
must be able to comply with the principles set out in
(‘accountability’).
Pursuant to Article 17 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to
that, at his request, the controller deletes his personal data without undue delay
data, and the controller is obliged to provide personal data concerning the data subject
delete without undue delay if […] personal data are no longer required from
for the purpose for which they were collected or otherwise treated.
According to Article 32 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller and the
the state of the art in science and technology and the cost of implementation; and
the nature, scope, circumstances and purposes of the processing and the rights of natural persons; and
taking into account the varying probability and severity of the risk to
implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to address the risk
guarantees an adequate level of data security, including, where appropriate, the
pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data.
In accordance with Article 32 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
The risks arising from the processing
which, in particular, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise handled are accidental or
unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure
or unauthorized access to them.
In accordance with Article 33 (1) to (2) and (4) to (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the
incident without undue delay by the controller and, if possible, no later than 72 hours
7

after becoming aware of the data protection incident, notify the competent authority in accordance with Article 55
supervisory authority, unless the data protection incident is unlikely to pose a risk
the rights and freedoms of natural persons. If the notification is not made 72
within one hour, it shall be accompanied by the reasons for the delay. The data processor
without undue delay after becoming aware of the data protection incident
notifies the controller. If and if not possible the information at the same time
they may be communicated in detail without further undue delay. The
the data controller shall record the data protection incidents, indicating them for the data protection incident
related facts, their effects and the measures taken to remedy them. This record
allow the supervisory authority to verify compliance with the requirements of this Article.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 101 (1) (a), if the authority has committed an infringement during the official inspection
experience, initiates its official proceedings. Infotv. Section 38 (3) and Section 60 (1)
based on the Infotv. Personal data within the scope of its duties under Section 38 (2) and (2a)
ex officio in order to enforce the right to protection of personal data.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 103 (1) of the Act concerning the procedures initiated upon request
provisions of Art. It shall apply with the exceptions set out in Sections 103 and 104.
Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. law
(hereinafter: the Information Act) pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), the Authority shall
in the context of the data processing operations set out in
may apply the legal consequences set out in the Data Protection Regulation.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) and (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory
the data controller or processor acting under the corrective powers of the competent authority if
breached the provisions of the Regulation or Article 83
impose an administrative fine accordingly, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in Paragraph 2 of the same Article
In accordance with point (d), the supervisory authority, acting in its corrective capacity, shall instruct the controller
or the processor to carry out its data processing operations, where appropriate in a specified manner and
bring it into line with the provisions of this Regulation.
The conditions for the imposition of an administrative fine are set out in Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
contained in Article. Infotv. 75 / A. § 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
taking into account the principle of proportionality
in particular in the legislation on the processing of personal data
or requirements laid down in a binding act of the European Union
Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in particular by alerting the controller or processor.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 104 (1) (a), the Authority shall ex officio in its area of competence
initiate proceedings if it becomes aware of a circumstance giving rise to such proceedings;
under paragraph 3 of the same paragraph, the ex officio procedure is the first procedural act
starts on the day of the execution of the contract, the notification of the initiation to the known customer may be omitted if the
the authority shall take a decision within eight days of the initiation of the procedure.

8

III. Decision
the. Applicability of the General Data Protection Regulation
Pursuant to Article 99 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Regulation will apply from 25 May 2018
should be used. The test database named [érintett] affected by the Privacy Incident is Customer
was created on the basis of its statement […] for testing and troubleshooting purposes.
The database called […], which contains data that can be linked to the digi.hu website, is direct marketing
providing information on newsletter subscribers and access to the website interface
contained administrator data that was not test but live, up-to-date data.
The Customer acknowledges that one of the vulnerabilities on the digi.hu website has been exploited for the above two databases
can be accessed from the outside by unauthorized access at the earliest on September 23, 2019 notified of security
from an ethical hacker who uncovers an error. Data management affected by the incident, namely customer data
storage in the databases affected by the incident, the general data protection regulation applies
continued after his divorce. Therefore, both Article 99 (2) and
shall apply in accordance with the substantive requirements set out in Article 2 (1)
requirements of this Regulation.
In addition to the above, it should be noted that the General Data Protection Regulation is a data protection incident
the incident
Acquisition is the relevant date, as the legal consequences required by this Regulation are
binds to a date. In this respect, the fact that it is involved in the incident and is insufficient
when a test database managed using data security measures was created
and when data collected from data subjects is included is not a relevant factor. That's it
incident and an inadequate level of data security
risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects even after the Regulation becomes applicable
they existed.
b. The nature of the data protection incident and the action taken by the controller
Based on the facts revealed, the Authority concluded that the data protection incident had taken place
the Client, in his own words, became aware of it at the earliest when it was disclosed to the person concerned
An ethical hacker conducting a vulnerability investigation on the digi.hu website informed him by e-mail
[…]. Previously, Customer was unaware of the vulnerability. By the attacker
the vulnerability analysis performed, the listing of the categories of data in the relevant databases, and
the Customer was unable to access the data stored in the test database automatically
detect the incident and the vulnerabilities that lead to it, only the ethical
was informed by a hacker.
Pursuant to Article 4 (12) of the General Data Protection Regulation, a
breach of security resulting in unauthorized access to the personal data processed
results. In terms of the concept, the relationship with the security incident is thus a key element
considered. In connection with the Client's incident reporting and clarification of the facts, it can be stated that a
for a test database created for testing and troubleshooting purposes containing personal information a
Vulnerability available to the attacker through the digi.hu website maintained by the Customer
managed to access it. Unauthorized access to personal data is therefore one
IT security vulnerability, which is thus data protection
resulted in an incident.
9

According to Article 33 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the main rule is data protection
the incident must be reported to the supervisory authority. This paragraph and Article 85 of the
Recital 2 states that the controller will only be required to notify the case
in accordance with the principle of accountability4
a data protection incident is not likely to endanger the rights of natural persons and
freedoms. As the general rule is to report the incident to the authorities, this is not the case
an exception is also to be understood narrowly.
As stated in recital 75 of the General Data Protection Regulation, if
data processing, in this case the storage of data of retail customers and system administrators,
identity theft or misuse of identity can result, so be it
considered risky.
Data stored in the database created by the Customer for testing and debugging purposes (name of the data subject,
birth name, mother's name, place and date of birth, address, identity card number,
occasionally personal number, email address, landline and mobile phone numbers, payment and banking
data related to the requested service)
identity theft or identity theft.
Another one available through the security breach, which can be linked to the digi.hu website, is named […]
for data stored in the database (newsletter and administrator data)
an ethical hacker also indicated the vulnerability of this data, although he did not request specific data,
listed only the types of data available for administrators ([…]). Regardless, a
shortcomings in security measures, such as protection against unauthorized access
an adequate level was also maintained for these data.
Based on the above, the Authority considers that the data protection incident is considered risky,
therefore, if the controller becomes aware of such a case, it must notify it
pursuant to Article 33 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation. THE
notification was made by the Data Controller to the Authority on 25 September 2019, so this is the direction
within 72 hours of becoming aware of the incident. The Authority shall:
has therefore not found an infringement of the obligation to notify.
In connection with the incident, the Data Controller described the possible adverse consequences
mitigation measures. Based on these purposelessly managed test database
deleted and installed the patch that is present on the […] system that you are using
eliminated the vulnerability. The Customer has already applied such prior to the occurrence of the incident
organizational measures that sought to filter out unnecessary, untargeted treatment
data, databases, however, the relevant test database has not been included in this connection before
for detection. Customer has also stated that it will consider higher level firewalls
to increase the level of protection and anyway
regular vulnerability scans and […] will be extended to the digi.hu website in the future.

Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: The controller is responsible for complying with paragraph 1 [principles].
and be able to demonstrate such compliance (‘accountability’).
4

10

c. Data security measures related to the storage of data affected by the incident
With regard to the security of data processing, Article 32 (1) of the Regulation states that
taking into account, inter alia, the state of science and technology and the risks involved
data controller is responsible for ensuring that data security is properly technical and organizational
measures. Paragraph 1 (a) of this Article shall mean, where appropriate, personal
aliasing and encrypting data.
When determining the appropriate level of security pursuant to Article 32 (2)
account shall be taken of the risks arising from the processing, in particular:
personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise handled is accidental or unlawful
destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure
or from unauthorized access to them.
1) Information provided in the incident report and official control during the procedure
Based on the facts established in., the occurrence of the data protection incident can be traced back to:
in the […] system used by the Customer for content management, with which the incident is involved
databases were also managed - there was a long - known and
repairable vulnerability. Customer says this vulnerability has not been corrected by
until an incident occurs because the service pack is not part of the software
officially issued version. Customer will not follow […] available unofficial fixes,
does not monitor it due to the number of unofficial patches for the software
because of what he says he has no opportunity, no capacity. Customer will conduct regular vulnerability testing
in the systems managed by it, however, until the occurrence of the incident, digi.hu
did not cover the website.
In accordance with Customer's IT Security Policy […].
Management of customer data affected by the incident - Annex III./b. also in accordance with the provisions of
considered risky based on the content of the data categories. Significantly increasing the risks
factor is that the database managed by the Customer contained a large number of personal data of the data subject
can be found:
- […] test database: […] affected subscriber, the data controller's retail customers
[…]% of total,
- Database named […]: […] affected subscribers, for the total number of retail customers of the Data Controller
[…]%, In addition […] partial / full system administrator can be linked to the digi.hu website
access details.
These are, therefore, a total of […], more than […] of the Data Controller's retail customers,
sensitive data processing affecting a significant number of stakeholders in proportion to the Hungarian population,
which, pursuant to recital (75) of the General Data Protection Regulation, are concerned
significant risks to their rights and freedoms. Pursuant to Article 32 of the Regulation
the obligation of the data controller to take data security measures proportionate to the risks
apply.
The testing and debugging activity performed by the Customer is the customer database named […]
otherwise it would not be a problem to report at the same time as such data processing
security measures proportionate to the risks are also applied. Customer internal
its information security regulations also contain requirements regarding the use of
systems, the risks need to be assessed in advance and mapped out
11

vulnerabilities and available fixes, as well as appropriate encryption
apply. In addition, systems should be regularly inspected for potential vulnerabilities
to explore.
2) The Client has sent to the Authority the technical vulnerabilities on the digi.hu website
description that the attacker provided to him in his message. IT security expert of the Authority
examined the vulnerability's description of the vulnerability and reported it by Customer
information. This is described in NAIH / 2020/1160/5. case information security experts
opinion, which with the Client in accordance with Ákr. Pursuant to Section 76 of the NAIH / 2020/1160/7. number
described by order.
According to the expert opinion, it can be concluded that it was done by the attacker
based on a vulnerability assessment, this is a […] vulnerability. This type of error is characterized by
that […]. However, there are web vulnerability applications that are out
they can also filter […] vulnerabilities automatically. Such e.g. also referred to by the Customer
and used […] are also widely used for this purpose. Use of this […] software
otherwise does not require a particularly "high level of IT knowledge" or code-decomposition ability,
they are moderately proficient in IT security issues of interest to the subject
a person can also master it after some practice and time.
The parameters of the vulnerability test described by the attacker show that the vulnerability is […]
was found through. On this link, […] was vulnerable, meaning […] could be exploited
[…] Vulnerability. According to the expert study, it can be successfully extracted from the relevant databases
(Databases named […]). Additional data may be included within these
get to know if […] so they can get to know […] (specific personal data).
Storing sensitive data in plain text in the database
high level of security problem according to expert opinion, which is appropriate encryption
can be eliminated by using. It can be prevented by using the […] mentioned by the Customer
would have been to know the specific contents of the database concerned.
An email from the ethical hacker describing the vulnerability also revealed that […]
also the data of a partial / full administrator user from the database named […]
can be read. This data includes […]. Such a sensitive, administrator level
access to data also greatly increases the risk of an incident,
since possession of this data is easy to commit identity theft or even more
unauthorized access to data.
3) Customer has submitted comments on the above IT security opinion and
comments to the Authority after it has been approved by the Authority in accordance with Art. Pursuant to Section 76 a
NAIH / 2020/1160/7. by order no.
Based on these, the Customer again stressed that the ethical hacker is only one of the […] database
requested as evidence and described it in a letter and no further unauthorized access
evidence. The Authority does not dispute this fact in the present decision. At this point in the decision (Annex III),
Chapter / c. Irrespective of this circumstance, the data security vulnerabilities assessed in
in relation to the personal data processed in the databases concerned and therefore
the risks posed to the data subjects can be linked to all the personal data processed.

12

Customer also highlighted the high level required to detect the vulnerability
IT knowledge is supported by its time-consuming and complexity. The Authority shall
notes that the mentioned software for detecting vulnerabilities is automatic
are able to detect vulnerabilities easily (for free if necessary) for anyone
are therefore not specific to the user
their use.
The client's statement reiterated that due to access control to the database
theoretically secured by authorization, so encryption was not considered justified
application. Furthermore, the encryption of the database table […] […] is incomprehensible according to the Customer
as there were some of the personal data concerned (eg names, addresses, telephone numbers),
whose encryption would have caused a problem in the usability of the database in the present case, and
operation. The reasons for this were not further specified by the Customer. The Authority hereby
See Annex III to this Decision. Chapter c. in point 5).
Finally, the Client drew the Authority’s attention to the fact that the […] employee (administrators,
administrators, users) […]. The Authority does not dispute the above, but notes that
nevertheless, the possibility of accessing […] data is in itself a serious security breach
considered as a risk factor.
4) The failure of the vulnerable content management system ([…]) used by the Customer is 9 years
it was well known along with the method of correcting it. Related entries a
have been publicly announced on the official website of the software.5 There is an error
The fix pack was not officially made, but an unofficial fix was available
it was publicly and free to anyone.
The vulnerability is related to the vulnerability investigation of the digi.hu website by an ethical hacker
for detection. To test this, the Customer also used to check other systems […]
software is also suitable. However, these inquiries were previously made in connection with the Website by the Customer
he could not detect the vulnerability either. Publicly available, visited by customers
website in connection with the omission of security investigations thus allowed for the vulnerability
do not shed light until the specific incident occurs. The regular
a vulnerability scan could have detected the error, as evidenced by an ethical hacker scan.
In this regard, a software component to repair an existing vulnerability is “no
is an irrelevant factor as to the existence and detectability of the error
it doesn't matter. Increased attention and action will be taken on the vulnerabilities in the systems used
required by the Client's internal regulations.
It is publicly available on the Internet and can be visited by (possibly a large number of) customers
Preparedness for potential vulnerabilities in relation to websites is expected to increase
maintainers. This is the state of science and technology and the cost of implementation
would not be of particular concern to the Customer in the present case, subject to
position in the market. The website and all other systems available on the Internet are regular
the Client also took action to require a vulnerability assessment after the incident, acknowledging this
the need for.
The level of security of the management of the databases involved in the incident was therefore not adequate
the requirements of Article 32 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
5

[…]

13

known security error that can be filtered out and repaired, as well as the vulnerability of the digi.hu site
failure to investigate allowed unauthorized access to personal data.
5) The Client also informed the Authority that it did not take place in the relevant databases
to apply encryption to personal data ([…]). This is also the message sent by the ethical hacker
confirms that the specific data have been retrieved from the database
personal data in readable form. To prove this, the ethical hacker asked the person concerned
[…] A row of a database that you also provided to the Customer.
Customer's IT Security Policy […].
The databases were created by Customer using the […] software, which allows
to encrypt data […]. In relation to the technology used, the personal data processed a
therefore, it was possible to use encryption, and its use should not mean any additional costs. The
However, according to the customer's statement, the […] databases it manages will be decrypted
did not use this option for the databases involved in the incident.
The reason given by the Customer is that the protection of personal data is accessed
such encryption is in principle ensured by restrictions and appropriate allocation of rights
may cause problems with the applicability and operation of the databases. THE
possible problems were not specified by the Customer.
However, in the absence of the use of encryption, the incident is involved in the present case
the vast majority of personal data stored in databases is unreadable, unauthorized
became known. That fact is the case with regard to the data protection incident that has taken place
significantly increased the risks to those affected.
The encryption of personal data is generally governed by Article 32 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
It is also mentioned in paragraph 1 (a) as an appropriate security measure.
However, the Customer did not specify why the encryption of the database […] is considered specific
problematic in relation to data management, but in the absence of this it should
to protect against the leakage of sensitive and large amounts of personal data. Encryption
the exact reasons for its non-compliance under Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
you need to know.
Due to non-encryption of the incident occurred, in addition to the security applied
significantly increased the risks of the measures to those concerned, and therefore the general
Article 32 (1) (a) of the Data Protection Regulation and its own internal
In order to comply with its rules, the Authority has requested the Client to
to review all persons it handles in order to reduce the risks
a database containing data on whether encryption is justified in them
and the results thereof, in accordance with the principle of accountability.
inform the Authority.
6) In view of the above, the Authority therefore concluded that the Client had not complied with the
Article 32 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, with regard to data security
related legal requirements.

14

d. Compliance with certain principles for the management of the test database affected by the incident
1) For the purpose referred to in Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
The principle of "confidentiality" requires that the collection of personal data be limited, clear and
for legitimate purposes and should not be treated as incompatible with those purposes
way.
According to the related opinion of Working Party 29 on Data Protection (WP203)
the essence is to prevent the data from being used for purposes for which the data subjects do not
may anticipate, protest, or otherwise be unsuitable for such purposes
to achieve. The principle is made up of two further parts, namely the goal first
and, secondly, the associated use
obligation.
The Customer indicated the purpose of creating the test database affected by the incident in that […] an error occurred that caused the subscriber data to become unavailable. This is a mistake
was created for the purpose of repairing the [[]] data subject's retail customers
[…]% of the total data provided during the conclusion of the subscription contracts
test database containing. The purpose of creating this database (bug fix) is therefore separate from the
from the purpose of the original processing of personal data (performance of the contract). Bug fixes as standalone
the purpose of the data management may be legitimate, but this separate data management must also comply with the
requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation, including, inter alia, purposeful data processing
principle.
The goal of error correction in creating a test database lasts as long as the error itself
has not been remedied by the Data Controller. Once the error has been corrected, it is isolated
the purpose of the processing also ceases, so that Article 17 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
The test database containing personal data had to be deleted, subject to the provisions of point
would be. Storing the database after the error has been completed has no data management purpose,
to which the Client himself referred in his replies to the Authority (see:
NAIH / 2019/7105/4. dated 28 November 2019
paragraph 4 of its declaration).
Therefore, the purposeless storage of a database containing a large number of sensitive customer data will be […], a
from the time the fault was rectified until the time the incident occurred. The Customer is responsible for this data management
therefore infringed Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
the principle of ‘purpose limitation’ mentioned in
2) The “limited
The principle of "storage of personal data" requires that personal data be stored in such a form
identification of data subjects for the sole purpose of processing personal data
allow the necessary time.
Closely related to the principle of purpose limitation, this principle is obsolete, no longer for any purpose
prohibits the storage of personal data that cannot be used. However, the principle is
retention of data in a way that identifies the data subjects
limits. You still have the option of storing anonymized data
data controller, but in such a way that it cannot be
draw conclusions for the data subject and identify them further.

15

The purpose is personal data processed in a database created by the Customer for troubleshooting purposes
unchanged after its realization, so that the data subjects were stored in a way that could be identified.
The identity of the data sent to the Customer by the ethical hacker
also confirmed a vulnerability message. The readability of the data, so the stakeholders
access to and identification of your data is otherwise encrypted
as in the previous paragraphs of the decision
it has been established.
Thus, the Customer has created for the purpose of troubleshooting, containing the data of the data subjects
test database for the identification of those involved in the period after the troubleshooting and then […]
infringed Article 5 (1) (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
the principle of ‘limited storage capacity’ referred to in
e. Findings concerning the sanction applied.
The Authority has examined the type of sanction it intends to impose on the Client
whether it is justified to impose a data protection fine on him. In this circle
Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation and Infotv. 75 / A. §,
subject to Infotv. § 61 (5), considered all the relevant circumstances of the case and
found that in the case of the infringement discovered in the present proceedings, the Customer 's warning and
is not in itself a disproportionate and dissuasive sanction, so a fine is justified
imposition.
In determining the need to impose a fine, the Authority considered the infringements
aggravating and mitigating circumstances as follows:
Aggravating circumstances:
-

A Customer Privacy Incident for a Data Security Vulnerability
tracing back to which free repair has long been available on the market,
and the vulnerability could be easily detected even by a third party, so that
to prevent exposure to unauthorized access to data to the Customer a
would have been an option for a very long time if the risks were properly assessed.

-

The large amount of data affected by the Client in connection with the case, due to their sensitivity
reported risks, as well as the market position of the Client, on the basis of which increased
it is expected to apply appropriate data security measures.

-

As reflected in its own internal policies, the Customer 's (open source) policy
the risks arising from the use of a content management system
must be borne and approved by the Client. The Customer on this
in the absence of such measures, it did not comply properly with its own internal rules.

-

Encryption applied to the personal data concerned and the risks involved
the lack of an assessment also increased the risks of exposure to the incident. On this
the application of the measure is also reflected in the relevant internal regulations of the Client,
which it also did not or did not fully comply with.

16

-

With respect to the digi.hu website, with administrator (administrator) rights
the Authority is seriously increasing the security risks
taken into account as a factor.

-

The Authority identified data security vulnerabilities at the system level
considers the problem that the infringement situation existed before the incident took place
also has existed for a long time with the data management Client regarding the affected databases.

-

In addition to data security vulnerabilities, the occurrence of the incident directly
traceable to the test database created for troubleshooting purposes is in principle infringing
for a long period […] in a way that is unintentional and identifiable
for storage. If the test database had been deleted in accordance with the principles
after the error correction goal has been achieved, it is reported to those affected by the incident
risks would also have been much milder, given the number of data subjects involved
could have been reduced by the number of people in the test database ([…] affected). The
data security deficiencies in case of timely deletion of the test database only the personal data managed in the direct marketing database ([érintett] concerned) and the digi.hu website
administrator data ([…] concerned).

-

Identification of data processed without purpose, cleaning and updating of data
deletion as required is also included in Customer’s internal regulations, which is also inconsistent
conditions for managing the test database involved in the incident.

-

There are a large number of data security vulnerabilities and breaches of data in principle
(a total of […] persons) affected the personal data of the data subject, which contains the Customer
retail customers […]. This is also significant in relation to the proportion of the country's population
number (population in Hungary […]).

-

In determining the amount of the fine, the Authority took into account that the Customer
Infringements of fundamental rights by Article 83 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation
infringement falling within the higher maximum amount of the fine
are considered.

Mitigating circumstances:
-

The Authority took into account that the Client had not previously established a
personal data breach.

-

The Client also acknowledged in a statement that the test database involved in the incident has already been
you should have deleted it earlier.

Other circumstances considered:
-

Upon becoming aware of a privacy incident, Customer is the incident
Article 33 of the General Data Protection Regulation
took immediate action to investigate the incident before the Authority
within 72 hours of becoming aware of the vulnerability
has installed a patch and deleted the illegally managed database
in connection with the performance of vulnerability tests. The Authority is thus specific to the Client
did not reveal any problem in his privacy incident management practices. The Authority shall e
17

conduct, as it did not go beyond compliance with legal obligations
not assessed as an attenuating circumstance.
-

The Authority also took into account that the Client cooperated in all respects
Authority in the investigation of the case, although this conduct is not - as the law
obligations were not exceeded either, he said
as a circumstance.

In setting the amount of the fine, the Authority took into account that the Client
Publicly available financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2018 to 31 December 2018
Based on
in this
the
year
altogether
47,299,383,000
HUF
(forty-seven billion two hundred and ninety-nine million nine hundred and eighty-three thousand forints). The Authority
and took into account that the Customer's business between January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019
year to the Authority NAIH / 2020/1160/6. reply to fact-finding order no
according to the net sales of HUF 51,890,528,182 (fifty-one billion eight hundred and ninety million five hundred and twenty-eight hundred and eighty-two). Infringement in setting the fine
In view of the period of its existence, the Authority has taken into account the business years 2018 and 2019.
Based on the above, the amount of the fine imposed is proportionate to the gravity of the infringement.
The Authority shall inform Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (2) a) and c) of the decision, the Client
has also ordered the disclosure of your personal data (with the protection of business secrets),
whereas the infringement is serious and affects a wide range of persons.
ARC.

Other issues

The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a), its jurisdiction is
covers the whole country.
The Ákr. § 112 and § 116 (1) and § 114 (1), respectively
there is an administrative remedy against him.
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a), the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the decision of the Criminal Court falls within the jurisdiction of the court. Section 13 (11)
The Metropolitan Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction pursuant to On civil procedure
on the 2016 CXXX. Act (hereinafter: Pp.) - the Kp. Pursuant to Section 26 (1)
applicable - legal representation in a lawsuit falling within the jurisdiction of the tribunal pursuant to § 72
obligatory. Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6), unless otherwise provided by law, the application
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of the administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter: E-Administration Act), the customer is legal in accordance with Section 9 (1) (b)
representative is required to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 44 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee is
Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party instituting the proceedings.
18

74/2020 on certain procedural measures in force during an emergency. (III. 31.)
According to Section 35 of the Government Decree (hereinafter: Government Decree), unless otherwise provided by this Decree
the emergency does not affect the running of the time limits.
According to Section 41 (1) of the Government Decree, the court is hearing at the time of the emergency
acting outside. If the lawsuit were to be heard outside the time of the emergency, the plaintiff would then
may request the court to adjudicate the emergency instead of adjudicating
postpone until the end of
(a) the court has not ordered, at least in part, the suspensory effect of the administrative act,
(b) the action has suspensory effect and the court has not ordered the suspension of the suspensory effect
el,
(c) no interim measure has been ordered.
The Ákr. According to § 132, if the debtor does not comply with the obligation contained in the final decision of the authority
fulfilled, it is enforceable. The decision of the Authority With the communication pursuant to Section 82 (1)
it becomes final. The Ákr. Section 133 of the Enforcement - if by law or government decree
unless otherwise provided by the decision-making authority. The Ákr. Pursuant to § 134 a
enforcement - if local in a law, government decree or municipal authority matter
the decree of the local government does not provide otherwise - it is carried out by the state tax authority. Infotv.
Pursuant to Section 60 (7), a specific act included in the decision of the Authority
obligation to perform, specified conduct, tolerance or cessation
the Authority shall enforce the decision.
Budapest, May 18, 2020
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

19

