 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.416.1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May 4, 2020

Drawing lessons from the Corona crisis: Berlin needs digital independence

modern communication offers

The Corona crisis has made it clear that, above all, in the public sector
Administration still largely on the use of secure and fundamental rights-friendly digital
Means of communication such as messenger services and video conference systems are missing. the
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk, points this out
point out that the experiences made in this exceptional situation must lead to
is now fully committed to the digital independence of public administration
advanced by modern means of communication.
 
The precautionary measures to contain the corona pandemic have in almost all
areas of daily life to restrictions and changes to usual processes
guided. For large parts of the population, this also included extensive work and
Learning from home. This was and is also true for public institutions in the fulfillment
their tasks. In order to ensure the operation, the lack of recognizable
Alternatives all too often resort to services and software that are insecure and
are not acceptable under data protection law.
 
This may be in a time of extremely accelerated and sometimes rushed
Digitization of work and school should be understandable due to an exceptional situation.
However, the current exceptional situation must not lead to the perpetuation of use
dubious services and a reduction in data protection standards in the
lead future.

Where the urgency of the measures to be taken currently prevent the protection of
personal data could not be considered to the necessary extent, must therefore
now continuously improved. Should data protection imponderables or even
Deficiencies occur, these must be rectified immediately. Those responsible are asked to
implement short-term solutions that do not comply with data protection requirements as soon as possible
to replace privacy-friendly ones. In the public sector are here in a special way
Central administrations are responsible, centrally for appropriate data protection
to provide offers.

Schools, specialist administrations and other public institutions also in this
must fulfill their core tasks in a time of crisis, are allowed to make the urgently needed changeover
are not left to their own devices when it comes to data protection-compliant solutions. From messenger services
to video conferencing and e-learning tools, the Senate should ensure that

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

data protection-compliant, user-friendly and secure means of communication
are available, which any public body can access if necessary.
 
The current situation should also be seen as an opportunity given working methods
to redesign the experience gained during the Corona crisis from scratch
and to use the possibilities of digital technology in a data protection-compliant manner right from the start.
Berlin is on the way to becoming the e-government capital. Which also includes
also the design of the technology required for modern administration
data protection-compliant form (privacy by design). Especially in administration it is possible and
desirable that corresponding services themselves with the help of the respective IT service provider
of the country are operated. Video conferencing services e.g. B. could from the outset
be made privacy compliant so that they are available when needed and immediately
can be used without having to make legal compromises.
 
The existing data protection rules are not an end in themselves, but serve this purpose
protection of the fundamental rights of those affected. Especially when it comes to school children,
Workers or people who are employed by state
are dependent on performance, it cannot - as occasionally requested these days - the
be a solution to lower the level of data protection. Because those affected can in these cases
not free to choose whether or not to use these little services with their personal information
tangible providers want to make available or not, without knowing what's going on with theirs
data ultimately happens. Therefore, it must now be more a matter of getting all the necessary
Make efforts to create a sustainable and privacy-friendly infrastructure for
create modern communication. It would have to be checked whether these solutions also
non-profit organizations could be made available, given the
face the same challenges in the current situation.
 
Maja Smoltczyk
"The demand of the data protection authorities, platforms and offers that protect the fundamental rights of the
People respect, promote or provide themselves, has been in Germany for years
not given due attention. In the current crisis, this is falling on our feet. In the range of
Communication tools are largely left to the public bodies themselves. That
can not be. Now more than ever, politicians are called upon to ensure the digital independence of the
promote public service. I welcome the first steps that the state of Berlin is taking
the provision of communication and collaboration services recently
has undertaken. My authority is very happy to take part in the examination of such offers,
to support rapid deployment for as many use cases as possible. It is
not too late to catch up on what you have missed, because a data protection compliant and data secure
Communication will still be important when this crisis is over.”
 
 
 
 
 
 

