




Standard data protection model version 2.0 approved by the data protection conference








No.20191113
|
11/13/2019
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

With version 2.0, the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) has developed a fundamentally revised version of the standard data protection model (SDM).
The legal requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) are now fully recorded by the SDM and systematized with the help of the protection goals. The catalog of generic measures enables a low-threshold entry into the practical application of the SDM. The data protection management described in the SDM guides those responsible through all phases of the processing of personal data and thus also enables the continuous maintenance of legally compliant processing.
With the SDM, the conference provides a tool that supports the risk-adequate selection and legal assessment of the technical and organizational measures required by the GDPR. These measures are intended to ensure that personal data is processed in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR. With its guarantee goals, the SDM offers a transformation aid between law and technology and thus supports a constant dialogue between participants from the legal and technical-organizational areas.
The areas of application of the standard data protection model are the planning, introduction and operation of processing activities with which personal data are processed (personal processing) as well as their examination and assessment. The SDM thus supports those responsible in business and administration in fulfilling the verification and accountability requirements imposed by the GDPR.
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments recommends those responsible in business and administration to use the SDM when planning, introducing and operating personal processing. The SDM is to be continuously developed. Users are invited to share their experiences in using the SDM with the data protection supervisory authorities in order to contribute to the continuous improvement of the model.









                Back to overview









