Legal Office  
N/REF: 0079/2020  
The inquiry raises the procedure to be followed in the event of the death of a doctor who holds the medical records of their patients in relation to compliance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data (GDPR hereinafter), and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD hereinafter).  

I  
The CLINIC (or the inquirer hereinafter) states that regarding the deceased physician and their relationship with the CLINIC, two types or sets of patients can be understood to exist: the first concerning those whom the deceased attended at the clinic in a rented space, which should be considered as the physician's own patients, where the CLINIC would act merely as a data processor; and the second group, those who can be considered patients of both, the CLINIC and the physician: attended by the doctor but generated by the clinic, sharing spaces, tools, resources, and personnel. In this case, acting as co-responsible for the processing of the data of those patients.  

The heirs of the deceased physician took charge of the medical records of the first group of patients – exclusive patients – and regarding the second group – shared patients – the CLINIC proposed a co-responsibility agreement/contract, regarding which the heirs have not expressed any opinion, which in summary, allowed that in the event of an exercise of rights by an interested party, these would be satisfied in accordance with current regulations.  
In the absence of any response from the heirs of the physician, such as a reply to the communications directed to them, THE CLINIC requests the opinion of this Legal Office regarding how to address this situation from the perspective of data protection regulations and in particular how to proceed in the event of the exercise of any rights by the interested parties.  

II  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
1  

Legal Office  
Considering the above, the debate is confined to the analysis from the perspective of the right to data protection regarding what should be done with the medical records owned by a physician who has ceased their activity, and to what extent this situation affects the inquirer concerning those medical records of the "shared" patients.  
It should be emphasized the special nature of the personal data that will be subject to processing as they provide information about the health of individuals.  
As a starting point, it should be indicated that the data contained in the medical record is considered health data, which according to Article 4.15 of the GDPR are those relating to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveal information about their health status;  
Recital 35 of the GDPR establishes the following:  
Among the personal data related to health, all data concerning the health status of the data subject that provide information about their past, present, or future physical or mental health must be included. This includes information about the natural person collected in connection with their registration for health care purposes, or in connection with the provision of such care, in accordance with Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (9); any number, symbol, or data assigned to a natural person that uniquely identifies them for health purposes; information obtained from tests or examinations of a part of the body or a bodily substance, including that derived from genetic data and biological samples, and any information relating, by way of example, to a disease, a disability, the risk of suffering from diseases, medical history, clinical treatment, or the physiological or biomedical status of the data subject, regardless of its source, for example, a doctor or another health professional, a hospital, a medical device, or an in vitro diagnostic test.  
Health data must be included in the special categories of data collected in Article 9 of the GDPR, which states:  
1. The processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health, or data concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual orientation is prohibited.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
2
Legal Cabinet
2. Paragraph 1 shall not apply when one of the following circumstances occurs:
a) the data subject has given explicit consent for the processing of such personal data for one or more specified purposes, except when Union law or the laws of the Member States provide that the prohibition mentioned in paragraph 1 cannot be lifted by the data subject;
b) the processing is necessary for compliance with obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the data controller or the data subject in the field of labor law and social security and protection, to the extent that it is authorized by Union law of the Member States or a collective agreement under the law of the Member States that establishes adequate safeguards for the respect of fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject;
c) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or another natural person, in the event that the data subject is not physically or legally capable of giving consent;
d) the processing is carried out, within the scope of its legitimate activities and with appropriate safeguards, by a foundation, an association, or any other non-profit organization whose purpose is political, philosophical, religious, or trade union, provided that the processing relates exclusively to current or former members of such organizations or to persons who maintain regular contact with them in relation to their purposes and provided that the personal data are not disclosed outside of them without the consent of the data subjects;
e) the processing concerns personal data which the data subject has made manifestly public;
f) the processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise, or defense of legal claims or when courts act in the exercise of their judicial functions;
g) the processing is necessary for reasons of substantial public interest, based on Union law or the laws of the Member States, which must be proportional to the objective pursued, respect essentially the right to data protection, and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject;
h) the processing is necessary for purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, assessment of the worker's capacity, medical diagnosis, provision of health or social care or treatment, or management of health and social care systems and services, based on Union law or the laws of the Member States or under a contract with a healthcare professional and without prejudice to the conditions and safeguards provided for in paragraph 3;
i) the processing is necessary for reasons of public interest in the field of public health, such as protection against serious cross-border threats to health, or to ensure high standards of quality and safety of health care and of medicines or medical products, based on Union law or the laws of the Member States that establish adequate and specific measures to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subject, in particular professional secrecy;
j) the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, based on Union law or the laws of the Member States, which must be proportional to the objective pursued, respect essentially the right to data protection, and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject.
3. The personal data referred to in paragraph 1 may be processed for the purposes mentioned in paragraph 2, letter h), when their processing is carried out by a professional subject to the obligation of professional secrecy, or under their responsibility, in accordance with Union law or the laws of the Member States or with the rules established by the competent national authorities, or by any other person also subject to the obligation of secrecy in accordance with Union law or the laws of the Member States or the rules established by the competent national authorities.
4. Member States may maintain or introduce additional conditions, including limitations, regarding the processing of genetic data, biometric data, or data related to health.
For its part, Article 9.2 of the LOPDGDD establishes the following:
Legal Office
“2. The data processing referred to in letters g), h), and i) of Article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 based on Spanish law must be supported by a norm with the rank of law, which may establish additional requirements regarding its security and confidentiality. In particular, such a norm may support the processing of data in the field of health when required by the management of public and private healthcare and social assistance systems and services, or the execution of an insurance contract to which the affected party is a party.”

The Additional Provision 17 of the LOPDGDD in its section 1 states the following:
“1. The data processing related to health and genetic data regulated in the following laws and their implementing provisions is covered by letters g), h), i), and j) of Article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679:
(…)
c) Law 41/2002, of November 14, basic regulatory law on patient autonomy and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation.
(…)
That said, it is appropriate to first refer to Law 41/2002, of November 14, basic regulatory law on patient autonomy and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation (hereinafter LAP), which defines the Clinical History as the set of documents containing data, assessments, and information of any kind regarding the situation and clinical evolution of a patient throughout the care process. In its Article 15.2, it establishes that “The clinical history shall primarily aim to facilitate healthcare, documenting all those data that, under medical criteria, allow for a truthful and updated knowledge of the state of health.” And in Article 16 under the heading “uses of the clinical history,” it indicates in section 1 that “The clinical history is an instrument primarily intended to guarantee adequate assistance to the patient. The healthcare professionals at the center who perform the diagnosis or treatment of the patient have access to the clinical history of the patient as a fundamental instrument for their adequate assistance.”

III
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
5

                                                          Legal Office
Taking the above into account, it is appropriate to address the analysis of the preservation and custody of the clinical history (Articles 17 and 19 LAP), which in the case presented in the consultation must apply to both the clinical histories of the first group of patients—exclusive to the deceased practitioner and in possession of their heirs—and those of the second group of patients, that is, regarding whom the CLINIC is at least established as co-responsible. Article 17 LAP under the heading “The preservation of clinical documentation” states the following:
1. Healthcare centers have the obligation to preserve clinical documentation under conditions that guarantee its proper maintenance and security, although not necessarily in the original format, for the due assistance to the patient for the appropriate time in each case and, at a minimum, five years counted from the date of discharge from each care process. However, the data in the clinical history related to the birth of the patient, including the results of biometric, medical, or analytical tests that may be necessary to determine the filiation link with the mother, shall not be destroyed, being transferred once the death of the patient is known, to the definitive archives of the corresponding Administration, where they shall be preserved with the necessary security measures for the purposes of data protection legislation.
2. The clinical documentation shall also be preserved for judicial purposes in accordance with current legislation. It shall also be preserved when there are epidemiological, research, or organizational reasons related to the functioning of the National Health System. Its processing shall be carried out in such a way as to avoid, as much as possible, the identification of the affected individuals. Without prejudice to the right referred to in the following article, the data in the clinical history related to biometric, medical, or analytical tests that are necessary to determine the filiation link with the mother of the newborn may only be communicated at judicial request, within the corresponding criminal process or in the event of a claim or judicial challenge of maternal filiation.
3. Healthcare professionals have the duty to cooperate in the creation and maintenance of an orderly and sequential clinical documentation of the care process of the patients.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
6
Legal Office
4. The management of medical records by centers with hospitalized patients, or by those that attend to a sufficient number of patients under any other care modality, according to the criteria of the health services, shall be carried out through the admission and clinical documentation unit, responsible for integrating the medical records into a single file. The custody of such medical records shall be under the responsibility of the management of the healthcare center.
5. Healthcare professionals who carry out their activity individually are responsible for the management and custody of the care documentation they generate.
6. The technical security measures established by the legislation regulating the conservation of files containing personal data, and, in general, by Organic Law 15/1999, on the Protection of Personal Data, apply to clinical documentation.
For its part, Article 19 of the LAP under the heading “Rights related to the custody of the medical record” establishes the following:
The patient has the right for healthcare centers to establish a mechanism for the active and diligent custody of medical records. Such custody will allow for the collection, integration, recovery, and communication of information subject to the principle of confidentiality in accordance with the provisions of Article 16 of this Law.
From the reading of the transcribed provisions, the following conclusions can be drawn, which cannot be opposed by the circumstances raised by the inquirer regarding the relationship between the heirs of the doctor and THE CLINIC.
There is an obligation to preserve medical records for at least five years from the last entry.
Furthermore, there is a duty to cooperate in the creation and maintenance of the medical record organized in a chronologically sequential manner that encompasses the events derived from patient care.
Lastly, there is a duty of active responsibility in the management and custody of medical records informed by the principle of confidentiality.
IV
That said, it is necessary to cite Report 496/2007 where aspects related to the conservation of data contained in medical records managed by healthcare professionals practicing privately were analyzed under the now-repealed Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, and among other cases, the cessation of practice due to death or retirement was observed:
(…)
In the case of data contained in the medical records of patients who visit healthcare professionals practicing medicine privately, it must be taken into account what is established in Law 41/2002, of November 14, which regulates the autonomy of the patient and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation, whose Article 14.1 states that “the medical record comprises the set of documents related to the care processes of each patient, with the identification of the doctors and other professionals who have intervened in them, in order to obtain the maximum possible integration of the clinical documentation of each patient, at least, within the scope of each center.”
Regarding the private practice of the profession, Article 17.5 of the Law clearly states that “Healthcare professionals who carry out their activity individually are responsible for the management and custody of the care documentation they generate.”
Well, regarding the conservation of data, even in cases where private practice has ceased, this Agency has already indicated in a report dated November 12, 2007 the following:
“Within the obligations of management and custody are those related to the conservation of the medical record, provided for in the very precept, whose section 1 establishes that ‘Healthcare centers have the obligation to preserve clinical documentation in conditions that guarantee its proper maintenance and security, although not necessarily in the original format, for the proper assistance to the patient for the time appropriate to each case and, at a minimum, five years from the date of discharge from each care process.’
This regulation must be complemented by what is established by the applicable regional regulations for the professional, given that there are regional regulations that establish much longer periods for the conservation of data contained in the medical record.
Legal Office
(...)
In light of the cited regulations, it is clear that, regardless of whether there has been a cessation in the exercise of professional activity, the practitioner is still subject to the legal requirements for the preservation of medical records, being responsible for their custody and conservation as long as the legally established timeframes for such preservation have not elapsed, and being, by imperative of Law 41/2002 itself, responsible for the medical records file.  
For this reason, the professional will be obliged to comply with the legally established obligations regarding their medical records file (...).  
Consequently, the consultant is responsible for a file fully subject to the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, and must proceed with its notification to the General Data Protection Registry and the implementation of the necessary security measures.  
Furthermore, in accordance with the application of Law 41/2002 and Valencian Law 1/2003, they must retain the data for the periods established therein, and may not proceed with its cancellation until those periods have elapsed.”  
Consequently, the duty of custody of the medical record should persist at least during the period established by the state or regional regulations governing the matter, taking into account the very purpose of the record, since, as this Agency also pointed out in its report of October 1, 2003, “the legislator's intention in this case is not to proceed with the immediate destruction of the data, but, on the contrary, that such data be preserved as long as they may be necessary for the safeguarding of the life and physical integrity of the patient.” Thus, in the event of cessation in the exercise of the profession, a duty of preservation will remain that will extend to the legally established timeframes, and this duty will also persist, for the benefit of the patient's healthcare, in the event of the practitioner's death, with the heirs assuming the obligations of preservation by application of the provisions of Article 661 of the Civil Code.  
(…)  
V  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
9  

                                                          Legal Office  
The duties of those responsible for medical records derived from the LAP are complemented by the actions arising from the exercise of the rights that patients and, where applicable, their heirs and other interested third parties have.  
While Chapter III of the GDPR outlines the rights of the data subject and the LOPDGDD does the same in Title III under the heading “Rights of Individuals,” it is precisely Article 12.5 of that regulation that makes a reference to the laws ratione materiae when there may be a special regime affecting rights, by stating the following:  
"when the applicable laws to certain treatments establish a special regime affecting the exercise of the rights provided in Chapter Three of Regulation 2016/679, the provisions of those laws shall apply."  
Therefore, one must first refer to what is indicated in Article 18 LAP, which under the title “Rights of access to the medical record” states the following:  
1. The patient has the right of access, with the reservations indicated in section 3 of this article, to the documentation of the medical record and to obtain a copy of the data contained therein. Healthcare centers will regulate the procedure that guarantees the observance of these rights.  
2. The patient's right of access to the medical record may also be exercised by duly accredited representation.  
3. The patient's right to access the documentation of the medical record cannot be exercised to the detriment of the right of third parties to the confidentiality of the data contained therein collected in the therapeutic interest of the patient, nor to the detriment of the right of the professionals involved in its preparation, who may oppose the right of access based on the confidentiality of their subjective notes.  
4. Healthcare centers and individual practitioners will only facilitate access to the medical records of deceased patients to persons linked to them, for family or factual reasons, unless the deceased expressly prohibited it and this is evidenced. In any case, access by a third party to the medical record motivated by a risk to their health will be limited to the pertinent data. Information affecting the privacy of the deceased or the subjective notes of the professionals will not be provided, nor information that harms third parties.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
10
Legal Office
For its part, Article 15 of the GDPR establishes the following:
1. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the data controller confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning them is being processed and, if that is the case, the right of access to the personal data and to the following information:
a) the purposes of the processing;
b) the categories of personal data concerned;
c) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed, in particular recipients in third countries or international organizations;
d) where possible, the envisaged retention period for the personal data or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period;
e) the existence of the right to request from the controller the rectification or erasure of personal data or the restriction of processing of personal data concerning the data subject, or to object to such processing;
f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
g) when the personal data have not been obtained from the data subject, any available information as to their source;
h) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject.
2. When personal data are transferred to a third country or to an international organization, the data subject shall have the right to be informed of the appropriate safeguards under Article 46 relating to the transfer.
3. The data controller shall provide a copy of the personal data undergoing processing. The controller may charge a reasonable fee based on administrative costs for any further copies requested by the data subject. When the data subject makes the request by electronic means, and unless otherwise requested, the information shall be provided in a commonly used electronic format.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
11

                                                          Legal Office
4. The right to obtain a copy mentioned in paragraph 3 shall not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others.
Regarding the LOPDGDD, Article 13 establishes the following:
1. The right of access of the affected party shall be exercised in accordance with the provisions of Article 15 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. When the controller processes a large amount of data relating to the affected party and the latter exercises their right of access without specifying whether it refers to all or part of the data, the controller may request that the affected party specify the data or processing activities to which the request refers before providing the information.
2. The right of access shall be deemed granted if the data controller provides the affected party with a remote, direct, and secure access system to the personal data that ensures, on a permanent basis, access to the entirety of it. For these purposes, communication by the controller to the affected party of how they can access such a system shall suffice to consider the request for the exercise of the right as fulfilled. However, the data subject may request from the controller the information referred to in the aspects provided for in Article 15.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 that is not included in the remote access system.
3. For the purposes established in Article 12.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the exercise of the right of access on more than one occasion within a period of six months may be considered repetitive, unless there is a legitimate reason for it.
4. When the affected party chooses a means other than that offered which entails a disproportionate cost, the request shall be considered excessive, and the affected party shall bear the excess costs that their choice entails. In this case, only the satisfaction of the right of access without undue delay shall be required of the data controller.
In accordance with the above, under the provisions of Articles 15 GDPR and 13 LOPDGDD, and with the special provisions of Article 18 LAP, the exercise of the right of access entails the legal obligation of the data controller to ensure its compliance as long as the requirements set out in the aforementioned provisions are met.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
12
Legal Office
Failure to do so may be considered a violation in accordance with the sanctioning regime provided for in Title IX of the LOPDGDD.
VI
Having stated the above, and in relation to who must fulfill the exercise of the rights of the holders of personal data contained in the medical records subject to consultation, regarding the first group, that of the "exclusive" patients of the deceased physician, reference must first be made to the provisions of Articles 659 and 661 of the Civil Code, which state: 
“The inheritance includes all the assets, rights, and obligations of a person, which do not cease with death” and “the heirs succeed to the deceased by the mere fact of their death in all their rights and obligations.”
Considering that the deceased physician had the obligation to safeguard the medical records according to Article 17 of the LAP, it will be the heirs who succeed him in that obligation, which makes them responsible for the processing (Article 4.7 GDPR) with the inherent obligations of such status. 
The main consequence of this new status is that they are responsible for the preservation and security of the medical records for at least five years from the date of discharge of each healthcare process. And at least during that period, they are responsible for the processing of the data contained in the medical records, and in relation to the subject of the consultation, they will be the ones responsible for attending to, and if applicable, fulfilling, the exercise of the rights provided for in the regulations, such as the right of access, the realization of which will depend on various factors as analyzed in the following section of this report.
The second obligation that falls upon them will be that provided for in Article 14 of the GDPR, which under the heading “Information to be provided when personal data have not been obtained from the data subject” establishes the obligation to provide certain information to the data holders, specifying it as follows:
1. When personal data have not been obtained from the data subject, the data controller shall provide the following information:
a) the identity and contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of their representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection officer, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended, as well as the legal basis for the processing;
d) the categories of personal data concerned;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if applicable;
f) where applicable, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a recipient in a third country or international organization and the existence or absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or, in the case of transfers referred to in Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second subparagraph, reference to the appropriate or suitable safeguards and the means to obtain a copy of them or the fact that they have been provided.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in paragraph 1, the data controller shall provide the data subject with the following information necessary to ensure fair and transparent data processing regarding the data subject:
a) the period for which the personal data will be retained or, when that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period;
b) when the processing is based on Article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests of the data controller or a third party;
c) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to personal data concerning the data subject, and their rectification or erasure, or the restriction of their processing, and to object to the processing, as well as the right to data portability;
d) when the processing is based on Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness of the processing based on consent before its withdrawal;
e) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
f) the source from which the personal data originate and, if applicable, whether they come from publicly accessible sources;
g) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in
Legal Office
in such cases, significant information regarding the logic applied, as well as the importance and anticipated consequences of such processing for the data subject.
3. The data controller shall provide the information indicated in sections 1 and 2:
a) within a reasonable period, once the personal data has been obtained, and no later than within one month, taking into account the specific circumstances in which such data is processed;
b) if the personal data is to be used for communication with the data subject, no later than at the time of the first communication to that data subject, or
c) if it is intended to communicate it to another recipient, no later than at the time when the personal data is communicated for the first time.
4. When the data controller intends to further process the personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was obtained, they shall provide the data subject, prior to such further processing, information about that other purpose and any other relevant information indicated in section 2.
5. The provisions of sections 1 to 4 shall not apply when and to the extent that:
a) the data subject already has the information;
b) the communication of such information is impossible or would involve a disproportionate effort, in particular for processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes, or statistical purposes, subject to the conditions and safeguards indicated in Article 89, section 1, or to the extent that the obligation mentioned in section 1 of this article could seriously impede or obstruct the achievement of the objectives of such processing. In such cases, the controller shall take appropriate measures to protect the rights, freedoms, and legitimate interests of the data subject, including making the information public;
c) the obtaining or communication is expressly provided for by Union or Member State law applicable to the data controller and establishes appropriate measures to protect the legitimate interests of the data subject, or
d) when the personal data must continue to be kept confidential based on a professional secrecy obligation regulated by Union or Member State law, including a statutory obligation of secrecy.
VII
Regarding the analysis of the obligation to respond to the exercise of rights exercised concerning the "exclusive" patients of the deceased physician, the first element to consider is whether the heirs are medical professionals or not. Only in the affirmative case can they access the medical history to satisfy such rights.
This situation was already noted in the aforementioned Report 496/2007, which indicated that "access by heirs to patient data to address their request (...) regarding the exercise of rights (...) could be prohibited by Law 41/2002 and by Organic Law 15/1999 itself if they do not hold the status of healthcare professional."
Assuming that the heirs are not medical professionals, the first option would be to approach a physician, and here two possibilities would arise from the perspective of data protection, either the communication or transfer of data with the prior consent of the affected parties, or through the figure of the data processor.
In the first possibility, it should be noted what is indicated in Article 9.2 a) of the GDPR and in Article 7 of the GDPR regarding "Conditions for consent," so that as a professional, they can access the data, at least, to satisfy the exercise of the right being raised. In this case, there would be a change of data controller.
Regarding the transfer of data related to the medical history, Report 351/2012 already warned of the possibility of communication of data from the medical history based on consent, indicating the following:
(...) In relation to the transfer of data related to the medical history, the reference norm to be considered, along with Organic Law 15/1999 to which reference has been made, is Law 41/2002, of November 14, the basic regulation of patient autonomy and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation, whose Article 16 regulates possible accesses to the medical history (...)
(...) However, the limitations established by the aforementioned Article 16 of Law 41/2002 do not necessarily imply that the data from the medical history...
Legal Office
clinical history may only be subject to access in the cases enumerated therein, but a transfer could be permissible if there is another regulation with the rank of Law that enables it. (...)
The report dated October 1, 2003, referred to the possible transmission of clinical history data to other healthcare professionals, with the Agency stating in relation to this point that:
“In this case, it should be noted that from the interpretation of the aforementioned article 17.1 and article 18.1 of the Law, which provides that ‘The patient has the right to access, with the reservations indicated in section 3 of this article, the documentation of the clinical history and to obtain a copy of the data contained therein,’ it follows that the data could only be communicated to other healthcare professionals if they were to carry out a diagnostic or treatment activity for the patient or if the patient themselves requested the transmission of their history to their new doctor, without prejudice to the obligation of the previous one to preserve it. In that case, the new doctor would be bound by the same legal duties enshrined in Law 41/2002.”
That is to say, considering that there is no legal provision that enables the intended transfer, the only possibility would be the transfer or communication of data to the inquirer, either due to the existence of explicit consent from the interested parties for the transfer – which does not seem to exist – or by acting as a healthcare professional in a new diagnostic or treatment activity at the request of the patient, under the terms indicated in the previous paragraph in relation to article 18 of Law 41/2002. (...)
(...) the consent of the interested party will indeed be necessary for a private medical professional to access data from the clinical history for which a different professional is responsible, without the mere inclusion of the data in a “shared part” of the clinical history of all of them legitimizing the transfer of the data by itself.
And the second possibility is to turn to another professional but through the figure of the data processor, that is, the heirs would continue to be responsible for the processing, but under the protection of articles 28 of the GDPR and 33 of the LOPDGDD, that professional would become the data processor, so a contract must be signed with the requirements established in section 3 of the aforementioned article 28.
Another possibility would be to turn to the professional medical associations that offer certain services when a healthcare professional has ceased their professional activity. The processing of data that would entail these services would occur under the protection of a legal relationship, where the heirs would continue to be responsible for the processing and the professional association, as in the previous case, would be established as the data processor, having to comply with the obligations arising from such a condition and especially those provided in articles 28 of the GDPR and 33 of the LOPDGDD.
In practice, from the service provided by the professional medical associations, three legal relationships can be deduced:
One main relationship, which will be that established between the heirs (obligated to safeguard the clinical histories and responsible for attending to the rights exercised) and the professional association, in which the latter becomes the data processor and has the knowledge and means necessary for the preservation of the clinical histories and for attending to the rights that may be raised. And two other relationships, which serve the first and depend on the specific characteristics of the service in question, but which are usually one of them with an entity responsible for digitizing the documentation for better management and the other for hosting that information on a server with appropriate security measures.
In this way, the heirs, whose status as non-medical professionals prevents them from verifying the medical data of a patient and who may not have the knowledge or adequate means for the processing of clinical histories, on one hand, place everything related to these in the hands of a professional association and, on the other hand, facilitate the exercise of the rights of the interested parties, which could otherwise be hindered.
If, on the contrary, the heirs are also medical professionals, they could access the clinical histories for the purpose of satisfying the rights exercised. In this case, it is essential to remember that the principle of purpose limitation, which in article 5.1 b) of the GDPR indicates that personal data shall be collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes and shall not be further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes.
VIII
Regarding the second group of patients, those “shared,” the inquirer indicates that they can be considered as joint controllers of the processing.
Article 26 of the GDPR states the following:
1. When two or more controllers jointly determine the purposes and means of processing, they shall be considered...
Legal Office
co-controllers of the processing. The co-controllers shall transparently and by mutual agreement determine their respective responsibilities in complying with the obligations imposed by this Regulation, particularly regarding the exercise of the rights of the data subject and their respective obligations to provide information referred to in Articles 13 and 14, unless, and to the extent that, their respective responsibilities are governed by Union Law or the applicable Member State law. This agreement may designate a point of contact for the data subjects.
2. The agreement referred to in paragraph 1 shall duly reflect the respective functions and relationships of the co-controllers in relation to the data subjects. The essential aspects of the agreement shall be made available to the data subject.
3. Regardless of the terms of the agreement referred to in paragraph 1, data subjects may exercise the rights conferred upon them by this Regulation against, and in relation to, each of the controllers.
For its part, Article 29 of the LOPDGDD under the heading “Assumptions of co-responsibility in processing” provides that:
The determination of the responsibilities referred to in Article 26.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 shall be carried out taking into account the activities actually carried out by each of the co-controllers of the processing.
Considering the above and with the information and documentation attached to the consultation, it cannot be considered that we are facing a case of co-responsibility in the indicated terms, at least formally, since there is no binding agreement or contract in which “their responsibilities are transparently and by mutual agreement determined” in relation to compliance with the GDPR and especially in relation to the data subjects, nor can it be analyzed what activities each of the co-controllers carries out.
Therefore, the CLINIC will be responsible for the processing with the inherent obligations of such condition, and in particular, those arising from the exercise of rights of the medical records for which it is responsible.
However, in relation to the exercises of rights that it receives concerning the medical records for which it is not responsible or that, if it is responsible, are materially not at its disposal, it must communicate this situation to c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
19

                                                          Legal Office
the heirs of the practitioner for the appropriate purposes and to the affected individuals, so that if they believe their rights have been compromised, they may resort to the procedures provided for in Articles 63 and following of the LOPDGDD.
All of this is without prejudice to any legal actions that the CLINIC may consider appropriate to take regarding the medical records for which it is responsible and that it does not have in its possession, and the responsibilities it may have incurred for failing to fulfill its custody obligations.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                       www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
20