THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner
for data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

November 23, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 Exhibition “Sports heroes – remembered or forgotten?

Dealing with the successes of former
GDR Olympic champion today"
from 26.11. until 10.12.2021
 
Due to the current corona situation, this is only possible online
 
Due to the pandemic, the beginning on Friday

Exhibition "Sports heroes - remembered or forgotten?" only

online events possible. face-to-face events

cannot be offered. In order to still see the exhibits,

certificates

and medals

to

show will

the

state representative

for

the data protection

and

the

Offer freedom of information online guidance and

Post video clips online featuring some of the guests of the

Exhibition show their sport and report on it. So

be able

interested

in spite of

pandemic-related

Restrictions see the exhibition and a strong

get an impression of the guests. Also find after

As things currently stand, four of the planned events are online

instead of. The other events will take place if possible

made up for in the coming year.



Within the framework of the exhibition were nine events and

talks planned. The series has now grown to four

Events reduced, all of which are now streamed online

will:

 

The opening on Friday, November 26, at 5:30 p.m. will take place online

instead: After the opening by the state representative

Stefan Brink and the presentation of the light installation “Data to

Light” by conceptual artist Florian Mehnert

Stefan Brink and the sports historian and member of the executive committee

of the German Olympic Academy Professor Annette

Hofmann on the social importance of

Olympic Games, what it means for athletes

be, how we look at them socially, what role they play

Olympic Games

during the East-West conflict

took - and what they mean today.

 

On Saturday, December 4th, 8 p.m., the focus will be on “freedom rights in the

Elite sport” in the round of talks with the Olympic champions

in shot put Udo Beyer and

Ilona Longo (b.

Slupaniek), the discus thrower and Olympic participant

Alwin Wagner and the director of the film

"Lone warrior" Sandra Kaudelka.

 

The sports journalist will be discussing on Wednesday, December 8th, at 6 p.m

Hajo Seppelt, NADA boss Dr.

Lars Mortsiefer,

the German champion in the BMX race Philip Schaub, the

Weightlifter and Olympic participant Sabine Kusterer

and Stefan Brink on the anti-doping system. In the course of

Competitive athletes are transparent in the fight against doping –

almost any personal information you enter price for

computerized control system that – how

youngest

Reports by the sports journalist Hajo Seppelt show - like this

manipulation is that any basis for this

control system appears to be obsolete.

 

At the end, Stefan will speak on Friday, December 10th, at 6:00 p.m

Brink and the Olympic medalist in artistic gymnastics

Eberhard Gienger on “Sports Policy

for athletes:

freedom or duty?

 

 

Further information

 

The updated program and others

information

are on the website of the state representative:

http://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ausstellung_2021

 

The exhibition was conceived and designed by

Education center BIDIB at the state representative for the

Data protection and freedom of information.

 

The exhibition and the accompanying events pay tribute

the successes of partly forgotten sports heroes and

questions the way they are remembered.

At the same time, the LfDI acts as a supervisory authority that advocates for

makes the concerns of freedom and civil rights strong, with

of domestic German sports history, personal rights

of competitive athletes and current developments in

sports area apart.

 

Top athletes are not only special, their freedom

solid

restrictive

surveillance measures

exposed such as the anti-doping system. you pay

because of the "public interest" also their privacy

for example with regard to their state of health. Simultaneously

her job also consists in marketing her personality.

The state commissioner investigates the question of how much freedom

top athletes

have to reveal

around

of their

to follow passion.

 

