

With the aim of better informing entrepreneurs about regulations that are difficult to apply in practice, the Personal Data Protection Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, organizes a free workshop "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)?" which will be held on Tuesday, July 5, 2022, starting at 11:00 a.m. in HGK - County Chamber Varaždin, P. Preradovića 17, Varaždin (3rd floor).
The interactive workshop is intended for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises with the aim of providing support when complying with the GDPR through practical examples and advice. You can register using the registration form available at the link https://www.hgk.hr/zupanijska-komora-varazdin/radionicakako-uskladiti-poslovanje-s-opcom-uredbom-o-zastiti-podataka
The workshop will be held as part of the ARC project - Data protection awareness campaign for small and medium-sized enterprises, co-financed by the EU Program on Rights, Equality and Citizenship.
At the EU level, it is recognized that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have the financial and human resources necessary to comply with the GDPR, have the most problems with compliance. In surveys conducted throughout the EU, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises declare that for them GDPR represents a large administrative and financial burden.
Although the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been in force since May 25, 2018, practical experience shows that there are still many ambiguities in the application of this legal regulation, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
The goal of this workshop is to explain to the participants the doubts they encounter in practice, and the program of the workshop is as follows:
11:00 - 11:30 General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR - key terms
11:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Principles of legal processing of personal data, legal bases for legal processing, privacy policy and data subjects' rights
12:00 – 12:15               Keeping records of processing activities
12:15 – 12:30               Break
12:30 – 13:00             Cookies, technical and organizational measures to protect personal data
13:00 – 13:15               Reporting of personal data breach
13:15 – 13:35               Personal data protection officer
13:35 Questions from workshop participants and discussion
The workshop is free to all participants and registrations are accepted until Monday, July 4, 2022, on a first-come, first-served basis.
Interest in participation is confirmed by mandatory completion of the online form at the link: https://www.hgk.hr/zupanijska-komora-varazdin/radionicakako-uskladiti-poslovanje-s-opcom-uredbom-o-zastiti-podataka
