1/13

 File No.: PS/00391/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated October 29,
2020 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U. (hereinafter the part
claimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are because on October 29, 2020,
at 12:35 p.m., received a business call from the calling line
***TELEPHONE 1. It states that the receiving line (***TELEPHONE.2) is registered in
the Robinson List since 01/16/2014.

Relevant documentation provided by the claimant:
Telephone bill issued by FINETWORK showing ownership of the line.
Email from Adigital indicating that the number of the
claimant.
Email from ***EMAIL.1 dated 4/2/2020, notifying that the
made effective the right of deletion requested by the complaining party to ORANGE
corresponding to a contract associated with a line number owned by the party
earlier claimant. They also specify that, notwithstanding the foregoing, it is not
possible to make the request for deletion effective because there is a contractual relationship with
Jazztel.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on December 28, 2020, said transfer was made
claim to the claimed party, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform the
this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to
the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

On January 22, 2021, this Agency received a written response from the
claimed party, reporting:
“After a study of the claim in question, it has been verified that the
receiving numbering of the calls (the line ***TELÉFONO.2), was registered in
the Internal Advertising Exclusion List of this company on the date of receipt
Of the call. Likewise, it has been found that it is included in the
Robinson List of Advertising Exclusion managed by the Spanish Association of
Digital Economy (hereinafter, Adigital) since January 16, 2014.
In this sense, it is important to point out that the numbering owned by the claimant has not been
object of any commercial communication by any supplier of the communication channel.
distribution of this mercantile, nor by Orange. Additionally
to the foregoing, it has been verified as a result of this claim, that this company
www.agpd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

has not issued calls of a commercial and/or promotional nature to the number of Mr.
A.A.A., not being provided to any supplier of the distribution channel of
Orange.
On the other hand, it has been proven that the numbering that made the commercial call
nº ***TELEPHONE.1 does not belong to or is being employed by this company, nor
neither by any of its suppliers in the distribution channel. to major
abundance, this Agency is informed that the referred numbering is assigned
to the reseller of this company NEOTEL 2000 S.L., ……….
Mr. A.A.A. has been informed of all of the above. via
communication that is attached as annex document No. 1 but that, as there is no
sufficient data in the transferred claim, it is not possible, so we ask
this Agency to send the attached communication to the claimant, as it does not have
sufficient contact information for this purpose.”

THIRD: On February 11, 2021, the application was admitted for processing.
claim filed by the claimant. Next, the Subdirectorate
General Data Inspection proceeded to carry out preliminary actions of
investigation to clarify the facts in question, by virtue of the
investigative powers granted to the control authorities in article 58.1 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter
RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Section
second, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

According to Adigital's response to a request for information, it is confirmed that the
number of the complaining party, ***PHONE.2 is registered in the call channel
telephone calls since January 16, 2014.

Through information obtained from the website of the Association of operators for
portability, it is verified that, at the date of investigation of this file, the
operator of the number originating the calls ***PHONE.1 is FRANCE TELECOM
SPAIN (hereinafter, ORANGE)

Regarding the emission of the call from the claimed number:

According to ORANGE's response, upon request for information on the ownership of the
originating number and making the call from said number to the number of the
complaining party, on October 29, 2020, indicates that:
“In relation to the ownership of the line ***TELÉFONO.1, this merchant comes to
confirm that, after carrying out the mandatory checks, it has been possible to verify that
the indicated numbering is assigned to a reseller of ORANGE ESPAGNE S.A.U.
specifically NEOTEL 2000, SL with CIF B52009743.”
“In relation to the requested traffic data, after having made the appropriate
checks in the systems of this company, the data of
requested traffic.”

According to NEOTEL's response, upon request for information on the ownership of the
originating number and making the call from said number to the number of the
complaining party, on October 29, 2020, indicates that:
The owner of the line ***TELÉFONO.1 on the requested date was ZCALL LEVANTE
S.L., with CIF: B73637225.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

Regarding the call from this number to the complaining party's number,
confirm their completion.

According to a response from ZCALL LEVANTE S.L., to a request for information on
reason for making calls from the number ***PHONE.1 to the number
of the complaining party, and the contractual relationship with ORANGE, indicates that:
Regarding the confirmation of making the call:
“We confirm that the number ***TELÉFONO.1 is contracted by Zcall Levante, S.L.,
but we cannot confirm that said call was made, since the history of
calls are deleted periodically, however, we have requested the company
telephone this consultation.”
Regarding the reason for issuing the call:
“On that date, just out of confinement, they were doing some
calls to arrange commercial visits, I understand that this would be one of the
they."
Regarding the contractual relationship with the Orange company:
“With ORANGE we do not have any contractual relationship, but we have had one with
some official Orange distributor, with whom we have collaborated on some sales.”
On how they receive the numbers to which they must make commercial calls:
“Normally we use a database that we buy.”
Regarding if they consult any list of numbers that cannot be called:
“We have the possibility to check if the number to call is on the list
Robinson or not. When consulted, this number is not on said Robinson list.”
Subsequently, a collaboration contract is requested between ZCALL Levante,
SL and ORANGE or an official distributor of ORANGE products.
They respond to this requirement by providing a commercial contract, with the name
“Zcall Levante collaboration agreement sl.pdf”. This contract establishes a relationship
contract between ZCALL LEVANTE, S.L. (“THE COLLABORATOR”) and MOVILMUR
TELECOMMUNICATIONS, S.L. (“THE COMPANY”), for commercial and technical support
to attract new customers-final consumers of the services that the
COMPANY manages. In turn, the contract specifies that THE COMPANY is a collaborator
of Orange products with the authorized distributor Seven Mobile Communications
2018, S.L. as indicated in section I of said contract.

According to the response of ZCALL LEVANTE S.L., upon request for additional information,
indicates that:
To the question of Who do you get the database of numbers to call?
They answer that they obtain it from CENTRAL DE COMUNICACIONES.ES (***URL.1).
Purchase invoice attached.
Upon request for confirmation that the claimed number (***TELEPHONE.2) is
was in said database at the date of the claimed call, they report:
“We have searched the current database, but the number does not appear
claimant. (databases are updated every year).”
When asked what diligence ZCALL LEVANTE, S.L. to verify that
Said user database has been created with their consent?
they answer:
"We do not check the database, because we understand that it is legal because
They sell it publicly online. (We check on each call if not
is on the Robinson list.)”

Regarding the reception of the call in the number of the complaining party:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

According to the response of WEWI MOBILE S.L., which was the operator of the number of the
complaining party, at the request of information on ownership of the destination number and
the reception of the call in said number from the number of the claimed party, to
date October 29, 2020, indicates:
“According to our files and systems, on October 29, 2020 the
owner of the subscriber line of number ***PHONE.2 was A.A.A. with NIF
***NIF.1. He signed up for FINETWORK on September 11, 2020.”
“In advance, and for the appropriate purposes, we inform this
organization that telecommunications services are provided by VODAFONE
ENABLER ESPAÑA, S.L. (C.I.F. B-82896119), which has signed with FINETWORK a
Collaboration Contract for the commercialization of said services.
Consequently, being the owner of the network VODAFONE ENABLER ESPAÑA, S.L.,
We proceeded to request the required information, obtaining the following response:
"We cannot provide this information, to see this information you need to consult
the retention system and for this a judicial official is required”

According to a response from VODAFONE ESPAÑA, to a request for information on
confirmation of receipt at the number ***PHONE.2 of the call from the
number ***PHONE.1, as of October 29, 2020, indicates that:
“After making the pertinent queries in the internal systems of my client,
it has been identified that none of the numbers, neither the caller nor the receiver,
are assigned to Vodafone, so it is not possible to provide the information
requested.”

FOURTH: By Agreement dated October 13, 2021, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against
the part claimed for the alleged infringements of article 48.1.b) of Law 9/2014,
of May 9, General de Telecomunicaciones (hereinafter, LGT), in relation to
the art. 21 of the RGPD and 23 of the LOPDGDD, and article 28 of the RGPD (typed
in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the RGPD), considered minor in articles 78.11 of the
cited LGT and 74.k) of the LOPDGDD.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement was notified, the claimed party submitted a written
allegations to the aforementioned agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, on the 5th of
November 2021, in which, in summary, it stated:

The facts are recognized, and a request for postponement is also submitted to the
impossibility of making the payment effective, in order to take advantage of the two reductions
of 20%, leaving the debt at 24,000 euros.
Request, in accordance with the provisions of article 65 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, General Tax, and art. 46 of Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, by
which approves the General Collection Regulations, in relation to the sanction
imposed by resolution of the aforementioned Spanish Data Protection Agency.
More time has also been requested to study payment formulas, and provide
documentation that may be required.
Payment in installments, making the following proposal, monthly payment from the 5
December 2021, for 24 months, for an amount of €1,000.
The previous request is justified by the bad results this 2021 of the business and the
lack of cash to pay the sanction and continue with the activity, putting in
knowledge not to be in bankruptcy.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

SIXTH: On April 5, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:
“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, a sanction is made for
ZCALL LEVANTE, S.L. with NIF B73637225, with a fine of €40,000 (forty thousand
euros), for the infringement of Article 28 of the RGPD and Article 48.1.b) of the LGT,
typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD and in Article 78.11 of the LGT,
respectively."

SEVENTH: On May 3, 2022, ZCALL LEVANTE, S.L. presented
allegations to the Proposed Resolution, in summary, in the following terms:

First. Lack of motivation. The agreement to start the sanctioning procedure, as well as
as its resolution proposal, and the sanctions that appear in the file lack
of motivation beyond the simple imposition of the sanction.
Second. Lack of principle of guilt. Sanctions cannot be imposed without
credited, guilt in the act.
Third. Nor would it be appropriate to apply the aggravating factors that appear in the
proposal to start the sanction, and proposal for a resolution, since it cannot be
consider that it acted outside the current regulations, being an anomaly in all
specific case in the management of personal data.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Adigital confirms that the number of the complaining party, ***PHONE.2
has been enrolled in the phone call channel since January 16, 2014.

SECOND: ZCALL LEVANTE S.L. indicates that:
“We confirm that the number ***TELÉFONO.1 is contracted by ZCall Levante,
S.L., but we cannot confirm that said call was made, since the history of
calls are deleted periodically, however, we have requested the company
telephone this consultation.”
Regarding the reason for issuing the call:
“On that date, just out of confinement, they were doing some
calls to arrange commercial visits, I understand that this would be one of the
they."
“With ORANGE we do not have any contractual relationship, but we have had one with
some official Orange distributor, with whom we have collaborated on some sales.”
“Normally we use a database that we buy.”
“We have the possibility to check if the number to call is on the list
Robinson or not. When consulted, this number is not on said Robinson list.”
“We have searched the current database, but the number does not appear
claimant. (databases are updated every year).”
"We do not check the database, because we understand that it is legal because
They sell it publicly online. (We check on each call if not
is on the Robinson list.)”

THIRD PARTY: ZCALL LEVANTE S.L. made a publicity call to the number of
telephone ***TELEPHONE.2, owned by the claimant, number registered in the
ADIGITAL's telephone call channel, objecting to receiving calls
advertising.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the provisions of article 84.3) of Law 9/2014, of May 9,
General Telecommunications (hereinafter, LGT) and as established in the
Articles 47 and 48.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

Finally, the fourth additional provision "Procedure in relation to the
competences attributed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency by other
laws" establishes that: "The provisions of Title VIII and its implementing regulations
will apply to the procedures that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data would have to be processed in the exercise of the powers attributed to it by
other laws."

II

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent party to the Settlement Agreement
Start, the following should be noted:

The entity acknowledges the facts, and the request for installment and postponement of the
Payment must be addressed to the General Secretariat of this Agency.

III

And in response to the arguments presented by the respondent party to the Proposal
Resolution, the following is stated:

As has already been indicated in the previous ground, the respondent party has recognized
the facts. And not only in the response to the request for information that was
sent, but also in the allegations to the Home Agreement.
Now he alleges lack of motivation and guilt.
Well, in the Proven Facts it is credited:
That the receiving number of the call is registered in the Robinson List of ADIGITAL
since 2014.
That the claimed party acknowledges that the calling number is contracted by ZCall
Levante, S.L.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

That although they cannot confirm the call because the databases are updated
every year, on that date calls were being made to agree on
business visits.
That they have collaborated in some sales with an official Orange distributor.
That the database is bought online.
They checked the number to call and it's not on the Robinson List.
  
On the guilt, which is recognized by the claimed party:
This Agency has carried out an exhaustive preliminary investigation in order to purge
responsibilities in the violation of the rights and freedoms of the party
claimant and has collected sufficient evidence to undermine the principle of
presumption of innocence. Said investigation and evidence against him are
detailed in the background to this resolution.
They also allege that it would not be appropriate to apply the aggravating circumstances, since it is “an anomaly in
any specific case in the management of personal data”.
It is evident that the complaining party has had to initiate actions before this AEPD,
despite the fact that the receiving number of the call is registered in the Robinson List of
ADIGITAL for years before the call object of this procedure was made.
And the same claimant party acknowledges that on that date they were making
Calls to arrange commercial visits.

Finally, the entity NEOTEL indicates that, as of October 29, 2020, the
ownership of the line ***TELÉFONO.1 corresponded to ZCALL LEVANTE S.L., and
confirms making the call from this number to the party's number
claimant.

IV

In relation to telephone calls, the exercise of the right of
opposition in article 21 of the RGPD, where it is established that:

"1. The interested party shall have the right to object at any time, for reasons
related to your particular situation, to which personal data concerning you
are subject to processing based on the provisions of Article 6, paragraph 1,
letters e) or f), including profiling on the basis of these provisions.
The controller will stop processing the personal data, unless
prove compelling legitimate reasons for the treatment that prevail over the
interests, rights and freedoms of the interested party, or for the formulation, the
exercise or defense of claims.

2. When the processing of personal data is for marketing purposes
directly, interested gel will have the right to oppose at any time the treatment of
the personal data that concerns you, including the elaboration of profiles in the
insofar as it is related to said marketing.

3. When the interested party opposes the treatment for direct marketing purposes,
personal data will no longer be processed for these purposes.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

4. At the latest at the time of the first communication with the data subject, the
right indicated in sections 1 and 2 will be explicitly mentioned to the interested party
and will be presented clearly and apart from any other information.

5. In the context of the use of information society services, and not
Notwithstanding the provisions of Directive 2002/58/EC, the interested party may exercise their
right to oppose by automated means that apply specifications
techniques.

6. When personal data is processed for the purpose of scientific research or
historical or statistical purposes in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, the
The interested party shall have the right, for reasons related to his particular situation, to
oppose the processing of personal data that concerns you, unless it is
necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out for reasons of interest
public."

v

Article 23 of the LOPDGDD provides for the creation of advertising exclusion systems,
in which people who do not wish to receive communications can register
commercial, providing that:

"1. The processing of personal data that is intended to avoid sending
of commercial communications to those who have expressed their refusal or
opposition to receiving them.
For this purpose, information systems, general or sectoral, may be created in the
that only the essential data to identify those affected will be included. These
systems may also include preference services, through which
affected limit the reception of commercial communications to those from
certain companies.

2. The entities responsible for the advertising exclusion systems will notify
the competent control authority, its creation, its general or sectoral nature, as well
as the way in which those affected can join them and, where appropriate,
assert your preferences.
The competent control authority will make public in its electronic headquarters a list
of the systems of this nature that were communicated to it, incorporating the
information mentioned in the previous paragraph. To this end, the supervisory authority
authority to which the creation of the system has been communicated will put it in
knowledge of the remaining control authorities for publication by all
they.

3. When an affected person expresses to a person in charge his desire that his data not
are treated for the sending of commercial communications, it must inform you
of the
existing advertising exclusion systems, being able to refer to the information
published by the competent control authority.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

4. Those who intend to carry out direct marketing communications must
previously consult the advertising exclusion systems that could affect your
action, excluding from the treatment the data of those affected who would have
expressed their opposition or refusal to it. For these purposes, to consider
Once the previous obligation has been fulfilled, it will be enough to consult the exclusion systems
included in the list published by the competent control authority.
It will not be necessary to carry out the query referred to in the previous paragraph when the
affected had provided, in accordance with the provisions of this organic law, his
consent to receive the communication to whoever intends to make it.”

SAW

The proven facts would constitute an infraction, attributable to ZCALL
LEVANTE, S.L., for violation of article 48.1.b) of the LGT, included in its Title III,
which indicates the following:

"1. Regarding the protection of personal data and privacy in relation to the
unsolicited communications end users of communications services
electronic will have the following rights:

a) Not to receive automatic calls without human intervention or fax messages, with
purposes of commercial communication without having given your prior consent and
informed for it.

b) To oppose receiving unwanted calls for commercial communication purposes
that are carried out through systems other than those established in the previous letter and
be informed of this right.”

The infringement of art. 48.1.b) is classified as minor in article 78.11 of the LGT, which
considers as such: “The breach of public service obligations, of the
public obligations and the violation of consumer rights
and end users, as established in Title III of the Law and its regulations on
developing".

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of up to 50,000 euros, according to
with article 79.1.d) of the aforementioned LGT.

“Article 79 Sanctions”

"1. For the commission of the infractions typified in the previous articles,
The following penalties will be imposed:

“d) For the commission of minor infractions, the offender will be imposed a fine of
amount of up to 50,000 euros.

In accordance with the proven facts, it is considered appropriate to graduate the
sanction to be imposed in accordance with the following criteria established in article 80
of the LGT:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

As aggravating factors:

Art 80.1 of the LGT.

c) The benefit that has been reported to the offender by the fact that is the subject of the infraction. The
promotional actions are aimed at obtaining profits
business.

d) The damage caused and its repair. The claimant has had to bring actions
before this AEPD.

Considering the exposed factors, the initial valuation that reaches the amount of the
fine for infringement of article 48.1.b) of the LGT charged is €20,000 (twenty thousand
euros).

Article 28 of the GDPR establishes the following:

7th

Treatment Manager

 
"1. When a treatment is going to be carried out on behalf of a person in charge of the
treatment, this will only choose a person in charge who offers sufficient guarantees
to apply appropriate technical and organizational measures, so that the
treatment is in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation and guarantees the
protection of the rights of the interested party.
2. The person in charge of treatment will not resort to another person in charge without prior authorization
in writing, specific or general, of the person in charge. In the latter case, the manager
will inform the person in charge of any change foreseen in the incorporation or
replacement of other processors, thus giving the controller the opportunity to oppose
to these changes.
3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act with
under the law of the Union or of the Member States, binding the person in charge
with respect to the person in charge and establish the object, duration, nature and
purpose of the treatment, the type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the
obligations and rights of the controller. Said contract or legal act shall stipulate, in
particular, that the person in charge:
a) will process personal data only following documented instructions of the
responsible, including with respect to transfers of personal data to a
third country or an international organization, unless required to do so under
of the Law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the person in charge; in
In such a case, the person in charge will inform the person in charge of that legal requirement prior to the
treatment, unless such Law prohibits it for important reasons of interest
public;
b) will guarantee that the persons authorized to process personal data have
committed to respecting confidentiality or are subject to an obligation of
confidentiality of a statutory nature;
c) take all necessary measures in accordance with article 32;
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

d) will respect the conditions indicated in sections 2 and 4 to resort to another
treatment manager;
e) will assist the person in charge, taking into account the nature of the treatment, through
appropriate technical and organizational measures, whenever possible, so that this
can comply with its obligation to respond to requests that are intended to
the exercise of the rights of the interested parties established in chapter III;
f) will help the person in charge to guarantee the fulfillment of the obligations
established in articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the treatment
and the information available to the person in charge;
g) at the choice of the person in charge, will delete or return all personal data once
Once the provision of treatment services ends, and will delete the copies
existing unless the retention of personal data is required under
of the Law of the Union or of the Member States;
h) will make available to the person in charge all the information necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the obligations established in this article, as well as
to enable and assist in the performance of audits, including inspections, by
part of the person in charge or of another auditor authorized by said person in charge.
In relation to the provisions of letter h) of the first paragraph, the person in charge will inform
immediately to the controller if, in his opinion, an instruction violates this
Regulation or other provisions on data protection of the Union or of
the member states.
4. When a person in charge of the treatment resorts to another person in charge to carry out
certain treatment activities on behalf of the person in charge, will be imposed on
this other manager, by contract or other legal act established in accordance with the
Law of the Union or of the Member States, the same obligations of
data protection than those stipulated in the contract or other legal act between the
responsible and the person in charge referred to in section 3, in particular the provision
of sufficient guarantees of application of appropriate technical and organizational measures
so that the treatment is in accordance with the provisions of this
Regulation. If that other processor breaches its data protection obligations,
the initial processor will remain fully accountable to the controller
treatment with regard to the fulfillment of the obligations of the other
duty manager.
5. The treatment manager's adherence to a code of conduct approved by
under article 40 or to an approved certification mechanism under article
42 may be used as an element to demonstrate the existence of guarantees
enough referred to in sections 1 and 4 of this article.
6. Without prejudice to the fact that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment celebrate a
individual contract, the contract or other legal act referred to in sections 3 and 4
of this article may be based, totally or partially, on the clauses
standard contracts referred to in sections 7 and 8 of this article, inclusive
when they form part of a certification granted to the person in charge or in charge of
in accordance with articles 42 and 43.
7. The Commission may establish standard contractual clauses for the matters to which it is
referred to in sections 3 and 4 of this article, in accordance with the procedure of
examination referred to in article 93, paragraph 2.
8. A supervisory authority may adopt standard contractual clauses for the
matters referred to in sections 3 and 4 of this article, in accordance with the
coherence mechanism referred to in article 63.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

9. The contract or other legal act referred to in sections 3 and 4 shall be recorded by
written, including in electronic format.
10. Without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84, if a person in charge of the
treatment infringes this Regulation by determining the purposes and means of the
treatment, will be considered responsible for the treatment with respect to said
treatment"

viii

It has been verified that, in the contract signed by ZCALL LEVANTE, S.L. with the
in charge of the treatment, no instructions are collected on the need to
consult the Robinson List, so it is not appreciated that the entity has violated the
Article 28 of the RGPD.

IX

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the graduation criteria of
sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ZCALL LEVANTE, S.L. with NIF B73637225, for a
infringement of Article 48.1.b) of the LGT, typified in Article 78.11 of the LGT, a
fine of €20,000.00 (TWENTY THOUSAND euros).

SECOND: AGREE TO FILE the violation of Article 28 of the RGPD
imputed in the present sanctioning procedure, as there were no signs of
infringement.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to ZCALL LEVANTE, S.L.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that the sanction imposed must be made effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, within the voluntary payment period indicated in the
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, by depositing it in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000, opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the entity
bank CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will be collected in
executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, the interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulatory of the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the term of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if
the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

815-050522

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

