1(4)

Svea Collection AB
 

Diary number:
IMY-2022-1292

Date:
2022-06-30

Decision after supervision according to the Debt Collection Act
- Svea Inkasso AB

The Privacy Protection Authority's decision
IMY states that Svea Inkasso AB, in violation of Section 4 of the Debt Collection Act (1974:182), has
exposed debtors to an undue pressure by in debt collection claims that are aimed at
private persons state that failure to pay within the deadline means that the debtor can
get a payment note.

The Privacy Protection Authority assumes that Svea Inkasso AB takes measures to
remedy the pointed out deficiency.

The case is closed.
Statement of the matter

On April 28, 2022, the Swedish Privacy Agency (IMY) carried out an inspection at
Svea Inkasso AB (hereafter Svea Inkasso). The inspection was carried out with
reason for IMY routinely visiting large players who have debt collection permits.

The purpose of the inspection was to gain an understanding of how the business is conducted and to
review Svea Inkasso's routines for the debt collection procedure. Issues raised at
the inspection included, among other things, any changes in the business,
the debt collection procedure initially, the design of the debt collection claim, use of digital mailboxes
and sending of debt collection claims via SMS, handling of disputes and selection of
form of process, amortization plan and follow-up. At the time of the inspection was also done
a follow-up to the previous supervisory cases dnr 1016-2014, dnr 271-2015 and dnr
1940-2014.
Justification of the decision
Applicable regulations

Debt collection operations must be conducted in accordance with good debt collection practices (section 4 of the Debt Collection Act). What ever
is a good collection oath appears from §§ 5-11 of the Collection Act, of the general advice
"Application of the Debt Collection Act" and IMY's practice in debt collection matters.

 

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: IMY-2022-1292
Date: 2022-06-30
 

2(4)

 

Wording in debt collection claims about payment notice

Applicable regulations, etc.
According to Section 4 of the Debt Collection Act, debt collection activities must be carried out in accordance with good
debt collector, i.e. the debtor must not be caused unnecessary damage or inconvenience or exposed
for undue pressure or other undue collection action.

Background
The debt collection requirements that Svea Inkasso uses in its operations contain the following information
stated "This claim is sent according to Section 6 of the Debt Collection Act which states that legal action
may not be taken before demands according to Section 5 of the Debt Collection Act have been sent. If you haven't paid
no later than DATE we can take legal action. You then risk increased costs
and can also receive a payment notice.”

According to what Svea Inkasso stated during the inspection, Svea Inkasso's formulation aims at
the debt collection claim in terms of "...and can also get a payment notice" to give
the debtor information about what may happen in the event of non-payment, i.e.
that the debtor at a later stage risks receiving a payment notice in the event of the debt
is determined by a default judgment or by a ruling from the Swedish Enforcement Agency.
In addition to the wording in the debt collection claim, the debtor can via "My pages" or by
call Svea Inkasso to get more detailed information about, among other things, how and at what stage
a payment remark arises.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority's assessment
Svea Inkasso provides information about payment notices in its debt collection requirements according to
the following: "You then risk increased costs and may also receive one
payment note.”

IMY believes that there are generally no obstacles for debt collection companies to i
debt collection requirements inform that the debtor risks receiving a payment notice at
missing payment. With particular regard to the fact that a payment note can get
serious consequences for debtors, for example regarding the possibility of taking out loans, rent
residence and the like, it is however important that such information is objectively correct. The
must therefore be clear to the debtor at which stage a payment notice can
will be registered.

If a debtor has not paid within the time prescribed on the debt collection claim, a
debt collection company the opportunity to bring an action in court through an application for summons
or apply for a payment order with the Swedish Enforcement Agency to try to get
paid for the claim. Both of these procedures are associated with costs which
the debt collection company has the right to demand compensation from the debtor. The risk of increased
costs for the debtor are thus a direct consequence of non-payment if
the debt collection company chooses to use the applicable procedures to get paid for
claim. The information about that in the current debt collection claim - "You then risk getting increased
costs…” - thus correspond to real conditions.

A payment notice, on the other hand, presupposes, in cases where the claim is directed against one
private person, that the debt has first been established through a default judgment or through a
ruling from the Enforcement Directorate in the case of a payment order. One
A payment notice is thus not a direct consequence of non-payment
partly presupposes that the debt collection company applies for summons or alternatively applies for
payment order partly that the debt has subsequently been established.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: IMY-2022-1292
Date: 2022-06-30
 

3(4)

 

IMY states that the information that Svea Inkasso provides in its debt collection claims
addressed to private individuals if the payment note does not contain any
clarifications about at which stage a payment notice may be imposed.
By stating this information in the same sentence as the risk of being imposed increased
costs, is instead rather given the appearance that the payment note would be a direct one
consequence of non-payment, which is incorrect when the debtor is a private person. This
may result in the debtor paying, without checking the claim more closely
the debt collection claim for fear of otherwise receiving a payment notice.

By designing the information in the debt collection claim, in cases where the claim is directed against a
private person, in a way that gives the appearance that the payment note can be a direct one
as a result of the debtor not paying on time, IMY considers that the debtor is subjected to undue
pressure and that the current information in Svea Inkasso's debt collection claim is therefore in
conflict with good debt collection oath and § 4 of the debt collection act.

IMY assumes that Svea Inkasso AB reformulates and clarifies the information in its
debt collection claims directed against private individuals in this part.

Miscellaneous
What has otherwise emerged in the case does not prompt any comments from IMY.

 

This decision has been taken by the unit manager Catharina Fernquist after a presentation by
lawyer Karin Ekström.

  

Catharina Fernquist, 2022-06-30 (This is an electronic signature)

 

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: IMY-2022-1292
Date: 2022-06-30
 

4(4)

 

How to appeal

If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Privacy Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision is being appealed and the change you are requesting. The appeal
must have been received by the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the day you
was informed of the decision. The Privacy Protection Authority forwards the appeal to
Administrative Court in Stockholm for review, if the authority does not change the decision itself
in the way you have requested. The Chancellor of Justice may also appeal the decision to safeguard
public interests. However, the time for appeals to the Chancellor of Justice is counted from it
day the decision was announced.

You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

