Moritz Körner,
Member of the European Paliament

By e-mail only

Dear Mr Körner,

Brussels, 16 June 2020

Ref: Out-2020-0062

Thank you for your letter of 23 January 2020 as regards your proposal on the possibility of establishing
that all new laptops entering the EU market would need to be equipped with a physical camera cover
based on article 25 GDPR.

The measures aimed at protecting and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of natural persons must
be established by the controller. Although manufacturers should be encouraged to take into account
the right to data protection when developing and designing such products, services and applications,
they are not responsible  for  the  processing carried  out with  their  products1. The  GDPR  does  not
provide for means to establish legal obligations on manufacturers, unless they also act as controllers
or processors.

The GDPR does not specify any specific measure to fulfil the requirements of data protection by design
and by default. Therefore, the controller shall choose the most appropriate measures according to the
circumstances for the specific processing. As indicated in your letter, the physical camera cover is a
tested, simple, cheap and efficient technology to prevent the camera from unduly collecting images.
Nevertheless,  there  are  other  measures that  could also be  taken  into consideration,  inter alia,
incorporating a physical on/off switch, or an easy way to deactivate the camera.

In addition, there are software solutions that can serve the same purpose and that give the control to
the user. Nonetheless, the use of a software measure could present other associated risks, like bugs,
introduction  of  unwanted  “features”  or the  possibility  of  disabling  the measure  through  remote
access.

1 See Recital 78 of the GDPR.

1

To summarize, the objective of the controller shall be to provide sufficient guarantees to implement
appropriate technical and organisational measures in such manner that the processing will meet the
requirements of the GDPR and ensure the protection of the rights of the data subject. The controller
shall choose  the  most  appropriate  measures  for each specific processing according  to the
circumstances and following a risk assessment, in compliance with the GDPR.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

2

