 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

April 29, 2020

 
 
  LfDI: Good decision for Threema - schools need more orientation

 

The schools presented the new teaching situation in times of the Corona health crisis
the mammoth task of converting teaching to digital forms of teaching on an ad hoc basis. With
Teachers responded with great commitment and creativity and related
Video conferencing portals, instant messaging services and interactive learning platforms in
the lesson. In doing so, they also followed the request of the Ministry of Education to digitally
tal tools to communicate, learn and work from anywhere
to be able to - however, the necessary data protection tests remained
genes and measures frequently on the route.
 
The consequences were not only the "abstract" violation of valid legal regulations
but very specific threats and violations of the rights of shooters
students. This was demonstrated by the example announced last week
reported case that at a school in Freiburg during a video lesson
pornographic images were imported – when using the US video service
Zoom. "Even in exceptional situations like the current
genes are not exposed to data protection-violating and dangerous digital tools
be," warns the LfDI Baden-Württemberg Dr. Stefan Brink.
 
LfDI Brink welcomes all the more emphatically that the Ministry of Education Baden-
Württemberg has decided in anticipation of the digital education platform, everyone
Teachers in the country use the instant messaging service Threema Work for official purposes
made available for use free of charge. "This step demonstrates
that there is a compromise between the short-term provision of digital solutions
genes in times of crisis and the protection of the data of all those involved," emphasizes Brink.
Unlike the widely used US messenger WhatsApp, Threema works
data protection compliant and is reliable and user-friendly. "If you want

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

you can offer the dominant US providers better European solutions
oppose Their advantage is precisely that they share our values
Actively support data protection,” argues Brink. The LfDI advises the Ministry of Education
rium since last year to introduce a data protection-compliant digital
Educational platform, bringing its data protection and technological
expertise included.
 
Schools in particular need guidance and support in this situation.
pointed and must when it comes to the difficult question of data protection-compliant services
be better supported. “There is considerable uncertainty locally as to what is going on
and what not. The schools are often overwhelmed with this task, 'experimental
tierfreude' cannot handle the new means of communication competently
replace,” warns LfDI Brink, whose authority is dealing with a large number of inquiries
faced by schools and teachers.
 
Especially at the moment, very problematic services such as
the particularly popular US video conferencing service Zoom is used. Zoom is
in recent months, especially as a desktop version through a number of heavier
Security and privacy issues have come under fire. Whether known security
vulnerabilities where attackers could take over the entire computer system,
have now been fully resolved is not clear at this time. In addition, the
ge collection and use of user data by Zoom fear that this
be used for tracking and economic exploitation of the users -
also to the detriment of our students. This can be
according to the installation of this video service. Even with the browser-based
When using Zoom, so-called trackers are used, e.g. by Google, which
personal information about students in school lessons
collect. A data protection-compliant use of Zoom for teaching is thus
not possible – the “Freiburg case” also teaches us this.
 
The LfDI therefore calls on all schools and teachers to provide the state free of charge
Data protection-friendly learning platform Moodle provided, together with the relevant
video conferencing system BigBlueBut- specially tailored to online learning
to use sound - because such alternatives are both: practical and data
protection compliant.
 
You can find further guidelines on the subject of “support for schools” here
and on the subject of "data protection-friendly options for communication".
 

- 3 -

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-13.
 
Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at
www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.
 
The press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-
wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.
 
 
 
  

