Region Central Jutland recommended for a fine
Date: 08-09-2021
News
The Danish Data Protection Authority assesses that the Central Jutland Region had not established appropriate access restrictions to an archive in a lifestyle centre.
The Danish Data Protection Authority has reported the Central Jutland Region to the police for not ensuring a sufficiently high level of security around the region's storage of patient records in an archive in Livstilscenter Brædstrup. The Danish Data Protection Authority has recommended a fine of DKK 400,000.
On 12 June 2020, the Danish Data Protection Authority received a notification of a breach of personal data security from Region Midtjylland. The report stated that all patients and employees of a lifestyle center had had access to a building where up to 100,000 physical patient records containing, among other things, were stored. health information and social security number information. In addition, it was possible for passers-by to see the cover of some of the journals - where the social security number, name and specialty appeared - through a window to the building.
The accidental access was due to the fact that the key cards that employees and patients were given gave access to all three buildings in Livstilscenter Brædstrup, regardless of whether the user had a need for this. In addition, the windows of the building were not frosted or similar.
In this connection, the Data Protection Authority found that the Central Jutland Region had not established appropriate security measures around the storage of the personal data.
Inadequate security measures
In connection with the processing of the case by the Danish Data Protection Authority, Region Central Jutland stated that the accidental access had occurred since the archive's move to the lifestyle center in 2016, and that the region had not carried out periodic checks of the physical security measures during the period.
When reporting the breach, Region Central Jutland had stated that the region had guidelines for who is given access to which rooms at the hospital that ran the Brædstrup Lifestyle Center. The region submitted several versions of the same guideline dealing with "ID cards and access control," which was a guideline that did not mention patient access by key card or through a window. In all versions, the guideline focuses on staff, including pupils, students and other non-permanent employees. Another guideline only focused on guiding in the practical production of key cards, and not in which access should be granted to the various key cards.
The Danish Data Protection Authority generally found that the Central Jutland Region had not established appropriate physical security measures around the storage of the physical patient records, including that the region had not established sufficient guidelines for access restrictions when producing key cards, and that the region had not carried out appropriate regular testing, assessment and evaluation of safety measures.
"Regions must take good care of the large amounts of health information that they process, which they did not do in this situation. That all employees and patients who were at a lifestyle center have had access to an archive with approx. 100,000 patient records, is a serious mistake that should have been discovered earlier. The region should have had very clear guidelines for coding and the use of key cards, and should have regularly checked whether the access management was working as it should," explains Frederik Viksøe Siegumfeldt, head of office at the Data Protection Authority.
Why report to the police?
The Danish Data Protection Authority always makes a concrete assessment of the seriousness of the case pursuant to Article 83, paragraph 1 of the Data Protection Regulation. 2, when assessing which sanction is the correct one in the opinion of the supervisory authority.
In assessing that a fine should be imposed, the Danish Data Protection Authority has emphasized that the Central Jutland Region processes large amounts of special categories of personal data, including health information, and thus has a heightened obligation to protect this information with sufficient access restrictions. In addition, the Danish Data Protection Authority has emphasis has been placed on the fact that it has been the supervisory authority's assessment that in previous cases which the supervisory authority has dealt with, the Central Jutland Region has had challenges with access management and access restriction for the processing of personal data.
Do you want to know more?
You can read about how to protect personal data here.