  

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

Berlin, January 27, 2022

 

European Data Protection Day: think about data protection at an early stage

 

On the occasion of the 16th European Data Protection Day on January 28, 2022, Volker Brozio appeals

Acting Head of Department of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and

Freedom of information, as a lesson from the corona pandemic, to think about data protection at an early stage:

 

“European Data Protection Day underscores the crucial role of data protection in our

Company. As fundamental rights, data protection and privacy serve to protect people and

are essential for a functioning democracy. The corona pandemic has shown in which

There is still an enormous need to catch up on data protection-compliant solutions in some areas. Whether at

video conferencing systems in schools and universities or the digitization of the

Healthcare system: Digital technology must be designed in accordance with data protection from the outset. We

must learn from the experiences of the pandemic in order to be better prepared for the future.”

 

On the occasion of the European Data Protection Day, the conference of the independent

Data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) on Friday for a

online event. The focus this year is on the EU Commission's plans for a

European digital identity (EUid).

 

In the future, all companies and citizens should be able to use this digital wallet

can digitally identify Europe-wide. In addition, a link between the national electronic

Identity with other official documents or medical prescriptions may be possible. On the

At the event, guests from civil society, authorities and science will discuss the

data protection implications of the European project.

 

About the European Data Protection Day

Since 2007, on the initiative of the Council of Europe, the European Data Protection Day has been celebrated annually on January 28th

committed. The day commemorates the signing of the Council of Europe Convention 108 in 1981.

 
 
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI)

Friedrichstr. 219, 10969 Berlin
Visitor entrance: Puttkamer Str. 16-18

 

 
 
Phone: (030) 13889-900
Fax: (030) 215 50 50

Responsible: Simon Rebiger
Office: Cristina Vecchi

 
 
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
Internet: www.datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 



Convention 108 is the most important internationally binding treaty on data protection and data protection
was modernized in 2018 with a change log.

 

 

2

