GZ: 2020-0.517.926 from October 20, 2020 (case number: DSB-D124.2493)
 
[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and email addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc., as well as
their initials and abbreviations may be abbreviated for reasons of pseudonymization
and/or changed. Obvious spelling, grammar and punctuation errors
have been corrected.]
 
 

NOTICE

S P R U C H

The data protection authority decides on Manuel A***'s data protection complaint

(Appellant) of April 29, 2020, amended on May 27, 2020, against the Magistrate of

City of Wiener Neustadt (respondent) for violation of the right to secrecy

as follows:

 The complaint is dismissed as unfounded.

Legal bases: §§ 1 paragraphs 1 and 2, 24 paragraphs 1 and 5 of the Data Protection Act (DSG),

Federal Law Gazette I No. 165/1999 as amended; Art. 4, 5, 6, Art. 51 (1), Art. 57 (1) lit. f and Art. 77 (1).

of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter: GDPR), OJ.

No. L 119 of 4.5.2016 p. 1; §§ 1, 12 para. 4, 13 and 48 para. 5 of the Lower Austrian Social Welfare

Implementation Act (NÖ SAG), LGBl. No. 70/2019 as amended; Wr. Neustadt municipal law 1977,

LGBl. 1025-0 (WV) as amended; Section 19 of the Lower Austrian City Rights Organization Act (NÖ STROG), LGBl.

1026-0 as amended.

A. Submissions of the parties and course of the proceedings

REASON

1. With submission of April 29, 2020, improved on May 27, 2020, the complainant made

alleged a violation of the right to secrecy and essentially justified this

with the fact that the City Council of Wiener Neustadt, Division ***, Group *** him

thereby violated his right that within the framework of the social assistance granted to him

Satisfaction of the housing requirement Payment of remuneration directly to the responsible landlord

had taken place, as a result of which the complainant was forcibly "outed" as a recipient of social assistance

been and experienced stigmatization.

2. With the settlement of May 28, 2020, the data protection authority requested the respondent

for comment.

3. With a submission dated June 26, 2020, the Respondent commented on this and led

summarized from that the complainant due to his related

(Extension) application with notification of April 9, 2020 Assistance according to the Lower Austria SAG

(beginning April 1, 2020) had been granted. According to § 12 paragraph 4 leg. cit. be

To grant social assistance benefits primarily as benefits in kind, in particular

Benefits to satisfy the housing needs are according to the specifications of Lower Austria

state government directly by paying the rent to the landlord.

4. With the date of July 10, 2020, the data protection authority granted the complainant

Hearing of parties and the right to comment.

5. By submission of July 30, 2020, the complainant essentially kept his reimbursed

arguments and added that he was of the opinion that benefits

primarily, however, are not to be explicitly granted as benefits in kind.

B. Subject of Complaint

Based on the submissions of the complainant, it is clear that the subject of the complaint

the question is whether the Respondent thereby entitled the Complainant to

has violated secrecy by directly making payments to cover the

Has paid or is paying housing costs to the landlord and thus information of the

complainant (i.e. the fact of receiving social assistance) to third parties.

C. Findings of Facts

The respondent is the Magistrate of the City of Wiener Neustadt.

With a decision dated April 9, 2020, the complainant was, starting April 1, 2020

Social assistance benefits from public funds to meet housing needs

granted.

The applicant lives in a rented apartment.

As part of the social benefit granted to the complainant, the

Respondent to (partially) cover the complainant's housing costs

Monthly payments (currently €366.94) directly to their landlord via

Payment order made to the corresponding contract account.

Evidence: The findings are based on the

insofar

concurring arguments of the parties, than that in particular the arguments of

Complainant's payments would be made directly to the complainant's landlord

done by the Respondent as part of his statement of June 26, 2020

have been confirmed.

D. In legal terms it follows that:

D.1. To impute the alleged violation of the right to secrecy

First of all, it should be noted that the complainant was the magistrate of the city of Wiener

Neustadt as responsible for the alleged data breach.

For social assistance benefits according to the Lower Austrian SAG, according to § 39 para. 1 leg. cit the

district administrative authority

thorough

responsible. the

state government

and

the

District administration authorities are jointly responsible under data protection law (cf.

§ 48 para. 1 Lower Austria SAG).

As the organ of the city of Wiener Neustadt, the magistrate takes care of the city's business

official tasks of its own sphere of activity and is the auxiliary body of the mayor

in the affairs of the district administration (§ 19 Z 4 and § 47 Abs. 1 NÖ STROG).

Against this background, the Respondent is subject to data protection law

to qualify responsible.

D.2. For the alleged infringement

1. § 1 para. 1 DSG stipulates that everyone, in particular with regard to respect

of his private and family life, right to secrecy of those concerning him

personal data, insofar as there is a legitimate interest in it. That

Existence of such an interest is excluded if data as a result of their general

availability or due to their lack of traceability to the person concerned

secrecy claim are not accessible.

According to Art. 4 Z 1 GDPR, "personal data" is all information relating to

relate to an identified or identifiable natural person (“data subject”); as

identifiable is a natural person who directly or indirectly, in particular

by association with an identifier such as a name, an identification number

Location data, an online identifier or one or more special

characteristics expressing the physical, physiological, genetic, psychological,

economic, cultural or social identity of this natural person

can be. According to the case law of the European Court of Justice (ECJ), the

The term personal data should be interpreted broadly and also includes information

about the person in question. This condition is met if the information

because of their content, purpose or impact with a specific person

is linked (cf. ECJ 20.12.2017, C-434/16, paragraph 34 f.).

As stated, the Respondent – on the basis of the Complainant

social benefits granted to meet housing needs – ongoing remuneration payments

directly to the complainant's landlord (via payment order to the

corresponding contract account).

Against the background that the payments made directly to the landlord

actual housing costs of the complainant or the relevant contract account

are attributed and thus transmitted as part of the payment order

Information is in any case linked to the complainant or assigned to him

must be assumed in the present case that the complainant

is clearly identifiable within the meaning of the GDPR.

In addition, through the direct linkable with the complainant

payment of the Respondent to the Landlord disclosed to the Landlord the fact that

that the complainant received social assistance benefits (i.e. benefits to satisfy

of housing needs)

relates. On

this

information

is

a 

worthy of protection

Interest in secrecy in any case to be affirmed, since this is private information

which is not generally available.

2. According to Section 1 (2) DSG, restrictions on the right to secrecy are only permissible if

if the use of personal data is in the vital interest of the

Affected or with his consent, in the case of overriding legitimate interests

another or in the presence of a qualified legal basis.

In the present case, the receipt of social assistance was not disclosed in the

vital interest and there is no doubt that there is no consent in this regard.

However, the Respondent is responsible for the public sector

qualify, which according to § 1 para. 2 DSG the restriction of the secrecy claim

of the complainant is to be examined on the basis of a qualified legal basis:

According to § 12 Para. 4 NÖ SAG, social assistance benefits are primarily granted as benefits in kind

grant, insofar as a higher efficiency of the fulfillment of the performance goals can be expected

is. Benefits for housing needs are provided unless this is uneconomical or inexpedient

is to be granted in kind. A direct payment is also considered a payment in kind

Payment of remuneration to a person who receives a benefit in kind for the benefit of a beneficiary

he brings.

According to § 13 NÖ SAG, benefits to satisfy the housing requirement include the for the

warranty

one

appropriate housing situation

required

regularly

recurring expenses for rent, household goods, heating and electricity as well as other general ones

operating costs and taxes.

In the present case - as stated - the complainant by decision of

April 9, 2020 as part of social assistance benefits to meet housing needs

granted. The execution of the said decision takes place in the form of benefits in kind

(starting April 1, 2020 monthly) a direct payment (currently in the amount of

€366.94 via money order) to cover the complainant's housing costs

its landlord.

Already in the explanatory remarks to § 12 paragraph 4 NÖ SAG (cf. IA to line 690/A-1/50-

2019) it is explicitly stated that benefits in kind are all benefits through which the

Beneficiaries receive neither directly nor indirectly money, which is why the

direct payment to a third party – e.g. to cover housing costs

landlord or the energy costs to the utility company – is considered a contribution in kind.

Thus, the complainant's landlord is undoubtedly a person who

provides a benefit in kind for the benefit of a beneficiary,

by giving dem

Complainant was permitted to use an apartment (for a fee), and the

Benefit in kind in the form of a direct payment to this undoubtedly on the

Basis of § 12 Abs. 4 NÖ SAG. Any other improper processing

personal data as the direct payment to the landlord by the

Respondent for the purpose of executing the decision of April 9, 2020 in the sense of the above

determination is not evident.

Contrary to the complainant's argument, according to which services only have priority

but are not to be granted exclusively as benefits in kind are benefits for the

Housing needs according to the requirements of § 12 paragraph 4, second and third sentence, Lower Austria SAG only

then not in the form of benefits in kind - i.e. in the form of direct payment of remuneration

that person who provides a benefit in kind for the benefit of a beneficiary - to

grant if this is uneconomical or inexpedient. on the part of the complainant

however, no claim was made that there was inefficiency or

inappropriateness of direct payment to his landlord would have resulted.

In addition, § 48 NÖ SAG (excerpts) standardizes the following (emphasis added

the data protection authority):

"(1) The state government and the district administrative authorities are as data protection law
Authorized jointly responsible for the purpose of examining the need for assistance
seekers, the granting, refusal, reduction and discontinuation of social assistance benefits and the
Execution of the reimbursement of costs
especially the ones mentioned
to automatically process personal data types together:

the following stakeholders

1. the person seeking help and the person receiving the benefit: identification data, gender,
Civil status, health data, citizenship, immigration status,
nationality
Linguistic proficiency,
Integration obligations, professional qualification measures, criminal convictions,
Basic military service, civil service, address data, accessibility data, accommodation data, data on
social security relationships, data
circumstances
Bank details, family data and performance data,

the economic one

and place of birth

bodily

Parents,

the

to

opposite to

the help

benefit recipient
2nd of
Maintenance debtors and maintenance beneficiaries as well as others in addition to the help seekers
or beneficiary dependents: identification data,
Address data, accessibility data, civil status, data on economic
Circumstances and information about an existing adult representation,

searching

or

3. from employers of the persons named in Z 1 and Z 2: identification data, address data
and availability data,

4. by providers of accommodation or the property management of the persons named in Z 1 and Z 2:
identification data,
and
Bank details.

availability data

accommodation data,

address data,

(2 to 4) […]

(5) The state government and the district administrative authorities may process personal data in
Within the meaning of paragraphs 1 and 2 for the purpose and on the occasion of the granting and billing of services
social assistance to persons and state offices who provide services under this Act,
to transfer."

§ 48 para. 5 NÖ SAG represents an explicit legal basis, personal data

for the purpose and on the occasion of the granting and billing of social assistance benefits

to those persons who provide services according to the NÖ SAG. In which

As already stated, the complainant's landlord is a person

iSd § 12 paragraph 4, last sentence, leg. cit., which (to satisfy the housing requirement) a

Provides a benefit in kind for the benefit of a beneficiary by giving the complainant

the use of an apartment (for a fee) is permitted. Objective was this from

Reason for granting social assistance (i.e. in execution of the relevant decision

dated April 9, 2020) relating to the complainant

information transmitted.

The result was the direct payment of remuneration to the landlord or that was made as a result

Disclosure of the information that the complainant is receiving social assistance, hence by the

Existence of a qualified legal basis lawful, which is why no violation in

there is a right to secrecy.

It was therefore to be decided accordingly.

