

The European Data Protection Board and individual supervisory authorities contributed to the evaluation and review of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions and on the free movement of such information on the repeal of the Council's Framework Decision 2008/977/PUP (LED), which was implemented by the European Commission in accordance with Art. 62 LEDs.
The past four years were primarily marked by national processes for the transposition of the Directive. Due to its recent implementation, there is limited experience and data on certain parts of the LED. Therefore, the EDPB considers that it is premature to draw conclusions about the effectiveness of the LED or to consider its revision.
The EDPB strongly encourages those Member States still in the implementation phase to invest all possible resources to ensure that the transfer is fully compliant with the LED without further delays.
In its contribution, the EDPB reaffirms its commitment to continuing to provide guidance on the interpretation of LEDs. In addition, the EDPB remains committed to providing independent assessments of future draft adequacy decisions, developed by the European Commission, with regard to LED requirements.
The EDPB emphasizes that the effective implementation of tasks under the LED requires the availability of the necessary resources, both human and technical, and calls on Member States to ensure that the resources of supervisory authorities are increased in proportion to their workload.
As part of the implementation of the EDPB 2021-2023 strategy and after the establishment of the group of support experts, the EDPB agreed on the project plan of this group. The group aims to provide material support to EDPB members in the form of expertise useful for investigations and enforcement activities and to enhance cooperation and solidarity between EDPB members by sharing, strengthening and complementing forces and addressing operational needs.
The EDPB adopted the reply to Ujhelyi on the Pegasus spyware hack. In its response, the EDPB points out that the Board and its members pay, and will continue to pay, special attention to current events related to interference with fundamental rights to privacy and data protection through surveillance measures. The EDPB adds that the protection of journalists and their sources is a cornerstone of press freedom. The EDPB has jurisdiction over the alleged use of the Pegasus software mainly if and to the extent that it is deployed for purposes under the GDPR and the LED. The EDPB notes, however, that in accordance with the applicable Union law, it does not have the same competences, tasks and powers as national supervisory authorities, and that the Hungarian National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information is in the specific case responsible for conducting the investigation procedure in connection with the alleged use of espionage. software by the Hungarian authorities. The EDPB remains ready to support all EDPB members in such matters.
Following a public consultation, the EDPB adopted the final version of the Guidelines on examples of data breach notifications. These guidelines complement the Article 29 Working Group guidelines on data breach notification by introducing more practice-oriented guidelines and recommendations.
