 

Judgment of the European Court of Justice
Transfer of personal data to
Third countries ("Schrems II") strengthens the data
protection for EU citizens

Press Release – Page 1/3
Munich, July 29, 2020

The European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled on July 16
2020 (Case C-311/18) Decision 2016/1250 of the European
ische Commission for the transfer of personal data to the
USA (Privacy Shield) declared ineffective. At the same time, the ECJ
found that Commission Decision 2010/87/EC on
Standard Contractual Clauses (SCC)
basically still valid.

The Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
Federal and the federal states (DSK) sees with this judgment the data protection
fundamental rights of citizens in the European Union
(EU) strengthened. For the transmission of personal data in the
United States and other third countries passed the verdict after a first
Assessment of the DSK the following effects:

1. The transfer of personal data to the USA on the

basis of the Privacy Shield is prohibited and must
be adjusted promptly. The ECJ has the Privacy Shield for
declared invalid because the US law evaluated by the ECJ
does not offer a level of protection essentially equivalent to that in the EU
is equivalent. The US law to which the ECJ referred
has taken affects, for example, the intelligence
Section 702 FISA and Executive powers of collection
Order 12 333.

2. For a transfer of personal data to the USA
and other third countries can use the existing standard
Although the European Commission's contractual clauses
can continue to be used. However, the ECJ emphasized the
Response of the person responsible and the recipient to
evaluate whether the rights of data subjects in the third country
enjoy an equivalent level of protection as in the Union.

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 07/29/2020 – page 2/3
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

Only then can it be decided whether the guarantees from the
standard contractual clauses are implemented in practice
can. If this is not the case, it should be checked
what additional measures to ensure a dem
Level of protection essentially equivalent in the EU
protection levels can be taken. The right of
However, third countries may use these additional protective measures
not affect in a way that their actual
effect thwarted. According to the judgment of the ECJ
standard contractual clauses for data transfers to the USA
basically not possible without additional measures.

3. The assessments of the judgment also apply to other guarantees
according to Article 46 GDPR application as binding internal
data protection regulations ("binding corporate rules" - BCR), on
based on the transmission of personal data
to the USA and other third countries. Therefore also have to
for data transfers based on BCR
measures to be agreed, provided that the rights of the
affected persons in the third country does not have an equivalent one
Enjoy the same level of protection as in the Union. This measure also
ment must be essentially for the data transmitted
guarantee the same level of data protection as in the EU
can.

4. The transfer of personal data from the EU in

the USA and other third countries according to Article 49 GDPR
continue to be permitted, provided that the conditions of Article 49
DSGVO are fulfilled in individual cases. For application and
compliance with this provision, the European data protection
committee published guidelines.

5. Controllers who continue to process personal data in the

USA or other third countries
immediately check whether they are among those mentioned
conditions can do. The ECJ has no transitional
or grace period granted.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 07/29/2020 – page 3/3
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
Even if the ECJ in its decision at different points
the primary responsibility of the transmitter of personal
ned data and the recipient, he also has the supervisory
authorities play a key role in enforcing data protection
Basic Regulation and other decisions on
Assigned data transfers to third countries. The Germans
Regulatory authorities will act in accordance with their
Colleagues in the European Data Protection Board
and in the future also on more specific questions
advise.

After the judgment of the ECJ, the European data protection
shot after an initial statement at its July 23 meeting
2020 key questions and answers (FAQ) on the implementation of the judgment
published. The DSK endorses the positioning of the European
Austrian Data Protection Committee. The English text of the FAQ is up
the website of the European Data Protection Board
https://edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2020/europeandata-protection-
board-publishes-faq-document-cjeu-judgment-c-31118-schrems_de
find.

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

