1/23

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00361/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 05/29/2018, a claim was received from Ms. A.A.A. in which
states that he filed an application for an opposition of the Higher Body of
Technicians in Penitentiary Institutions (BOE X/XX/2018) and in the publication of the BOE
of YY/YY/2018 there is a list that includes name and surname, DNI and the age at
through the date of birth.

 He adds that, in the GOOGLE search engine, typing his name brings up the referral

to your data in the BOE of said call.
   
Submit a copy of:

-Instance of registration for the convocation of the Higher Body of Technicians of
Penitentiary Institutions, free shift, date of call of the BOE X/XX/2018.

-Photograph of a mobile phone showing a message from 05/22/2018, from
removals@google.com informing them that their request will be processed.

SECOND: On 06/26/2018, a letter was sent to the Protection Delegate of
Data to detail

1. Clear specification of the causes that have motivated the incidence that has

gave rise to the claim.

2. Detail of the measures adopted by the person in charge to solve the
incident and to prevent new incidents from occurring such as the
exposed.

3. Documentation proving that, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 12 of the RGPD, the appropriate measures have been taken to facilitate the
affected the exercise of their rights under articles 15 to 22,
including a full copy of the communications sent in response to
the requests made.

4. Documentation proving that the right of the
claimant to be informed about the course and outcome of this
claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

The claimant was informed of the referral of the request for information on

06/27/2018.

THIRD: On 07/02/2018, the respondent indicates that it has only been transferred to the
Secretary General of Penitentiary Institutions and GOOGLE has not been required
and requests that it be removed from the search engine pages.

FOURTH: Dated 08/08/2018, a letter from the Protection Delegate has been received
of Data of the Secretary General of Penitentiary Institutions that indicates that after
receipt of the claimant's brief, a copy was sent to the Subdirectorate General for
Penitentiary Human Resources as the main person responsible for the treatment of the
data, and that the age data will be excluded as it is not relevant for said lists.

Accompanying your letter is another from the aforementioned Subdirectorate, indicating that the data of
date of birth is extracted from the request for participation in the processes
selective, and the information is channeled through the database enabled to such
effect with which the provisional and definitive lists that
they are subsequently made public.

“The date of birth is taken into account to verify compliance with
the requirement demanded for access to the public function, however, is a fact that does not
brings added value in the listings, therefore, accordingly, the measure
adopted to avoid this situation consists in carrying out a modification of the
personal database of the applicants who participate in the processes
elections that are convened”.

FIFTH: On 11/20/2018, the GOOGLE search engine is accessed and typing the
name and surname of the claimant, there is a reference to BOE.es, from YY/YY/2018. I know
click and you get the resolution of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Interior for the
that the provisional list of admitted and excluded is published and the date is announced,
time and place of celebration of the first exercise of the selective process convened by the
Undersecretary herself, by resolution of 03/22/2018.

In the resolution, the data of the claimant is contained in annex II "list
provisional of excluded jurists” where surnames and name appear, DNI without letter, date
of birth, language, and numerical code of exclusions. As grounds for exclusion
the claimant appears "lack of language to carry out the third exercise"

In another list appears "Disability reserve" and handicap with a figure
which could be the percentage of the recognized. Other causes listed are
“higher income in the monthly calculation of the minimum interprofessional salary” or “lack
job application certification.

SIXTH: The Resolution of 03/22/2018, of the Undersecretariat, by which the
selective process for entry, by the general system of free access in the Corps
Superior of Technicians of Penitentiary Institutions, specialty of Jurists and
Psychologists., BOE X/XX/2018 indicates that the "common bases by which the
this call are those established in Order HFP/ 688/2017, of 07/20
("Official State Gazette" of 07/22)

3/23

The specific base 8.2 of the resolution of 03/22/2018 indicates that: "Expired on
deadline for submitting applications, a resolution will be issued within a maximum period of one
month, declaring approved the list of admitted and excluded. In said Resolution, which
will be published in the "Official State Gazette", the list of applicants will be indicated
excluded, the places where the lists are exposed to the public
lists of applicants admitted and excluded, as well as the place, date and time of
beginning of the first exercise.”

From the payment of fees are exempted, among others, people with a degree
of disability equal to or greater than 33 percent, the people who appear as
jobseekers for at least one month prior to the date of the
call, large families and victims of terrorism.

On the other hand, Order HFP/688/2017, of 07/20, which establishes the
common bases that will govern the selective processes for entry or access in
bodies or scales of the General State Administration indicates that its purpose is the
“Establishment of the common bases that will govern the selective processes for the
income or access as a career official in the Bodies and Scales of the
General State Administration, without prejudice to the specific bases that
determine each call, which in its case will include the peculiarities regarding
these common bases

Said order indicates: “Fourth. Publicity of calls and
monitoring of selection processes. Calls for selective processes
will be published, in addition to the «BOE», on the web page corresponding to the
convening body and that is indicated in the specific bases, as well as in Point
of General Access administracion.gob.es. The calls of the processes
selective for access by internal promotion will also be published on the Portal
Works. The convening body will send to the mailbox Empleopublico@correo.gob.es
information on the development of the selective processes as they are
advancing them, in order to allow a follow-up of their execution.”

In the twelfth base it is indicated:

"two. The option to these reserved places will have to be formulated in the request for
participation in calls. Those who request to participate for the reserve quota of
Persons with disabilities, whether general or intellectual, may only
apply for this quota. Violation of this rule will determine the exclusion
of the aspirant who had not observed it.”

At no point in the common or specific bases is it made
reference to the information of the data that is collected, nor specification of the data of
the handicap, its use or as it is understood granted the express consent and in
What phases of treatment?

SEVENTH: On 12/11/2018, an initiation agreement was issued with the literal:

"1. START SANCTION PROCEDURE against the GENERAL SECRETARY
OF PENITENTIARY INSTITUTIONS, (MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR) by the
alleged infringement of article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, and of article 9.1 of the RGPD, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 58 section 2 b) of the RGPD….

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

-THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10 LPACAP and
article 58.2 letter b) RGPD, the sanction that could correspond would be
WARNING, without prejudice to what results from the investigation.”

- REQUEST the claimed party to certify before this body the
compliance with the following measures:

-Urge the BOE so that the data sent and that appear in it do not

can be indexed by search engines such as GOOGLE in this case.

-Adapt the data processing in the phases of the selective processes of

in accordance with the principles indicated in the RGPD.

EIGHTH: On 12/26/2018, a written document of the claim is registered in which it indicates:

a) The procedure that has now been opened results in an incident
occurred prior to the entry into force of LO 3/2018 of 5/12. A
Despite this, an attempt has been made to correct the incident. As communicated
by the Data Protection Officer.

b) Some elements are published, such as the date, which is a requirement that
used to verify that one of the access requirements to the
public function. It was agreed that the publication of the date of birth data
It is not relevant to make it appear in the lists that are published in the
listings that they send to the BOE, the databases that are
used to make the lists.

c) On 12/10/2018 the BOE informed your entity that in accordance with the da
seventh of LO 3/2018, a series of measures will be adopted that will
influence the notification procedure that will be published in the BOE of
so that the complete DNI with the name and surnames would not be published together.

d) On the exposure of health data for the purposes of the call,
consider that it is covered by the joint reading of article 9.3 of the
Article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of natural persons in the
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these
data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation of
data protection RGPD) and Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the protection of
personal data and guarantee of digital rights, BOE 6/12/2018.

NINTH: On 04/23/2019, the testing period opens:

5/23

It is AGREED to carry out the following tests:

1.

two.

     The filed claim and its
documentation, documents obtained and generated.

       Likewise, it is considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the
initiation agreement PS/00361/2018 presented by the respondent and the documentation
that accompanies them.

3. GOOGLE is accessed, BOE of 06/21/2016 and the Resolution of
06/16/2016, of the Secretary of State for Public Administrations, by which
approves the model application form for admission to selective tests in the
General Administration of the State and liquidation of the rate of examination fees.
It appears among other aspects that "In compliance with Organic Law 15/1999, of
December 13, Protection of Personal Data, we inform you that
your personal data will be incorporated into a file whose owner will be the center
manager of the selection and appointment process, being able to exercise the rights of
access, rectification, cancellation and opposition in the management center that appears in the
announcement." There is also the clause "CONSENT that the managing center of the
selection and appointment process access the databases of the
Administrations, with a guarantee of confidentiality and for the exclusive purposes of
facilitate the verification of personal identification data, qualifications and condition
job seeker consigned in this instance. Additionally, it
will consult the condition of disability and large family if these conditions
have been accredited in any of the Autonomous Communities that appear in the
address http://administracion.gob.es/PAG/PID (If you do not consent, mark the
box and must, in this case, provide supporting documentation, all in
the terms and deadlines provided in the bases of the call and other regulations
valid)."

In another section, the applicant's signature appears.

4. GOOGLE is accessed and with the name and surname of the claimant, a

search figuring your data in relation to the BOE.

In the first, the title:

-BOE.es - Document BOE-A-2018-QQQQ

https://www.boe.es › BOE › Calendar › YY/YY/2018

ZZ/ZZ. 2018 - A.A.A.. ***NIF.1. 12/15/1961. 0. 16. 15. 100. B.B.B.. ***NIF.2.

12/30/1983. English. 0.

Pressing, the https://www.boe.es/diario_boe/txt.php?id=BOE-A-2018- appears.
QQQQ which is the Resolution of ZZ/ZZ/2018, BOE XX/XX of the Undersecretariat,
by which the list of admitted and excluded is approved and the date is announced,
time and place of celebration of the selective process for entry, by the system
general free access, in the Technicians of Penitentiary Institutions,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

specialties of Jurists and Psychologists, summoned by Resolution of
03/22/2018 and that contains the data object of this procedure.

-The second,
PDF-Provision QQQQ of BOE no. 2018 PPP - BOE.es

https://boe.es/boe/dias/20XX/XX/18/pdfs/BOE-A-2018-QQQQ.pdf

XX/XX. 2018 - A.A.A.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ***NIF.1 12/15/ ... C.C.C. . ... D.D.D.

By clicking on it, you access https://boe.es/boe/dias/20XX/XX/18/pdfs/BOE-

A-2018-QQQQ.pdf, containing the same resolution, in PDF

5 In addition, within a period of ten days, the claimed party will have to provide or report

of:

a) In relation to the data obtained in the claimant's GOOGLE search engine,
entering your name and surnames that lead directly to the publication of the
provision of the BOE in which your personal data appears, you are requested to
report of the mechanisms used to avoid the indexation of the data of the
claimant in the search engines, taking into account the information on the files
robots.txt operating on GOOGLE.

b) The respondent is requested to submit a request to participate in the process

selective object of the claim, whether electronic or on paper.

c) The respondent is requested to inform the reason, convenience, or legal provision
that may cover the publication in the Official State Gazette of a list
of provisionally excluded in the selection process, in order to remedy,
especially if it contains health data such as disability. Additionally,
if not, the scope of the affectation of the publication could be restricted exclusively
interested parties through an electronic platform, since the transparency of the
process affects only applicants.

d) Since the degree or percentage of disability is a health data, they must
inform about how the express consent of the participants is obtained in the
applications for participation in the selection processes, what information is derived from
that collection and if they consider necessary the exhibition in the BOE or web with accesses
to third parties of the disability data or alternatives, in the excluded phase
provisional and in other phases.

e) Inform if the selection process object of the complaint has ended, its date.

7/23

The petition by the defendant was not granted.

6 The OFFICIAL STATE GAZETTE AGENCY is hereby informed that the
claimant, entering A.A.A. in GOOGLE check that your data appears
related to a provision published in the BOE on XX/XX/2019. Specific:

FIRST RESULT:

-BOE.es - Document BOE-A-2018-QQQQ

https://www.boe.es › BOE › Calendar › YY/YY/2018

ZZ/ZZ. 2018 - A.A.A.. ***NIF.1. 12/15/1961. 0. 16. 15. 100. B.B.B.. ***NIF.2.
12/30/1983. English. 0.

Pressing, the https://www.boe.es/diario_boe/txt.php?id=BOE-A-2018-QQQQ appears, which
is the Resolution of ZZ/ZZ/2018, BOE XX/XX of the Undersecretary, by which
approves the list of admitted and excluded and announces date, time and place of
celebration of the selective process for entry, by the general system of free access,
in the Technicians of Penitentiary Institutions, specialties of Jurists and
Psychologists, convened by Resolution of 03/22/2018 and containing the subject data
of this procedure

- SECOND RESULT:
-PDF-Provision QQQQ of BOE no. 2018 PPP - BOE.es

https://boe.es/boe/dias/20XX/XX/18/pdfs/BOE-A-2018-QQQQ.pdf

XX/XX. 2018 - A.A.A.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ***NIF.1 12/15/ ... C.C.C. . ... D.D.D.

By clicking on it, you access https://boe.es/boe/dias/20XX/XX/18/pdfs/BOE-

A-2018-QQQQ.pdf, containing the same resolution, in PDF.

Regarding these indexations, you are requested to:

6.1-Who is the original responsible that gives rise to or enables said data to be

can be indexed by search engines?

On 05/23/2019, a letter was received in which, after mentioning Law 39/215
and Royal Decree 364/1995 finds a legitimate basis to publish in the BOE the
claimant information.

It adds that article 14.4 of Royal Decree 181/2018 establishes that the AEBOE
will adopt measures aimed at avoiding the automatic indexing and recovery of
verification codes from notification ads.

6.2-How is it definitively solved that such indexing is possible?

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

They indicate that in compliance with article 11 of Royal Decree 181/2018,” the dissemination
of the BOE on the Internet is carried out universally, except as provided in relation to
with the notification supplement. Consequently, the rest of the contents
of the BOE can be captured by Internet search engines and in general by
reusers of public information”. “However, the AEBOE does not include any
type instruction/invitation code intended for internet search engines to
that these index the content of the official newspaper of the State or maintain any type
of relationship or agreement with the aforementioned search engines”

6.3- What own mechanisms have been implemented as responsible for the
platform to prevent access to the Official Gazette from occurring directly through
through search engines?

States that in compliance with article 14.4 of Royal Decree 181/2008, which provides
that the AEBOE adopt measures aimed at avoiding the indexation and recovery
automatic notification ads verification codes, the AEBOE
uses the robots protocol. txt to the entire content of the notification supplement of the
BOE. In accordance with the explanatory statement of RD 385/2015 of 05/22, the modulation
of the possibilities of access to the notifications supplement is a consequence of the
peculiarity of its content: the notification ads come to replace a
personal notification, acting as a guarantee mechanism for interested parties
specific, so they do not require the same degree of publicity as the provisions
and administrative acts that are published in the rest of the sections of the newspaper.
In addition, to the supplement of notifications, the AEBOE applies the aforementioned protocol to
specific documents, at the request of the interested parties, in compliance with the doctrine
established by the AEPD. “The AEPD in various resolutions has considered that the
citizen cannot oppose the maintenance of their personal data in
the BO, as it is perfectly legitimate because it is protected by the law that
orders the publication of the acts and provisions but that the citizen can
oppose in cases where there is a legitimate and well-founded reason for your data to be
personal data are subject to treatment consisting of allowing the indexing of their
data published in the official gazette, preventing its possible capture by the
Internet browser".

The AEBOE applies the robots protocol. txt to the requests to exercise the right
to the protection of personal data that it receives and in which the
stated reasons.

In the case of the claimant, they “have not received any request in relation to the
resolution of ZZ/ZZ/2018. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agency remains at the disposal
of what the AEPD can resolve in the procedure.”

TENTH: Dated 05/27/2019. is incorporated into the procedure because it is related
with its object, the resulting access through the web, of the BOE of 06/4/2018, on
the resolution of the Undersecretariat, approving the final list of
excluded, from the selective process for entry, by the general system of free access,
in the Higher Corps of Technicians of Penitentiary Institutions, specialties of
Jurists and Psychologists, summoned by Resolution of 03/22/2018. If you compare the
provisional and final lists, all excluded, it can be seen that in the first

9/23

there were 25 in legal specialties, in the final only 12, and there were also
substantially reduces the number of excluded in the specialty of psychology,
observing that also in this it is reduced in a person who has remedied in
disability shift and does not appear on the final list of excluded, then meets the
requirement, which was number 12 with which it appeared on the provisional list: Missing
justification disability and / or without certifying.

ELEVENTH: On 05/29/2019, a resolution proposal of the
literal:

1- That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
sanction the GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF PENITENTIARY INSTITUTIONS, with
NIF S2813060G, for an infringement of Article 9.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the RGPD, a warning fine.

2- That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
sanction the GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF PENITENTIARY INSTITUTIONS, with
NIF S2813060G, for an infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning fine.

3   -

 REQUIRE

INSTITUTIONS
PENITENTIARY to certify to this body compliance with the
following measures:

 GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF

a

-Urge the BOE so that the data sent and that appear in it do not

can be indexed by search engines such as GOOGLE in this case.

-Adapt the data processing in the phases of the selective processes of

in accordance with the principles indicated in the RGPD.

4- In accordance with the provisions of article 77.4 and 5 of the LOPDDG:
"4. The resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.”

Against it, allegations are received on 06/14/2019 in which it indicates that
At the time the events take place, the provisions had not been fully implemented.
GDPR principles, it was intended to make the process more transparent. They have
modified the way in which the data has been published successively. attach
copy of the letter of 06/13/2019 addressed to the AEBOE in order to deindex the
search engines, the content of the results of the query with the data of at
claimant take directly to the BOE in which said data appears

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

PROVEN FACTS

The claimant submitted her application for the call to the selective process of the

1)
Superior Corps of Technicians in Penitentiary Institutions (BOE X/XX/2018).

two)
The call for access to the Higher Corps of Technicians in Institutions
Prisons (BOE X/XX/2018) provides for the publication of personal data in
the base specifies 8.2 that: "Once the deadline for submitting applications has expired,
will issue a resolution, within a maximum period of one month, declaring approved the list of
admitted and excluded. In said Resolution, which will be published in the «Official Gazette of the
State", the list of excluded applicants will be indicated, the places where they are
The complete lists of admitted applicants and
excluded, as well as the place, date and time of beginning of the first exercise.

In the BOE of YY/YY/2018, the Resolution of ZZ/ZZ/2018 is published,
3)
of the Undersecretariat, of the Ministry of the Interior approving the list
provisional, in this case excluded and the date, time and place of celebration is announced
of the first exercise of the selective process for entry, by the general system of
free access, in the Higher Corps of Technicians of Penitentiary Institutions,
specialties of Jurists and Psychologists, summoned by Resolution of 03/22/2018,
solving:

second

”Publishing the provisional list of those excluded from the reference selective process,
that appears as annexes III and IV of this Resolution, with an expression of the causes of
exclusion (Annex V). In annex II Provisional list of excluded. consist of
data of first surname, second name and name, DNI without the letter, date of birth,
language that can be English, Italian and exclusion code that can be 2, 4, 5,
7, 9, 10, 15, 16. In another listing with the same content entitled “reservation
disability” appear in the disability column the numbers 33, 36,38, 47, 65 and
in exclusions the numbers 12 or 16. The same types of data appear in the other
specialty of psychology in Annex IV.”

third

“All the excluded opponents, as well as those omitted for not appearing in the
published provisional list have a period of ten business days, counted from
from the day following the publication of this Resolution in the "Official Gazette of the
State”, to correct the defects that have motivated its exclusion or omission.
The applicants who within the indicated term do not correct the error or omission,
justifying their right to be included in the list of admitted, will be
definitively excluded from carrying out the selective tests. Completed on
period indicated, the final list of admitted applicants will be made public, which will be
will exhibit in the same Centers that are indicated in the second section of this
Resolution.

11/23

By means of the keys contained in annex IV, it is possible to know the causes of
exclusion that the petitioners requested and are understood not to have been fulfilled, among which
would relate the petitioner to the alleged cause, by way of example:

3. Missing employment demand certificate, or incomplete certificate.

5. There is no certificate of not having rejected suitable employment offers, nor that
has refused to participate in promotion, training or reconversion actions
professionals.

7. Lack of seniority required in INEM.

10. Large family and/or unverified family justification missing.

11Expired large family title.

12. Lack of disability justification and/or without certifying.

14. Lack of accreditation as a victim of terrorism and/or unverified document.

15. Income higher in monthly computation than the Minimum Interprofessional Salary.

16. Lack of language to carry out the third exercise.

As for the figure that appears in the handicap column that goes or starts from

33 with cases of 47 or 65 denotes the degree of disability.

In addition, if the call is monitored, it could be consulted in the
the same way the list of final admitted, being able to find out which person of the
listing has corrected (either by providing the certificate or otherwise, and it is therefore
really a handicapped of the degree that is expressed). In the same sense, it
contain data on the degree of disability to which what remains to be corrected by
example is the language, number 16, appearing in the list of handicaps with the grade,
with which their health information is known. (This is how at least two applicants appear).
Likewise, the websites of the convening centers have complete information
of the process, with all phases and all accesses open to the public in
general, with which it is possible to carry out a follow-up even of a certain
person and their data, and if the query is configured through the DNI, this is already
known.

In the specific bases it appears that they are exempt from the payment of fees
among others, people with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 33 percent
percent, people who appear as job seekers for at least one
month before the date of the call, large families and victims of
terrorism.

4)
On 11/20/2018, it was verified in the GOOGLE search engine that typing the
name and surname of the claimant, there is a reference to BOE.es, of YY/YY/2018,
containing the resolution of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Interior by which
The provisional list of those admitted and excluded is published and the date, time and
place of celebration of the first exercise of the selective process summoned by the own
Undersecretary, by resolution of 03/22/2018. Despite requiring in the start-up agreement

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

the claimant to urge the BOE so that the data sent and that appear in it
cannot be indexed by search engines such as GOOGLE in this case,
no response received.

5)
Order HFP/688/2017, of 07/20, which establishes the bases
that will govern the selective processes for admission or access to bodies or
scales of the General Administration of the State indicates: “Fourth. Advertising of the
Calls and monitoring of selection processes. The calls for
selective processes will be published, in addition to the «BOE», on the website
corresponding to the convening body and that is indicated in the specific bases, as well
as in the General Access Point administracion.gob.es. The calls of the
selective processes for access by internal promotion will also be published in the
Portal
  mailbox
employmentpublico@correo.gob.es information on the development of processes
selective as they progress, in order to allow a
follow-up of its execution.

  convening body

will forward to

  Works.

  The

In the twelfth base on reservation for the disabled, it is indicated:

"two. The option to these reserved places will have to be formulated in the request for
participation in calls. Those who request to participate for the reserve quota of
Persons with disabilities, whether general or intellectual, may only
apply for this quota. Violation of this rule will determine the exclusion
of the aspirant who had not observed it.”

At no point in the common or specific bases is it made
reference to the type of data contained in the excluded lists, or the
additional information associated with these data, nor necessary specification about the
publication in lists of excluded or admitted of the special data of the
disability of the petitioners that are going to carry out, treatment and its use, nor
How the express consent is understood to be granted and in what phases of the treatment.

As highlighted, from the Resolution of 03/22/2018, of the Undersecretary for the

6)
that the selective tests were convened, it was indicated:

Specific basis 1

Of the total number of places called for free access, 2 places will be reserved, of which
which 1 place in the specialty of Jurist and 1 place in the specialty of
Psychologists, for those who have the legal status of persons with disabilities with
a degree of disability equal to or greater than 33%. In the event that any of
applicants with disabilities who had applied for the reserve quota
overcome the exercises and did not obtain a place in the aforementioned quota, being his score
superior to that obtained by other applicants of the general access system, this will be
listed by their scoring order in the general access system.

6.1 Applications must be completed using the official application form 790, at
which will be accessed, in general, through the website
www.administracion.gob.es or the electronic records for processing the
inscriptions of the candidates in the selective processes that are established. 6.2 The
Applications will preferably be submitted electronically. The presentation of the

13/23

application by electronic means will be made using the service Enrollment in
Selective Testing Processes of the
  (http://
administracion.gob.es/PAG/ips), following the instructions indicated, being
It is necessary to identify yourself through the identification and electronic signature platform
cl@ve, in any of its modalities.

  main access point

6.2 Applications will preferably be submitted electronically.

 

 

 

 

 

the

in

that

figure

  Autonomous

6.6 The following shall be exempt from payment of the exam rights fee: a) Persons
with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 33 percent, and must accompany
the application certificate accrediting such condition. It will not be necessary to submit this
certified when the disability condition has been recognized in any of the
Communities
address
http://administracion.gob.es/PAG/PID. In this case, and prior agreement of the
concerned, the managing body may verify this condition by accessing the
Public Administration Data Intermediation Platform offered to
through the service Enrollment in Selective Tests. b) The people who appear
as jobseekers for at least one month before the date of the
announcement. They will be requirements for the enjoyment of the exemption that, in the term that
in question, had not refused an offer of suitable employment or refused to
participate, except for just cause, in promotion, training or
professional reconversion and who, likewise, lack higher incomes, in computation
monthly, to the Minimum Interprofessional Salary. These extremes must be verified, in
in any case and unless there is express opposition from the interested party, by the managing body
through access to the Data Intermediation Platform of the
Public Administrations offered through the Test Registration service
Selective. In case of not giving consent, the certification regarding the condition
of job seeker, with the indicated requirements, it will be requested in the office of
public employment services. Regarding the accreditation of income,
will be carried out by means of a certificate of the filed declaration of the Tax on the
Income of Individuals, corresponding to the last financial year and, where appropriate, of the
certificate of income level. c) Large families under the terms of article
12.1.c) of Law 40/2003, of November 18, on the Protection of Families
numerous. Members will be entitled to a 100% exemption from the fee.
of families in the special category and a bonus of 50% for those who were
of the general category. The status of a large family will be accredited through the
corresponding updated title. The contribution of the large family title will not be
necessary when the same has been obtained in any of the Communities
Autonomous that appear at the address http://administracion.gob.es/PAG/PID. In this
case, and unless there is express opposition from the interested party, the managing body may
verify this condition by accessing the Intermediation Platform of
Data from Public Administrations. d) Victims of terrorism, understanding
as such, people who have suffered physical or psychological damage such as
as a consequence of the terrorist activity and thus accredit it by means of a judicial sentence
firm or by virtue of an administrative resolution that recognizes such condition, its
spouse or person who has lived with a similar emotional relationship, the
spouse of the deceased and children of the injured and deceased.

If any applicant that appears on the list of provisionally excluded
corrected and did not appear in the final list of excluded, having been admitted,
with the established system of including name and surnames and DNI could also,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

know which person it is by comparing the lists that can also be
check on platforms such as the general access point administracion.gob.es.
or on the website of the convening center.

7)
In the call resolution of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Interior
The person responsible for data processing is not identified, it is only specified that “In all
case, the request will be addressed to the General Secretariat of Penitentiary Institutions”. In
standardized forms approved to submit applications and payment of fees in
selective process includes the literal "In compliance with Organic Law 15/1999, of
13/12, Protection of Personal Data, we inform you that your data
will be incorporated into a file whose owner will be the management center of the
selection and appointment process, being able to exercise the rights of access,
rectification, cancellation and opposition in the management center that appears in the
announcement." According to the statements of the respondent, the database
that manages the process is located the General Subdirectorate of Human Resources
Penitentiaries.

8)
In the GOOGLE search engine, as of the test practice date 04/23/2019,
Entering the name and surname data of the claimant, it is verified that in the
two first results that are produced, is indexed to the BOE of 06/18/2018 in the
that the data of the claimant appears as provisionally excluded, her full name and
DNI, date of birth, that you have submitted your application to the body of
penitentiary institutions legal specialty and the reason for exclusion, for not
select the language.

The section in which the data of the claimant is published in the BOE

9)
en Authorities and personnel, Oppositions and contests.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (hereinafter GDPR); recognizes each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of Organic Law 3/2018, of
5/12, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in what
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

As a reference framework for the use of data, Law 39/2015, of 1/10 of the

Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations indicates:

article 13:

“Those who, in accordance with article 3, have the capacity to act before the
Public Administrations, are holders, in their relations with them, of the following

15/23

Rights:

h) To the protection of personal data, and in particular to the security and
confidentiality of the data contained in the files, systems and applications of
Public Administrations.”

At the time of the events, article 28 of the same Law indicated:

Documents provided by the interested parties to the administrative procedure

3. The Administrations will not require the interested parties to present
original documents, except that, exceptionally, the regulatory regulations
applicable state otherwise.

Likewise, the Public Administrations will not require data or
documents not required by the applicable regulatory regulations or that have been
previously provided by the interested party to any Administration. To these effects,
the interested party must indicate at what time and before which administrative body
presented the aforementioned documents, and the Public Administrations must collect them
electronically through their corporate networks or by consulting the
data intermediation platforms or other electronic systems enabled by
effect. It will be presumed that this consultation is authorized by the interested parties, unless
your express opposition is recorded in the procedure or the applicable special law requires
express consent, and must, in both cases, be previously informed of
your rights regarding the protection of personal data.
Exceptionally, if the Public Administrations could not collect the aforementioned
documents, they may ask the interested party again for their contribution.”

article 40.5 Notification:
5.
“Public Administrations may adopt the measures they consider
necessary for the protection of personal data contained in the
resolutions and administrative acts, when these are addressed to more than
an interested party.”

Article 46 of the LPCAP adds a common denominator applicable to both

notifications as well as publications, of the following tenor:

“If the competent body appreciates that the notification by means of announcements or
the publication of an act harms rights or legitimate interests, it will be limited to publishing
in the corresponding Official Gazette a brief indication of the content of the act and of the
place where the interested parties may appear, within the period established, to
knowledge of the full content of the aforementioned act and proof of such
knowledge."

III

In accordance with the principles of proportionality and necessity, it is considered that
the claimed has violated the principle of data minimization that is contained in the
article 5.1.c) of the RGPD with the tenor:

"1. The personal data will be:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for those who are treated”

The content is related to article 25 entitled “Data protection

from design and by default” indicating that

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of the application and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as the risks of various
probability and seriousness that the treatment entails for the rights and freedoms of
natural persons, the data controller will apply, both at the time of
determine the means of treatment as at the time of the treatment itself,
appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymisation, designed
to effectively apply the principles of data protection, such as the
minimization of data, and integrate the necessary guarantees in the treatment, in order to
comply with the requirements of this Regulation and protect the rights of
interested.

2. The data controller will apply the technical and organizational measures
with a view to guaranteeing that, by default, they are only processed
the personal data that is necessary for each of the specific purposes of the
treatment. This obligation will apply to the amount of personal data collected, to
the extension of its treatment, its conservation period and its accessibility. Such
measures shall in particular ensure that, by default, personal data is not
accessible, without the intervention of the person, to an indeterminate number of people
physical.”

In principle, the provisional list of those excluded must not appear published in
the BOE, but refers to the fact that "Once the deadline for submitting applications has expired,
will issue a resolution, within a maximum period of one month, declaring approved the list of
admitted and excluded” A provisional list is not the definitive list, on the provisional
corrections and corrections can be made.

Likewise, the public call would affect the participants in the process.
Just as the call does not indicate in detail how the
publication, access to such data should be limited to participants in the
process, so that only the participants in it could view the data,
since only the participants in the process are considered interested, or which is not
happens in this process

Next, the data that is exposed does not have to be so detailed that
bivalently identify the participants, in this case they were identified not
only with the name and surnames but with the NIF.

Next, the exposed data is exceeded when the date of
birth, element that is not necessary and outlines another additional data along with the
nif and the name and surnames.

The fact that the provisional list of those admitted to
any person, and in this case in the BOE it supposes an excessive sending of data that
will be able to be seen by anyone (limitation to those affected), but the same is
You can tell from the definitive admissions lists.

IV

17/23

The data minimization design has been embodied in the LOPDGDD, which in
its “Seventh additional provision: on Identification of the interested parties in the
notifications through announcements and publications of administrative acts” indicates:

1. When it is necessary to publish an administrative act that contains
personal data of the affected party, it will be identified by its name and
surnames, adding four random numerical figures of the national document of
identity, foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document.
When the publication refers to a plurality of affected these random figures
they should alternate.

When it comes to notification through advertisements, particularly in the
assumptions referred to in article 44 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, will be identified
to the affected party exclusively by means of the complete number of his national document
identity card, foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document.
When the affected party lacks any of the documents mentioned in the
two preceding paragraphs, the affected party will be identified only by name and
surnames. In no case should the name and surnames be published together
with the complete number of the national identity document, identity number of
foreigner, passport or equivalent document.

2. In order to prevent risks for victims of gender violence, the Government
will promote the development of a collaboration protocol that defines procedures
insurance of publication and notification of administrative acts, with the participation of
the bodies with competence in the matter.”

The provision has been the subject of a provisional recommendation until
the moment in which the governing bodies and public administrations
authorities approve provisions for the application of the aforementioned Provision
Additional seventh. So objective is to try to prevent the adoption of different formulas
in application of the aforementioned provision may give rise to the publication of figures
numerical identification documents in different positions in each case,
allowing the complete recomposition of said documents.

For your interest, the aforementioned recommendation of 03/04/2019 is transcribed, entitled:
“GUIDANCE FOR THE PROVISIONAL APPLICATION OF THE PROVISION
ADDITIONAL SEVENTH OF THE LOPDGDD”

“In the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the Catalan Authority for
Data Protection, the Basque Data Protection Agency and the Council of
Transparency and Data Protection of Andalusia, multiple queries have been received
on the application of the provisions of the first paragraph of the first section of the
Seventh additional provision “Identification of the interested parties in the notifications
through advertisements and publications of administrative acts” of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights.

This circumstance has advised that, in order to facilitate a practical criterion,
said authorities propose guidance for the provisional application of
guarantees of protection of the disclosure of the national identity document,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document of the
interested.

To do this, they have randomly selected the group of four numerical figures
to be published for the identification of those interested in the publications of
administrative acts. The procedure for the random determination of the
four numerical figures to be published of the identification code of an interested party
performed through the process of random selection in an opaque bag of a ball of
between five balls numbered from 1 to 5, held on 02/27/2019 at the AEPD.

The resulting ball was number 4, therefore:

The publication of national identity document, identity number of

foreigner, passport or equivalent document may be made in the following way:

• Given a DNI with format 12345678X, the digits will be published in the format
occupy the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh positions. In the example: ***4567**.

• Given a NIE with format L1234567X, the digits will be published in the format
occupy the positions, avoiding the first alphabetic character, fourth, fifth, sixth and
seventh. In the example: ****4567*.

• Given a passport with format ABC123456, having only six figures, will be published
the digits that occupy the positions in the format, avoiding the three characters
alphabetical, third, fourth, fifth and sixth. In the example: *****3456.

• Given another type of identification, as long as that identification contains at least
7 numeric digits, these digits will be numbered from left to right, avoiding
all alphabetic characters, and the procedure of publishing those
numeric characters that occupy the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh positions.

For example, in the case of an ID like XY12345678AB, the post

would be: *****4567***.
• If that type of identification is different from a passport and has less than 7 digits
numeric, all characters, including alphabets, will be numbered with the same number.
previous procedure and those who occupy the last four will be selected.
positions. For example, in the case of an ID such as ABCD123XY, the
publication would be: *****23XY.

• Alphabetic characters, and those numeric characters not selected for their
publication, they will be replaced by an asterisk for each position.”

Therefore, in addition to introducing the aforementioned measures in general, if
to publish or notify any act, it must be taken into account in addition to these
references, a special diligence for the possible identification or identifiability to
through other direct or indirect references that are not name and surnames or NIF
and that allow the person to be identified.

19/23

v

In addition to the data of the date of birth, the name and surnames appear
complete, together with the DNI number, as well as the disability with its degree of
petitioners, which is considered a health fact. According to the interpretation that
must be given to the RGPD is health data, according to recital 35:

“Personal data relating to health must include all data
related to the state of health of the interested party that give information about their state of
physical or mental health past, present or future. Information is included about the
natural person collected on the occasion of their registration for health care purposes,
or on the occasion of the provision of such assistance, in accordance with Directive
2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council; any number, symbol or data
assigned to a natural person who uniquely identifies him/her for purposes
toilets; information obtained from tests or examinations of a part of the body or
of a body substance, including from genetic data and samples
biological, and any information relating, by way of example, to a disease, a
disability, risk of disease, medical history, treatment
clinical or physiological or biomedical state of the data subject, regardless of their
source, such as a doctor or other health care professional, a hospital, a device
doctor, or an in vitro diagnostic test.”

In this case, the percentage of disability data is associated with the cause
12 or 16 of exclusion, in some cases as "lack of disability justification or without
certify, but there are also disabled in which only the cause of
exclusion 16 as “language selection missing”. SE observed as at least one
person does not appear in the definitive list of excluded, that is to say, it is accredited that he complies
the disabled requirement in the required degree. In this case, it insists on the lack of
proportionality of disclosing to any person in the BOE said data in the
cited listed when the scope of the participants is exceeded and with the name and
surnames and DNI, offering full identification to any person, and must
also limit such excess identification.

SAW

Regarding the collection and processing of data from special categories such as
are those of handicaps, for participation in selective processes, it is observed that
in the bases of the call there is no mention of the information on the
treatment of said data, which are of a different nature from the rest of the data.

In this regard, recital 39 of the RGPD indicates:
“All processing of personal data must be lawful and fair. For the people
physical data must be made absolutely clear that they are being collected, used, consulted
or treating in another way personal data that concerns them, as well as the extent
in which said data is or will be processed. The principle of transparency requires that all
information and communication regarding the processing of said data is easily
accessible and easy to understand, and that simple and clear language is used. Saying
principle refers in particular to the information of the interested parties on the identity
of the person in charge of the treatment and the purposes of the same and to the information added to
ensure fair and transparent treatment with respect to natural persons
affected and their right to obtain confirmation and communication of the data
personal data that concern them that are subject to treatment. natural persons

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

must be aware of the risks, standards, safeguards and rights
regarding the processing of personal data as well as the way to assert their
rights in relation to treatment. In particular, the specific purposes of the
processing of personal data must be explicit and legitimate, and must
be determined at the time of collection. Personal data must be
adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are
treated. This requires, in particular, ensuring that their use is limited to a strict minimum.
conservation period. Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing
treatment could not reasonably be achieved by other means. To ensure that
personal data is not kept longer than necessary, the person responsible for the
treatment must establish deadlines for its suppression or periodic review…”

Indicates article 9.1, 2 a) and g) of the RGPD: “The treatment of
personal data revealing ethnic or racial origin, political opinions,
religious or philosophical convictions, or trade union affiliation, and data processing
genetic, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a person
data, data relating to health or data relating to sexual life or orientation
sex of a natural person.

2. Section 1 shall not apply when one of the circumstances

following:

a) the interested party gave their explicit consent for the processing of said data
for one or more of the specified purposes, except when the Right of
the Union or the Member States establishes that the prohibition referred to in the
section 1 cannot be lifted by the interested party; ….

g) the treatment is necessary for reasons of an essential public interest, on the
basis of the law of the Union or of the Member States, which must be proportional
the objective pursued, essentially respect the right to data protection and
establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and rights
fundamentals of the interested party;

The respondent does not report the treatment of the data of the applicants who choose
by the disability system, providing data on the degree of disability. It can't be done
infer that the processing of your data is appropriate to this type of data, as it does not
be informed in any way about the purpose of said data and that the provision of the
consent must be express, without the signature of the application request being such,
not contain an end that refers to said data.

7th

Article 103.3 CE provides that "the law shall regulate the status of civil servants
public, access to the public function in accordance with the principles of merit and
ability…". Article 55.2 of Law 7/2007, of 12/04, of the Basic Statute of the
Public Employee (EBEP) establishes that "Public Administrations, entities and
bodies referred to in article 2 of this Statute will select their
official and labor personnel through procedures that guarantee the
constitutional principles previously expressed, as well as those established
continuation: a) publicity of the calls and their bases. b) transparency,…”;
while its article 61.1 EBEP recalls that the selection processes will have
open nature and will guarantee free attendance, without prejudice to the promotion
and the positive discrimination measures provided for in this Statute.

21/23

For its part, article 78 of the same legal text determines that “The
Public Administrations will provide the jobs through procedures
based on the principles of equality, merit, ability and publicity” and in accordance with the
article 62 the status of official is acquired, among other assumptions, by the
“overcome the selection process”.

Regarding people with disabilities, article 59.1 provides that: “In the
Public employment offers will reserve a quota of no less than seven percent of the
vacancies to be covered among people with disabilities, considering as
such as those defined in section 2 of article 1 of Law 51/2003, of 2/12, of
equal opportunities, non-discrimination and universal accessibility of people
with disabilities, provided that they pass the selective processes and prove their
disability and compatibility with the performance of tasks, so that
progressively reach two percent of the total troops in each
Public administration. The reserve of the minimum of seven percent will be made
so that at least two percent of the places offered are to be
covered by people who prove intellectual disability and the rest of the places
offered is for people who prove any other type of disability.”

Obviously, the guarantees required by the processing of personal data are not
may serve to obscure or nullify these general requirements that oblige
processes are conducted in compliance with minimum requirements of transparency and
advertising. The principle of transparency would affect those interested in the call,
without it being necessary once the deadline for submitting requests has expired.
Anyone can access the personal data of the participants. Question
different is that the publication if it is carried out with the new modality of the LOPDDG
it does not allow full identification, as full name and full tax identification number are not published. Nope
However, the transparency of the process is predictable in principle and as a basis for the
who participate as applicants in it, who in their capacity as interested parties
they can even access the information of other petitioners in their case, if
produces some kind of contestation of the valuations.

viii

These Infractions are referred to in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which indicates:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.

In this sense, article 77. 2 of the LOPGDD, indicates: "When the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

Those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed any of the
offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
of interested, in his case.”

Article 58.2 of the RGPD indicates: "Each control authority will have

all of the following corrective powers indicated below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period”.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been accredited, it is not imposed
specific measure to the claimed one that has already been sent to the AEBOE in writing so that
enable deindexation, with consideration of the monitoring itself that must be
perform until the aforementioned indexation is recorded.

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF INSTITUTIONS
PRISONS, with NIF S2813060G, for a violation of Article 9 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.
/
SECOND: IMPOSE the GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF INSTITUTIONS
PENITENTIARY, with NIF S2813060G, for an infraction of article 5 1.c) of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF
PENITENTIARY INSTITUTIONS, and the OMBUDSMAN,

FOURTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the

Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

23/23

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1/10. You must also
transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing of the
Sponsored links. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

