 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.409.1
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

September 13, 2019

Citizen-friendly administrative digitization is also possible without personal identification

 

 
The federal government is planning to introduce it as part of the digitization of administration
individual identification number. This is to ensure that records from
Citizens can be found more easily in various registers.
 
The introduction of such cross-administrative identifiers and a
The corresponding infrastructure poses a high risk of personal data being lost
easily compiled, connected and thus created comprehensive personality profiles
can become. The introduction of individual personal identifiers is therefore countered
significant privacy and constitutional concerns.
 
The Federal Constitutional Court has therefore been setting narrow limits for decades
regarding the use of such unique personal identifiers. Already the possibility
a cataloging of citizens by the state endangers this
Personal rights of each and every individual. From a data protection point of view, it applies
prevent personal data from being created in the different registers
comprehensive profiles of citizens are linked and thus significantly in
the right to informational self-determination of people is encroached upon.
 
In a joint resolution, the Conference of Data Protection Commissioners of the
Federal and the countries (DSK) therefore that uniform, cross-administrative
Personal identifiers are not introduced.
 
Maja Smoltczyk explains:
“Administrative digitization should enable citizens to use state
Facilitate facilities and services and is therefore very welcome. Here may
However, the constitutionally protected personal rights are not affected by the enabling
the creation of comprehensive personality profiles using individual personal identifiers
be disregarded"
 

 
Responsible: Jana Schönefeld

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   