

Bonn/Berlin, February 19, 2020


Press release 05/2020


EDSA for international data transfer between authorities
On February 19, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) adopted guidelines for international data transfer between authorities and from authorities to international organizations. The Committee is thus making it clear that government agencies must also secure their international data transfers.



The guidelines establish specific safeguards when authorities transfer personal data to partner authorities in third countries or to international organizations. The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Professor Ulrich Kelber, welcomed the agreement: the data protection directive did not provide for any specific protective measures. The EDPB is making it clear today that data protection for international data transfers between authorities must be legally binding and enforceable.
The result is a balance between strict data protection requirements and flexible implementation options. The guidelines provide practice-oriented instructions on how data transfers to third countries with a different official culture and legal framework can be made possible on the basis of the GDPR. For example, they describe necessary restrictions on data transfer by the authorities in third countries or the possible remedies for data subjects. The Committee also stresses the need for an independent body to monitor whether the authorities are complying with their obligations.
The guidelines can now first be commented on in a public consultation before the EDPB will finally adopt them. The next EDPB meeting is scheduled for March 19 in Brussels.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











