Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

Guidelines for the application of the nationally harmonized
Patient information and consent documents

Secondary Use of Patient Data

AG Consent of the Medical Informatics Initiative (MII)

 

 

Creator:

AG Consent of the National Steering Committee of the MII of the BMBF

Last updated:

04/16/2020

Referenced version
of the consent documents: Version 1.6d from 04/16/2020

Version of the handout:

0.9d

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

1/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

Background & Purpose

Intended use of patient information documents and
declaration of consent

As part of the medical informatics initiative of the BMBF (MII), all university hospitals in
Germany Data from care and research integrated for uses in both the
direct care as well as for medical research and can be used. In
In a first step, the initiative focuses on the integrated and standardized provision of
Patient data from clinical routine treatment.

As for the cross-site controlled use and provision of patient data
research purposes there is no uniform special legal basis in Germany,
Sample texts for uniform patient information and declaration of consent (in
Furthermore: consent documents) developed. The preparation was carried out in close coordination with the AG
Biobanks of the working group of medical ethics committees (AK EK). The final texts are with the
"Science" and "Health and Social Affairs" working groups of the Conference of Independent
Data protection officers of the federal and state governments as well as ethics committees and others
coordinated with stakeholders.

Regardless of the consent or non-consent of the patient1, other statutory
Permissions (e.g. in the form of a regulation in a state hospital law) for a - possibly
even only local – use of the data or merging of data from different sources
exist, which remain unaffected by this.

The present consent documents are only
patients who are able to consent.

for use by adults and

purpose of this manual

This handout explains the background of the development as well as the typical ones
Framework conditions for using the consent documents. Questions arising in the application
can arise and are not or not sufficiently answered from the documents themselves
can be answered here.

The target group of this handout are the users of the documents as well as committees and people who
Check the processes described here and, if necessary, the documents for consent yourself and
evaluate or be involved in an advisory capacity. This
appointed by state law
Ethics committees, the data protection officers of the institution concerned and those within the framework of the
MII established Use & Access Committees (UAC). In addition, this text can also ask questions
Answered by interested patients and relatives.

are after

Timing of Consent and Requirement for “Broad” Consent

In order to have a representative database free of systematic distortions for many diseases
to obtain consent as early as possible - i.e. before the start of treatment or at the beginning of the
treatment process – necessary. A later date of consent would be the scientific

                                                           

1 The term "patients" also includes female patients and is used here solely for the sake of better readability.

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

2/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

Significantly limit the significance of patients with an unfavorable course of the disease, who may
can also lead to the inability to give consent or even death,
in the record of
medical informatics initiative would be severely underrepresented.

Because at this necessarily early stage of consent, neither the precise objective
later analyzes based on the patient data nor the extent of the patient data that the
to be subjected to secondary analysis is a specific consent to the
Research on a specific type of disease or even on a specific research project
possible. The purpose of this declaration of consent is therefore broadly formulated.
Other reasons for using a broad consent statement are in a separate one
Document summarized.2

However, as an important limitation, it should be noted that patient data is only available for the
medical research to be made available and medical research to that effect
solely to improve the detection, treatment and prevention of diseases.
In particular, the patient data will not be used for the development of biological weapons or
discriminatory research content used. Likewise, it is not the aim of the research in which
to diagnose patients or influence their specific treatment.

Processes and regulations for the application of the consent documents

As part of the development and coordination of the consent documents with ethics committees and
Regulatory bodies have established processes and mechanisms for their application. have these
the goal of additional risks for the informational self-determination of the affected patients, the
to compensate for the broader purpose and longer storage period. For this
include the following technical, organizational and structural measures:

1. Various information materials are provided to accompany the consent documents
provided. These have the goal that all present and potentially all future
Patients before their consent a comprehensive picture of the meaning and purpose of the MII, as well as the
content and modules of the consent documents. In addition, they should find out about the
possible consequences of their consent and their right to a possible one at any time
be able to inform you about the revocation of consent.

2. On the research projects that will later use the patient data collected as part of the MII

use, must each have a favorable assessment of an independent, according to state law
be submitted to an appointed ethics committee.

3. At the participating university clinics or MII locations, central

Established escrow services that store the identity data in a secure and segregated area
of the affected patients and assigned, internal and non-speaking identifiers
(Coding)3 to protect donor identity and personal rights
manage affected patients.

                                                           

2 See http://www.medizininformatik-initiative.de/de/mustertext-zur-patienteneinständigung

3 The federal and state data protection authorities involved in the coordination of the consent documents
partly assumes that the separation of identity data implemented in the MII is not subject to pseudonymisation under Art. 4
No. 5 GDPR, since the separated medical data and in particular the biomaterial still contain data
Identification potential are included. Against this background, the AG Consent in this handout and in the
Consent documents initially on this term. However, the AG Consent of the MII still assumes that the
 

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

3/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

4. UACs are set up at the participating university clinics or locations of the MII, which
bring about the decision on the release of data and/or biomaterials and thereby
ensure compliance with all regulations and correct uses.

5. The valid usage regulations are made public.

6. The research projects are published on public websites with information about their funding

documented by a central office4 and the participating consortia or locations in order to
create transparency for the public.

7. Patients and other interested groups of people have the opportunity to contact an E-

Register for a mailing list that provides short-term information about newly registered research projects.

8. Patients who have consented to the use of their data have the right at any time to have their

Participation orally or in writing with or without reason and without detriment
revoke consequences. The revocation and its implementation are subject to the authority issuing the revocation
accepts to document. All institutions, patient data and, if applicable, biomaterials
have received, are to be informed about the revocation. If, in exceptional cases,
requests are made to the users for exceptions to the obligation to delete in the event of revocation
these applications and the decisions on them are transparently available on a central website
made.

9. Clearly defined,
ethically and clinically appropriate processes for dealing with additional findings5 established. In addition
the handling of additional findings must be addressed in the project applications.

10. Contracts for the use of patient data and, if applicable, biomaterial on the basis of the submitted

Consent documents are subject to German law. The place of jurisdiction is in Germany.

The following specifications are made specifically for biomaterials:

1. The fate of biomaterials is both in the biobanks of the locations involved in the MII and

also to be documented completely for all users.

2. There is no transfer of ownership of the biomaterials by the biobanks of those involved in the MII

Locations to users instead.

3. Any transmission of biomaterials by users that is not explicitly permitted becomes contractual

excluded.

4. Authorized transfers of biomaterials by users are only possible if they have the same

Terms apply as set forth in the original User Agreement. In addition, everyone must
must be named in the original contract of use.

                                                                                                                                                                                           

Process corresponds to a pseudonymization according to Art. 4 No. 5 DSGVO and can be based on a detailed analysis of the
Pseudonymisation term in the GDPR by Roßnagel (Dierks, C., Roßnagel, A., Secondary use of social and
Health data – legal framework. 2019, MWV, Berlin,
https://mwv-open.de/site/books/10.32745/9783954665181/, p. 174.)

4 The URL www.medizininformatik-initiative/datenutilisation is initially reserved for this purpose.

5 The term “additional findings” is used here in accordance with the consent documents. It's with
however, no findings in the sense of a reliable clinical diagnosis are meant.

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

4/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

5. If consent is revoked, there is a contractual right to destruction in relation to the

affected biomaterial to the respective users.

All technical, organizational and structural measures are defined in a generic
Documented data protection concept, which is coordinated with the data protection supervisory authorities.
The data protection concepts of the locations in the MII are based on this uniform data protection concept
on. The AG Consent of the MII expressly recommends making all data protection concepts public on the web
to make accessible.

Modular consent documents: structure and customization options

Requirement for national standardization of the consent form of the MII

A legally compliant cross-site use of patient data and, if necessary,
Consent-based biomaterials requires semantic at all sites
identical
consent documents.

According to Art. 7 Para. 1 of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the responsible bodies must
be able to demonstrate that the data subjects are involved in the specific processing of their data
have consented. If the data and possibly biomaterials are used across locations
such evidence based on the semantic content of each individual consent document
must obtain, which was presented to one of the affected patients at one of the locations, only
are kept if all consent documents used with regard to data protection law
relevant statements have matching formulations. In the event that the texts of the
Consent documents are not accepted in accordance with the specifications of this handout,
Evidence of equivalence under data protection law must be provided at the respective location and
be documented.

In addition, such a national harmonization also creates greater transparency towards the
patients. They can thus rely on the MII consent documents at all locations
be presented with identical content. Ideally, they already know the content based on the
public relations work of the MII or from a treatment stay at another location. This
The extent to which patients are informed within the framework of the MII must not be caused by unexpected
formulations at one of the locations are subverted.

In order to avoid legal uncertainties resulting from semantic divergence and the patient
to maintain the greatest possible transparency is therefore an exact adoption of the text of the
submitted consent documents are mandatory.

This procedure then also enables a uniform translation of the consent documents in
other languages. Consented and checked translations into various foreign languages as well as into
simple German language are available on the website of the Medical Informatics Initiative6.

Modular construction

Obtaining a large number of declarations of consent and securing the necessary consent
The necessary education as part of routine care represents a major challenge
practical implementation is only possible with good organization and efficient use of resources.

                                                           

6 see www.medizininformatik-initiative.de

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

5/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

In this respect, patient information and the declaration of consent must, on the one hand, be based on the one location
absolutely necessary
Content and choices are limited. on the other hand
However, the locations in the MII differ in terms of their requirements for content and
choices. For example, locations with a centralized biobank are usually
also want to obtain consent for the use of biomaterials, whereas this is the case for others
Locations without such an infrastructure is not necessary. The consent documents were therefore
modularly structured so that each location only gives consent for the locally relevant content and
can get choices. In addition, the confrontation of patients with additional
Information and consent forms largely avoided. The individual modules are content-wise
and formally clearly separated from each other. To later cross-site and interoperable
To guarantee data usage, the modules must be fully adopted or left out entirely
become. Two modules are marked as compulsory modules in order to ensure a minimum level
ensure interoperable data usage. The other modules can be flexibly combined
become.

In the Word file with the patient information and informed consent form, all are numbered
References to chapters and sub-items as automatically updatable cross-references (with the help of
Word field codes) added. In this respect, by updating all field codes in Microsoft
Even after removing any modules, Word always automatically creates a version with the correct one
references are created.

Currently, the following modules are included in the consent documents in this order:

• Routine data usage (mandatory)
• Retrieval and merging of patient data with patient-related

Payer data/health insurance data (optional)

• Use of residual biomaterials and the add-on permitted according to the consent documents

samples (optional)

• Permission to be contacted again (mandatory)

The currently agreed set of modules will be supplemented with additional content. Currently the
the following modules are planned:

• Permission to contact the family doctor for obtaining additional data and the

correspondingly necessary release of the general practitioner from confidentiality;

• Use of those already available in the treating institution from past decades

Patient data and, if applicable, biomaterials stored in biobanks or archives;

• Biomaterials, such as a blood sample, beyond those used in the treatment context
required additional amount of blood allowed in the consent text or one
Removal of tissue that requires another intervention, e.g. puncture. In these cases is
clarification by medical personnel and documentation of this clarification necessary;

• Use of and comparison with population register data.

For patient and test person information including declarations of consent in studies or others
research project
in planning, which the subsequent use of this
Study data allowed in context and according to the rules of the MII. This module should then be used as a text block in
other consent documents can be adopted and in terms of a graded
Declaration of consent to offer the subsequent use of the data as an option.

is an additional module

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

6/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

If there are requirements for further modules, these must also be replaced within the MII by the
AG Consent to be coordinated and harmonized. Accordingly, suggestions can already be included
specific wording suggestions, can be submitted to AG Consent at any time.

Supplementary information offers, forms and variants of the sample texts

The following additional information is in development:

•

•
•

Information video (approx. 4 min. running time) for patient information and declaration of consent in
German and English, with and without subtitles in the respective language and in variants
with and without modules for biomaterials and cash register data
Information flyer for patient information and declaration of consent
Offer of information on the use of genetic data in research and the possible
Consequences for the affected subjects and patients

The following variants of the sample texts for patient information and declaration of consent are in
Preparation:

• Variants for children and young people and their legal guardians
• Variants in other languages

In addition, a standardized revocation form for optional use is in preparation.

Necessity and limits of local adaptation

The first necessary adjustment is the two optional modules on the biomaterials as well
to check the health insurance data and to decide whether and which of the modules are to be used at the location
should be. Unused optional modules must be completely removed from the documents.

The consent documents contain a number of placeholders that always precede an application
be replaced with specific information. The placeholders are enclosed by square brackets
marked ("[...]"), which are to be deleted after the replacement. The ones to insert instead of the placeholders
Information concerns, on the one hand, necessary specifications regarding the local location and, on the other hand
References to optional modules that are easy to delete when the module is deleted. the latter are
usually introduced with the phrase "if applicable ...". Before using the documents must all
Placeholders in square brackets have to be completely replaced.

For the quantity limitation in the collection of additional biomaterials within the scope of routine
Two mutually exclusive options are available for withdrawals: The total amount
limitation over a time interval or a quantity limitation per material extraction.

The selection of the option and the determination of the specific quantity limit per time interval or
Collection must be coordinated with the local ethics committee.

Further changes to the text of the consent documents are not permitted. The
use
corresponding
Patient information and associated informed consent forms are only permitted if the above
stated rules are observed.

and/or figurative mark

"MII Consent"

the word-

the

on

Presentation/formatting of the documents

The standardization approach primarily refers to the textual content of the documents, not that
Layout. This must meet the usual legibility requirements. Emphasis etc., the one

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

7/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

weighting that deviates from the template or the like should be avoided
become. An electronic presentation, e.g. on mobile devices, is explicitly permitted and desired.
The explicit consent, i.e. the active selection of information must be retained, whereby,
unless an active yes/no decision is technically enforced for each module, rejection
must be specified as a preselection in the electronic image.

consent process

The present consent documents are for use
within the stationary
admission process in university clinics (but also in outpatient clinics, medical practices and others
service providers in the German health care system), but not for this application scenario
limited. In accordance with the World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki (paragraph 26).
medical advice is not required. This also applies to the additional module "Biomaterial" for as long
no further intervention takes place (e.g. no additional blood sampling or renewed puncture/invasive
intervention). However, specially trained, non-medical personnel are available at the sites to provide information,
including answering any open questions from patients and obtaining consent.

As part of the informational talks, patients should also be made aware of
that information can result from the use of patient data and possibly biomaterials -
in particular in connection with the processing of genetic data – which is also for their
Blood relatives are of great importance. In this respect, the possibility should also be pointed out
to discuss the decision on this consent with close family members.

To secure and document the consent process, it is recommended that consent
in addition to the signature of the patient, also have it signed by the person who
carried out clarification and obtained consent.

The signed consent document can either be archived in paper form or scanned and
then archived electronically in an audit-proof manner. In any case, obtaining an informed must
Consent can be proven. There may be additional requirements for consent from the
State data protection or a state hospital law applicable. These can also
Written form requirement, so that in these cases the destruction of the original document
can lead to legal risks.

The declaration of consent can alternatively be presented in electronic form and (electronically)
to be signed. In this case, too, the obligation to provide evidence must be observed. In addition, the
Complete electronic mapping of the consent process with state law,
specific framework conditions, such as a written form requirement, collide. Next is at
Presentation of all information in electronic form to note that patients also become one
any later point in time still have to be able to verify the conditions under which they
which form of data use you have consented to. For this, the original texts still have to be sent to them
To be available.

For interoperability between sites, it is recommended that the consent status be increased
Each module as well as the document version and the date of consent are collected and structured
be stored electronically. For this purpose, an implementation specification is currently being developed as part of the MII
Developed.

In order to ensure that the patients are voluntarily and informed, they must first be of legal age
and to determine the ability of the affected patients to give consent. A direct coupling of
consent process
administrative and mandatory for the treatment of patients
accounting-relevant processes such as e.g. B. the contractual agreements on inpatient treatment

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

8/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

("Hosting Agreement") is not permitted. In particular, the consent documents must not be part
of the admission contract are presented or suggested to the patient in any way that
the signature would be a requirement for treatment. To achieve this, the
Consent process from the administrative admission process taking into account practicability
and resource availability are decoupled as far as possible.

To ensure that patients are better informed, accompanying multimedia information should also be available in the future
contribute to the consent documents. These are intended to enable patients to
In the run-up to the treatment situation, but at least in the run-up to the consent process, yes
in detail about the purpose, content and consequences of consent within the framework of the MII and about the
Right to and possible ways of withdrawing consent. In addition to detailed
referenced online materials, short films are also being developed for this purpose, which e.g. B. on screens in
Waiting areas or patient rooms can be presented.

Data storage and data use: ethical and data protection aspects

Data protection legal responsibility, data protection concept

A patient's consent to the secondary use of their patient data is generally required
obtained separately for each location in the MII. When a patient is in multiple locations consecutively
is in treatment, he must consent to the secondary use of his patient data at each location.
The facility/institution at the site that obtains the relevant consent is specific as
to designate the responsible body and for the implementation of the following from the consent
process steps, including the implementation of revocations. Vice versa must also
each individual consent can be revoked individually at the responsible office.

The concrete design of the implementation of routine data secondary use on the basis of
harmonized consent documents is in a specific and responsible body
to describe a specific data protection concept. The data protection concept must also
Requirements for a data protection impact assessment according to Art. 35 EU-DSGVO are sufficient. The creation
must be coordinated with the data protection officer of the responsible body. In some cases it can
the data protection concept is also checked by the competent supervisory authority. To the
to simplify the coordination and testing of the data protection concepts at all locations and
To be able to guarantee a uniformly high standard of data protection within the framework of the MII, the
Data protection concepts at the locations based on a generic concept that is in preparation
which in turn is coordinated with all responsible data protection supervisory authorities.

The data processing itself is in the processing directory according to the General Data Protection Regulation
document.

Ethical Advice

In accordance with the World Medical Association's Taipei Declaration (paragraph 19), the
Establishment of a data integration center in the MII and, if necessary, the establishment of one
affiliated biobank received the approval of an independent ethics committee.

For each research project in the context of which data and, if applicable, biomaterials from the locations of the
MII are used, is a positive assessment of the leader of the research project
independent ethics committee and submit it to all relevant sites. a den
professional requirements for doctors, if necessary, sufficient proof of advice from an independent
Ethics committee without a positive evaluation is not sufficient for this.

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

9/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

Recontact and notification of analysis results

The consent documents see a differentiation between analysis results that a medical
Trigger duty of care, and other additional findings. The former refer to the fact that in
In individual cases there is the possibility that an evaluation result for the health of those affected
Patients of such significant importance is that a doctor or researcher is contacted as
deemed urgently necessary. This is particularly the case when there is an urgent suspicion
to a serious, previously undiagnosed disease that is being treated or
the outbreak of which could be prevented. Such a case could arise, for example, if
Image data can be found through additional analysis of an aortic aneurysm. currently is
It is not yet foreseeable how often such cases will already occur in the context of scientific analysis
found data. The contact must always be made by a doctor –
if possible out of the treatment context.

In addition, further analysis results may arise that may only be relevant to the
health of the affected patients are relevant (additional findings). About this may only be based on the
additional consent in the recontacting module. Such information can
relate, for example, to risk factors for certain diseases.

Release of data use

The decision on the actual release of data and, if applicable, biomaterials for use by
Research projects will be submitted by local UACs on the basis of the at each site
ethics vote and the detailed description of the data required for the project.
In justified individual cases, the local UAC can issue a supplementary statement from the local
Get an ethics committee. If the primary advisory ethics committee recommends that for the
Research project additional secondary votes from the ethics committees responsible for the sites
are to be obtained, the respective local UAC will only advise the project after approval
Evaluation of the local ethics committee.

Data transfer to countries with a lower level of data protection

The transmission is in coordination with the data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments
of data
to countries where the European Commission has not provided an appropriate
level of data protection was determined based on the current consent form
admissible.

Validity for data collected in the future and renewed consent

On the basis of the consent documents formulated here, the patient data and, if applicable,
Biomaterials of the current treatment case and of future treatment cases of the coming ones
5 years of the same facility for subsequent use can be collected or won. But there is
possibility that the patient will re-enter a survey of his or her during this period or thereafter
patient data and, if necessary, the collection of biomaterials.

storage of the data

The patient data collected on the basis of the present consent documents can be used for
stored for up to 30 years after the patient gave their most recent consent and
used unless the patient objects in the meantime. This deadline is based on

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

10/11

Medical Informatics Initiative
Accompanying structure - coordination office of the national steering committee

statutory retention periods for patient data in care, so that by the
Provision as part of the MII no sensitive data is stored at the site longer than this
happens in the supply context anyway.

Retrospective data usage

Patient data from previous treatment cases at the time of consent
used if they are used for the current treatment case. This can lead to
For example, data about previous diagnoses, test results and therapies.

outlook

The AG Consent of the MII will process the submitted consent documents according to the requirements
of the locations and consortia of the MII and add further modules.
As before, this is done in close coordination with representatives of the data protection supervisory authorities and
by ethics committees.

 

MII_AG-Consent_Handreichung_v0.9d.docx

04/16/2020

11/11

