Opinion 18/2021 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses

submitted by the LT SA (Article 28(8) GDPR)

Adopted on 19 May 2021

Adopted

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1
2

3
4

2.1
2.2

Summary of the Facts.....................................................................................................................4
Assessment.....................................................................................................................................4
General reasoning of the Board regarding the set of standard contractual clauses..............4
Analysis of the draft decision and of the draft standard contractual clauses ........................5
2.2.1
General remark on the whole SCCs and on the draft decision.......................................5
2.2.2
Purpose of the agreement (Chapter I of the SCCs).........................................................6
2.2.3
Obligation of the parties (Chapter II of the SCCs)...........................................................6
2.2.4
Confidentiality (Chapter III of the SCCs)..........................................................................7
2.2.5
Security of processing (Chapter IV of the SCCs)..............................................................7
2.2.6
Engagement of other data processor (Chapter V of the SCCs).......................................8
2.2.7
Transfer of data to third countries or international organisations (Chapter VI of the
SCCs)
9
2.2.8
Assistance to the data controller (Chapter VII of the SCCs) ...........................................9
2.2.9
Notification of personal data breach (Chapter VIII of the SCCs)...................................10
2.2.10
Erasure and return of data (Chapter IX of the SCCs) ....................................................11
2.2.11
Control of the data processor / Audit and inspection (Chapter X of the SCCs)............11
2.2.12
Final provisions (Chapter XI of the SCCs) ......................................................................11
2.2.13
Annex 1 .........................................................................................................................11
2.2.14
Annex 2 .........................................................................................................................12
2.2.15
Annex 3 .........................................................................................................................12
Conclusions ..................................................................................................................................13
Final Remarks ...............................................................................................................................13

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 28(8), Article 63 and Article 64(1)(d), (3) - (8) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter, “GDPR”),

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter, the “Board”) is to ensure the
consistent application of the GDPR throughout the Union. To this end, the Board shall issue an opinion
based on Article 64(1)(d) GDPR where a supervisory authority (hereinafter, “SA”) aims to determine
standard contractual clauses (hereinafter, also “SCCs”) referred to in Article 28(8) GDPR. The aim of
this Opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach concerning measures to be adopted
by a supervisory authority that are intended to produce legal effects as regards processing operations
which substantially affect a significant number of data subjects in several Member States and the
consistent implementation of the GDPR’s specific provisions.

(2)  In  the  context  of  the  relationship  between  a data controller  and  a data processor  (or data
processors) for  the  processing  of  personal  data, the GDPR  establishes,  in  its Article  28,  a  set  of
provisions with respect to the setting up of a specific contract between the parties involved and to
mandatory provisions that should be incorporated in it.

(3) According  to Article  28(3)  GDPR, the  processing  by  a data processor “shall  be  governed  by  a
contract or other legal act under Union or Member State law that is binding on the processor with
regard to the controller”; a set of specific aspects to regulate the contractual relationship between the
parties is  therefore  set  out,  including  among  others, the  subject-matter  and  duration of  the
processing, its nature and purpose, the type of personal data and categories of data subjects.

(4) Under Article 28(6) GDPR, without prejudice to an individual contract between the data controller
and the data processor, the contract or the other legal act referred in paragraphs (3) and (4) of Article
28 GDPR may  be  based, in  whole or in  part, on  standard  contractual  clauses.  These  standard
contractual clauses are to be adopted for the matters referred to in paragraphs (3) and (4).

(5) Furthermore, Article 28(8) GDPR determines that a SA may adopt a set of standard contractual
clauses in accordance with the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63. In this regard, SAs are
required to cooperate with other members of the Board and, where relevant, with the European
Commission through the consistency mechanism. Pursuant to Article 64(1)(d), SAs are required to

1 References to the “Union” or the “EU” made throughout this Opinion should be understood as references to
the “EEA”.

3

Adopted

communicate  to the Board  any  draft  decision  aiming  to  determine  standard  contractual  clauses
pursuant to Article 28(8). In this context, the Board is required to issue an opinion on the matter,
pursuant to Article 64(3), where it has not already issued an opinion on the same matter.

(6) Adopted standard contractual clauses constitute a set of guarantees to be used as is, as they are
intended  to  protect  data  subjects  and  mitigate  specific  risks  associated  with  the  fundamental
principles of data protection.

(7) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with
Article 10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the
Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete (unless the
period is extended upon decision of the Chair by a further six weeks).

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

The Lithuanian supervisory authority (hereinafter, “LT SA”) has submitted its draft decision and its
draft standard contractual clauses to the Board, requesting its opinion pursuant to Article 64(1)(d), for
a consistent approach at Union level. After the decision on the completeness of the file, the EDPB
Secretariat circulated the file to all members on behalf of the Chair on 26 March 2021.

The  Board  has  received  the  draft SCCs from the LT SA along with a draft  decision explaining  the
background and role of the standard contractual clauses. These two documents were provided by the
LT SA in an English version.

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the Board regarding the set of standard contractual clauses
Any set of standard contractual clauses submitted to the Board under Article 28(8) and Article 64(1)(d)
must further specify the provisions foreseen in Article 28 GDPR. The opinion of the Board aims at
ensuring  consistency  and a  correct application of  Article 28 GDPR  as  regards the  presented  draft
clauses, which could serve as Art. 28(8) standard contractual clauses.

4.

The Board notes that the draft SCCs presented to the Board are composed of two parts:

1) a general part containing general provisions to be used “as is”; and

2) a specific part that has to be completed by the parties with regard to the specific

processing which the contract seeks to govern.

5.

The Board recalls that the evaluation of each draft decision subject to the consistency mechanism is
made individually and on its own merits, bearing in mind the goal of ensuring consistency.

Adopted

4

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

The EDPB has already expressed its views on draft standard contractual clauses for the purposes of
compliance with Article 28 GDPR in EDPB Opinion 14/20192, EDPB Opinion 17/20203, and EDPB-EDPS
Joint Opinion 1/20214.

When this opinion remains silent on one or more clauses of the SCCs submitted by the LT SA, it means
that the Board is not asking the LT SA to take further action with regard to those specific clauses.
2.2 Analysis of the draft decision and of the draft standard contractual clauses

2.2.1 General remark on the whole SCCs and on the draft decision

Since a contract under Article 28 GDPR should further stipulate and clarify how the obligations in
Article 28(3)-(4) will be fulfilled, the SCCs need to be analysed in their entirety.

In addition, the Board recalls that the possibility to use Standard Contractual Clauses adopted by a
supervisory authority does not prevent the parties from adding other clauses or additional safeguards,
provided that they do not contradict, directly or indirectly, the adopted standard contractual clauses
or  prejudice  the  fundamental  rights  or  freedoms  of  the  data  subjects. Furthermore,  where  the
standard  data  protection  clauses  are  modified,  the  parties  will  no  longer  be  deemed  to  have
implemented adopted standard contractual clauses. Consequently, the Board recommends that the
LT SA replace the words “if they directly or indirectly contradict” in the draft decision (paragraph 2) by
“as long as they do not directly or indirectly contradict”.

The Board notes that the wording of several clauses of the SCCs in the English version provided are
not in line with the terminology of the relevant provisions of the GDPR. Examples include: “controller’s
duties” (used instead of “controller’s obligations”), “Union or Member State legal acts” (used instead
of  “Union  or  Member  State  law”),  “permission”  (used  instead  of “authorization”),  “prove”  (used
instead of “demonstrate”), “special” (used instead of “specific”). The Board therefore recommends
the LT SA to align the wording of those clauses with the relevant provisions of the GDPR.

Further, the Board is of the opinion that the use of the word “Agreement” to designate SCCs may
trigger confusion between this contractual document which serve as Article 28(8) GDPR standard
contractual clauses and other possible agreements that might be concluded by the Parties. For the
sake of clarity, the Board recommends that the LT SA replace the words “Agreement” by “Standard

2 EDPB Opinion 14/2019 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses submitted by the DK SA (Article 28(8)
GDPR), adopted on 9 July 2019, available here:
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_opinion_201914_dk_scc_en.pdf ; The final version of
the standard contractual clauses for the purposes of compliance with Article 28 GDPR adopted by the Danish
SA is available here: https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/decisionsa/dk-sa-standard-
contractual-clauses-purposes-compliance-art_en.
3 EDPB Opinion 17/2020 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses submitted by the SI SA (Article 28(8) GDPR),
adopted on 19 May 2020, available here:
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_opinion_202017_art28sccs_si_en.pdf.
4 EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 1/2021 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses submitted by the European
Commission (Article 28(7) GDPR), adopted on 19 May 2020, available here:
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/edpbedps-joint-opinion/edpb-edps-joint-opinion-
12021-standard_en.

Adopted

5

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

Contractual Clauses” or “Clauses” where referring to the aforementioned SCCs, in the whole draft
decision and in the whole annex.

The  Board recommends  removing  the  reference  to “other  mutual  agreements”  from  page  1 (last
paragraph) of the draft SCCs as it seems to imply that additional clauses or agreements entered into
by the parties fall within the scope of the SCCs themselves.

Finally, the Board is of the opinion that a specific provision on the definition of the terms used in the
Clauses might be added to the SCCs in order to avoid any difficulties in practice. The Board therefore
encourages the LT SA to specify that whenever the Clauses use the terms defined in the GDPR, those
terms have the meaning given to such terms by the GDPR itself.

2.2.2 Purpose of the agreement (Chapter I of the SCCs)

Regarding clause 2 of the SCCs, the Board is of the opinion that the wording “[where applicable, details
of the agreement on provision of such services]” is not fully clear, and encourages the LT SA to further
clarify which type of details the parties would be expected to insert. As an example, the clause may
be  redrafted  as  follows: “[where  applicable,  specify details  on  the  agreement  entered  into  by  the
Parties on these services, e.g. date / title]”. In addition, and in order to avoid any doubt regarding what
should be filled in by the Parties in Annex 1, the Board encourages the LT SA to replace the words
“including but not limited to the subject, purpose and nature of the processing of personal data, types
of personal data, categories of the data subjects etc.” with a direct reference to Annex 1.

2.2.3 Obligation of the parties (Chapter II of the SCCs)

Regarding clause 3 of the SCCs, the Board is of the opinion that the reference to commitments that
the controller “shall undertake” may be misleading in the context of a contract because the rights and
obligations of the controller described in clause 3 are already vested in the controller by the GDPR,
and that it should be deleted. In addition, this clause would be clearer if a reference to Article 24 GDPR
and its accountability principle were made. Consequently, the Board recommends that clause 3.1 be
modified, for instance, as follows: “[The Data Controller] is responsible for ensuring that the processing
of personal data takes place in compliance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (see Article 24 GDPR) [...]”.
Regarding clause 3.2 of the SCCs, since the controller has already defined the purposes and means of
the processing activity subject to the SCCs, the Board recommends to the LT SA to rephrase it as
follows: “3.2 [The Data Controller] has the right and obligation to make decisions about the purposes
and means of the processing of personal data”.
Regarding clause  3.3 of  the  SCCs,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  it  should  be  clarified  that  the
obligation of the controller is not limited to the identification of the legal basis, and thus recommends
that the clause be redrafted as follows: “3.3 [The Data Controller] shall be responsible, among others,
for ensuring that the processing of personal data which the data processor is instructed to perform has
a legal basis.”
Regarding clause 4.1 of the SCCs, third sentence, the Board is of the opinion that the possibility for
the controller to give subsequent or further instructions is necessary to fully implement the rights and
obligations of the parties set out in the clause 4, but is not unlimited. Any subsequent instruction
should be in line with the respective rights and obligations of the parties set out in the SCCs. For the
sake of clarity, the EDPB therefore encourages the LT SA to specify this in the clause.

6

Adopted

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

Furthermore, the  Board  considers  that where the  processor  processes the  data  not  under  the
instructions of the controller but because it is required to do so by Union or Member State law to
which it is subject, then the processor shall inform the controller of the legal requirement before the
processing of this data, unless that law prohibits such information on important grounds of public
interest. The Board therefore recommends to the LT SA to include this specification.

2.2.4 Confidentiality (Chapter III of the SCCs)

Regarding clause 7 of the SCCs, first sentence, the Board recommends, for the sake of consistency and
clarity, that the LT SA bring the wording in line with Article 28(3)(b) GDPR and refer explicitly to the
principle of the access to the personal data on a “need-to-know” basis. The Board would therefore
suggest the following wording: “under the processor’s authority who have committed themselves to
confidentiality or are under an appropriate statutory obligation of confidentiality and only on a need
to know basis”. Furthermore, the Board encourages the LT SA to split the following part of clause 7
into different paragraphs and introduce some amendments in order to enhance its clarity: clause 7
can therefore be reorganised as follows: “7. [...] The Parties ensure that: 7.1. In case of a need to
change in the persons having access to personal data, their right of access to the Data Controller’s
personal data shall be revoked not later than on the last day on which their tasks require them to have
access to the personal data of the Data Controller entrusted to the Processor. In case of discontinuation
of employment relationship with the employee of the Data Processor, the access rights to the Data
Controller’s personal data shall be revoked not later than on the last day of work. 7.2 The list of persons
granted access to personal data shall be reviewed on a periodical basis [...]”.

2.2.5 Security of processing (Chapter IV of the SCCs)

Regarding clause 9 of the SCCs, the Board recommends that the LT SA specify that the level of the risk
should take into account “the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope,
context and purposes of processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights
and  freedoms  of  natural  persons”,  which  corresponds  to  the wording  of  Article  32(1)  GDPR.  This
specific wording is used in the GDPR to make sure that the level of security applied to the processing
of personal data is always in line with the latest technological evolutions.

Regarding clause 11 of the SCCs, the Board encourages the LT SA to delete “which may arise” and to
replace “minimise the risk” by “mitigate the risk”. In addition, the Board recommends to the LT SA to
clarify that “independently from the controller” refers to the assessment of the risk, rather than to the
implementation of measures, which in the current wording is not entirely clear. As an example, the
first sentence of the clause may be redrafted as follows: “According to  Article 32  GDPR, the  data
processor shall also – independently from the data controller – evaluate the risks to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons inherent in the processing activity entrusted to it by the controller, and
implement measures to mitigate those risks”.
Regarding clause 12 of the SCCs, the Board recommends that the LT SA align the wording with Article
28(3)(f) GDPR, by referring to assistance to the controller in ensuring compliance with the obligation
(instead of “fulfilment” of its “duties”) provided for in Article 32 GDPR.
Regarding clause 13 of the SCCs, the Board understands that the first sentence refers to the case
where subsequently, in the assessment of the controller, the mitigation of the identified risks requires
further measures to be implemented by the processor. If it is the case, the Board recommends to the
LT SA to clarify this. As regards the second sentence of the clause, the Board is of the opinion that it
7

Adopted

25.

26.

27.

may be misleading to specify the right of the controller to obtain evidence of implementation of such
supplementary measures, considering that the audit right of the controller applies more broadly to all
the obligations laid down in these SCCs as provided for in Article 28(3)(h) GDPR. The Board therefore
recommends to the LT SA to amend this sentence and make reference to Chapter X of the SCCs (e.g.
“The  Data  Processor  shall  make  available  to  the  Data  Controller  all  information  necessary  to
demonstrate compliance with its obligations as provided in Chapter X of the Clauses”).

2.2.6 Engagement of other data processor (Chapter V of the SCCs)

Regarding  Chapter  V  of  the  SCCs, the  Board encourages the  LT  SA  to  slightly  rephrase  several
sentences in order to clarify them. In clause 16, “for the performance of this Agreement” could be
redrafted as “for the performance of the processing carried out under this Agreement”. In clause 16.1,
the words “to the date of engagement” can be replaced by “before the date of engagement”. In clause
16.2, “no later than till [specify the period]” can be replaced by “no later than [specify the period] in
advance” and “special additional” by “specific”. Finally, the Board suggests avoiding repetition of the
reference to Annex 2 in the latest sentences of clauses 16.1 and 16.2 which is already stated in clause
15.
Regarding clause 17 of the SCCs more specifically, the reference to the possibility to enter into a
contract or another legal act as currently included in the draft SCCs seems to be potentially misleading.
Therefore, the Board recommends that this clause should be aligned with the wording of Article 28(4).
In addition, the Board considers that it should specified in this clause that prior to the processing, the
data processor shall inform the sub-processor of the identity and contact details of the controller for
which the sub-processor processes personal data. The Board encourages the LT SA to rephrase the
clause accordingly, for example as follows: “Where the Processor engages a sub-processor for carrying
out the particular processing on behalf of the Controller, the same data protection obligations as set
out  between  the  controller  and  the  processor  shall  be  imposed  on  the  sub-processor  by  way  of  a
contract  or  another  legal  act  under  Union  or  Member State  law,  in  particular providing  sufficient
guarantees to implement appropriate technical and organizational measures so that processing meets
the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Prior to processing, the data processor shall inform the
sub-processor of the identity and contact details of the controller for which the sub-processor processes
personal data”.

Regarding clause 18 of the SCCs, the Board notes that the suggested obligation for the processor to
provide a copy of the contract with the sub-processor where there is an impact on the instructions or
the level of security is not explicitly provided by the GDPR and may be of unclear application for the
parties, but understands the intention of requiring the processor to notify the controller in case of
issues arising in connection with the engaged sub-processor. The Board recommends therefore that
the LT SA replace this provision with the obligation for the processor to notify to the controller any
failure by the sub-processor to fulfil its obligations under the contract or other legal act binding on
this sub-processor. Finally, the last sentence should be rephrased as follows: “The Data Processor is
not obliged to provide the provisions of the Agreement on the business-related issues which do not
have an impact on the terms and conditions of the legal protection of personal data of the contract
concluded with the sub-processor”.

28.

Regarding clause 19 of the SCCs, the Board understands that the intention is to create a “third party
beneficiary right” for the controller within the contract between the data processor and the sub-
processor. Therefore, the Board encourages the LT SA to clarify the nature of the clause for instance
by redrafting the first sentence as follows: the processor “shall agree on a third-party beneficiary
8

Adopted

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

clause with a sub-processor (if any) providing that [...]”. The Board also recommends that “continue
data processing relationship directly with the sub-processor” should be replaced with “enforce the
agreement directly against the sub-processor”. Additionally, the Board recalls that it sees an added
value in having such a clause as part of a standard contractual clauses as it preserves the rights of the
controller and therefore recommends to the LT SA to transform it into a non-optional clause.
Regarding clause 20 of the SCCs, the Boards encourages the LT SA to include a reminder that the “The
data processor shall be responsible for requiring that the sub-processor at least complies with the
obligations to which the data processor is subject pursuant to the Clauses and the GDPR”.

2.2.7 Transfer  of  data  to  third  countries  or  international  organisations  (Chapter  VI  of  the

SCCs)

The Board encourages to the LT SA to clarify that the words “third countries” refer to countries outside
of the EEA and not outside of Lithuania. This could be carried out by adding in clause 21 “[...] third
countries (i.e. countries outside of the European Economic Area) [...]”.

In addition, the Board recommends the deletion of footnote 2 in clause 21 and of the same sentence
in Annex 3, Point 6 due to the fact that such standard contractual clauses do not appear as the relevant
document to elaborate on the definition of the notion of transfers of personal data.

Regarding clause 22 of the SCCs, the Board recommends to replace the wording “transfer of such
information” with “communication of such information”, in order to avoid any confusion with the
notion of transfer as referred to in Chapter V of the GDPR.

Regarding clause 23.1 of the SCCs, the Board encourages the LT SA to clarify the wording as follows:
“to  transfer  personal  data  to a Data  Controller  or a Data  Processor in a  third  country  or in  an
international organisation”.

The Board considers that mentioning the chosen tool for transfers, in addition to the instructions,
contributes to demonstrating compliance of the parties with Chapter V of the GDPR; therefore, the
EDPB encourages the LT SA to further clarify clause 24 of the SCCs as follows: “The data controller’s
instructions or approval regarding transfers of personal data to a third country including, if applicable,
the transfer tool under Chapter V of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on which they are based, shall be set
out in Annex 3 of these standard contractual clauses”.

2.2.8 Assistance to the data controller (Chapter VII of the SCCs)

The Board encourages, for the sake of clarity as well as consistency with Article 28(3)(e) GDPR, the LT
SA to  slightly  rephrase  the clause  26 of  the  SCCs  as  follows: “Taking  into  account  the  nature  of
processing, the Data Processor shall assist the Data Controller to fulfil the Data Controller’s obligation
to  respond  to  the  requests  for  exercise  of  the  data  subject’s  rights  provided  for  in  Chapter  III  of
Regulation  (EU) 2016/679  by  appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures insofar  as  this  is
possible. This implies that the Data Processor shall, insofar as this is possible, assist the Data Controller
in its obligation to give effect to the following data subject rights”.
Regarding clause 27 of the SCCs, the Board notes that the content of this clause is repeated in clause
29. The Board therefore encourages the LT SA to merge clause 27 into clause 29, so that the new
clause is aimed to ensure that the parties detail the arrangements on the manner the processor is
bound to assist the controller relating to data subject rights and data breaches in Annex 3. By way of

9

Adopted

example, the new clause could read as follows: “The Parties shall establish in Annex 3 hereto the
appropriate technical and organisational measures which should be taken by the Data Processor to
assist the Data Controller with data subject rights and with the obligations under Articles 33 to 36
GDPR, as set out in paragraphs 26 and 27 hereof”.

37.

The Board understands that clause 28 of the SCCs, coupled with clause 12, is aimed to reflect the
content of Article 28(3)(f) GDPR: while clause 12 refers to the processor’s assistance with compliance
with Article 32 GDPR, clause 28 covers the processor’s assistance with compliance with Articles 33 to
36 GDPR. As a consequence, the Board recommends that clause 28 refer to clause 12 (rather than 13),
and to redraft the clause to ensure closer consistency with the relevant provisions of the GDPR. The
clause could be redrafted, for instance, as follows:

“In addition to the Data Processor’s duty to assist the Data Controller in accordance with paragraph
12 hereof, the Data Processor, taking into account the nature of processing and information available
to the Data Processor, shall also assist the Data Controller in ensuring compliance with:
28.1    the Data Controller’s obligation to, without undue delay and where feasible, [...];
28.2 the Data Controller’s obligation to notify without undue delay [...]
28.3 the Data Controller’s obligation to carry out a data protection impact assessment [...] where a
type  of  processing  is  likely  to  result  in  a  high  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons.
28.4 the Data Controller’s obligation to consult the competent supervisory authority [...] if the data
protection impact assessment indicates that processing of data would result in high risk if the Data
Controller fails to take measures to mitigate the risk”.

2.2.9 Notification of personal data breach (Chapter VIII of the SCCs)

38.

39.

40.

Clause 30 of the SCCs, second sentence, recommends to the Parties to select a number of hours by
which the processor shall notify a data breach which does not exceed 24 hours from the moment of
becoming aware of the personal data breach. Such delay may be short in some situations and may
also trigger confusion with the delay by which the controller has to notify the personal data breach to
the SA. While taking into account the requirement for the processor to notify the controller “without
undue delay” after becoming aware of the personal data breach in accordance with Article 33.2 GDPR,
the Board recommends the LT SA to delete the sentence recommending that the timeframe (which
anyways starts from the moment of becoming aware of the personal data breach - the word “breach”
is missing) should not exceed 24 hours and allow the parties to choose the appropriate timeframe.
Additionally, the Board recommends the deletion of “If possible” from the second sentence of clause
30 taking into account that a processor has in any event an obligation to proceed to such notification
(Article  33.2  GDPR)  and to  avoid  giving  rise  to  situations  where  the  processor  may  argue  it  was
“impossible” to notify the controller concerning the data breach within the agreed timeframe.

Regarding clause 31.4 of the SCCs, the Board encourages the LT SA to refer to the “request of the
competent supervisory authority” instead of the “letters of the competent supervisory authority”, since
a supervisory authority might request information by means other than letters.

Regarding clause 32 of the SCCs, pertaining to the obligation of the processor to notify additional
information in case it fails to provide all information on the occasion of the first notification, the Board
recommends that the LT SA remove the reference to 24 hours. Instead, it should be made clear that
this information  must  be provided “without undue further  delay” (instead  of  “immediately”) in
accordance with the controller’s obligation under Article 33(4) GDPR.

10

Adopted

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

2.2.10 Erasure and return of data (Chapter IX of the SCCs)

Regarding clause 34 of  the SCCs, the  Board recommends that the  LT  SA  specify  that the options
provided by this clause are left “at the choice of the controller” in order to more closely match the
wording  of  Article  28(3)(g)  GDPR.  In  addition,  the  Board suggests replacing “confirm” by
“demonstrate”. Thirdly, the Board recommends clarifying that the deletion of existing copies must be
carried out “in any event” (the sentence could be thus rephrased as “[...] and in any event delete the
existing copies unless [...]”). Finally, the Board recommends that the LT SA detail in the clause itself
that the controller should be able to modify the choice made at the time of signature of the contract
throughout the life cycle of the contract and upon its termination.

2.2.11 Control of the data processor / Audit and inspection (Chapter X of the SCCs)

The Board understands that the Chapter X is referring to Article 28(3)(h) GDPR. The Board therefore
encourages the LT SA, for purposes of clarification about the content of this Chapter, to rephrase the
title of Chapter X as follows: “Audit and inspection of the data processor”.
Regarding clause 37 of the SCCs, the Board encourages the LT SA, for the sake of consistency with the
GDPR, to slightly rephrase this clause to align it with the terminology of Article 28(3)(h) GDPR: “The
Data Processor shall make available the Data Controller with all information necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the obligation set out in Article 28 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the Agreement
and enable and assist the Data Controller or another auditor mandated by the Data Controller to carry
out an audit including on-the-spot inspections”.
Regarding clause 39 of the SCCs, the Board is of the opinion that the wording “physical means” might
be  misleading.  The  Board therefore encourages the  LT  SA to  rather  refer  to “physical facilities”.
Further, it may be advisable to specify within the SCCs that the controller and processor commit to
cooperating  with the  Supervisory  Authority,  including  by  making  available  to  the  authority  upon
request information aimed to demonstrate compliance, including the results of audits and inspections.

2.2.12 Final provisions (Chapter XI of the SCCs)

Regarding clause 44 of the SCCs, the Board encourages the LT SA to clarify the terms “materially or
regularly breaches the Agreement” in order to avoid any confusion as to their interpretation by the
Parties. In addition to the termination provisions of clause 44, the Board recommends that the SCCs
include the possibility for the controller to terminate the SCCs where the clauses have been suspended
in accordance with clause 43 of the SCCs and where compliance has not been restored within a certain
amount of time to be determined by the Parties.

2.2.13 Annex 1

46. While noting that Annex 1 aims at providing details about the processing activities undertaken by the
processor  on  behalf  of  the  controller,  the  Board  recalls  that  the  processing  activities  should  be
described by the parties in the most detailed manner possible. Consequently, the Board welcomes the
examples provided by the LT SA to illustrate the possible content of the sections of the Appendix as
they are able to guide the parties’ description.

47.

The Board is nonetheless of the opinion that slight clarifications can be made on the level of detail
expected in the Annex 1. The Board therefore encourages the LT SA to refer to “processing activities”

11

Adopted

instead of “processing operations” in point 1 of the Annex 1, as well was to “types of personal data”
instead of “personal data” in point 1.3 of the Annex 1.

2.2.14 Annex 2

48.

Regarding point 1 of Annex 2, the Board welcomes the inclusion of a table guiding the Parties in the
description of authorised sub-processors as provided for in Chapter V of the SCCs.

49. With regard to point 2 of Annex 2 on prior notification for granting permission to new sub-processors,
the Board encourages the LT SA to clarify that this point refers to new sub-processors, not already
listed in the previous point. Also, the Board is of the opinion that the first sentence in its current form
may be interpreted as contradicting clauses 16.1 and 16.2 which require that a specific period is set,
and recommends that the LT SA rephrase the first sentence in order to guarantee that both the period
of prior notification and the related terms and conditions are provided by the Parties: “Please specify
the periods of a prior notification of granting permission to the sub-processors and other related terms
and conditions”.

2.2.15 Annex 3

50.

51.

52.

Regarding Annex 3 of the SCCs, the Board is of the opinion that several sentences might be rephrased
in order to avoid any confusion as to what it is expected to be filled in by the Parties. The Board
therefore encourages the LT SA to refer to “’the  processing  entrusted” instead of “the  processing
assigned” (point 1), to “elements” instead of “lots” (point 2), to “communication of the data” instead
of “transfer of the data”(point 2), to “demonstrate the fact of erasure” instead of “prove the fact of
erasure” (point 4), to “data  processing  location” instead  of “data  processing  place” (point  5) to
“information” instead  of “familiarisation” (points  7  and  8),  and  to “physical  facilities” instead  of
“physical measures” (points 7 and 8).

As a general remark with respect to point 2 of Annex 3, relating to Security of Processing, the Board
recalls that the degree of detail of the information provided therein must be such as to enable the
controller to assess the appropriateness of the measures, in order to comply with its obligation of
accountability. Also, a suggestion for the parties to include a description of the measures for the
protection of software applications used to process personal data could be useful.
Regarding point 3 of Annex 3 related to the Assistance to Data Controller, the Board is of the opinion
that the annex should include the steps to be taken by the processor and the procedure to be followed
in providing assistance to the controller with regard to both Article 28(3)(e) and 28(3)(f) GDPR. For
example, with regard to the obligation of assistance under Article 28(3)(e) GDPR, it has to be clear in
the SCCs whether the data processor is expected to have any contact with the data subjects, and how
the processor needs to inform the controller when it comes to data subjects’ rights (e.g. forwarding
the request to the controller within a specified timeframe or other appropriate measures). In this case,
the assistance is provided only through an exchange of information between the controller and the
processor. Another scenario could be that the controller instructs the processor to answer to data
subject’s requests according to instructions given. Another option could be that the processor would
make the technical implementations instructed by the controller with respect to data subject rights.
The  Board suggests that  the  LT  SA  gives examples  of  organisational  measures under  which the
cooperation of the processor might be provided in order to indicate the level of detail expected to be
filled in by the Parties in Annex 3.

12

Adopted

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

The Board also notes that points 7 and 8 of the Annex 3 state that where the controller carry out a
physical examination/on-spot inspection of the processor and sub-processor, it shall bear the costs.
As to the issue of allocation of costs between a controller and a processor is not regulated by the
GDPR, the Board consequently encourages the LT SA to remove any reference to the costs from these
clauses.

3 CONCLUSIONS

The Board very much welcomes the Lithuanian SA’s initiative to submit its draft SCCs for an opinion
which aims at contributing to a harmonised implementation of the GDPR.

The Board is of the opinion that the draft SCCs of the Lithuanian Supervisory Authority submitted for
an opinion need some further adjustments in order to be considered as standard contractual clauses.
If all recommendations listed in this Opinion are implemented, the LT SA will be able to use this draft
agreement as Standard Contractual Clauses pursuant to Article 28(8) GDPR without any need for a
subsequent adoption from the EU Commission.

4 FINAL REMARKS

This opinion is addressed to the Lithuanian Valstybinė duomenų apsaugos inspekcija (the Lithuanian
Supervisory Authority) and will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the supervisory authority shall communicate to the Chair by
electronic means, within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its
draft SCCs. Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft SCCs or, alternatively, the
relevant  grounds  for  which  it  does  not  intend  to  follow  this  opinion,  in  whole  or in  part. The
supervisory authority shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of
decisions which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with Article 70(1)(y)
GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

13

