
On the occasion of Safer Internet Day, February 7, 2023, which is normally celebrated every year, on the second day of the second week of February, the association Collaborators in Learning, CARNET and National CERT with partners, including the Personal Data Protection Agency, organized this year are the all-day online conference "The Search for a Better Internet". The goal is to send a strong message about the importance of preventing electronic violence, protecting children's personal data, creating a safe virtual environment and the availability of quality Internet content for children and young people.
The importance of protecting children's personal data is also recognized by the General Data Protection Regulation, which stipulates that children deserve special protection with regard to their personal data, since they may be less aware of the risks, consequences and protective measures in question, as well as their rights in connection with the processing of personal data. Exactly on the topic "Does everyone need to know who you are? Protect your virtual identity!" the lecture was held by the representative of the Personal Data Protection Agency, Anamarija Mladinić, head of the Service for legal advice, cooperation and projects. Namely, the majority of users, especially children, do not read the privacy policies on websites and social networks and accept all cookies in order to use the services without interruption, without sufficient awareness of how this personal data is further used and how large technology companies make profits thanks to personal data .
Therefore, the representative of AZOP explained why it is important to carefully read the notices about which cookies the sites use and for what purposes, because many Internet sites use marketing cookies to display targeted ads and share personal data with third parties and thus earn money. It is electronic tools (cookies, social plug-ins, tracking pixels) that monitor browsing habits, what the user indicates with "likes" and social interactions on the Internet in order to create a profile of the user, and then these profiles are used to adapt ads to the specific interests of the user, that is, for targeted advertising. However, from the point of view of personal data protection, there are many risks associated with possible insufficient transparency and user control over data, because the processing of personal data on the basis of which targeted messages are displayed is often non-transparent for the individual whose data is being processed.
Also, the representative of the Agency touched on the dangers that lurk on the Internet and that affect not only children, but also adults, such as identity theft, malicious software, phishing, electronic violence, hate speech, and the like. Therefore, in order to protect children from all the dangers that lurk and create a safe virtual environment, awareness and education of both children and adults is needed because, as could be heard during the presentation, the biggest violators of children's rights to the protection of personal data are social networks, and parents themselves who publish personal data of their own and other children's children on the Internet and in the media, contrary to the best interests of the child (sharenting).
In the final part of the lecture, the representative of the Agency spoke about the rights of children, which are guaranteed by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and which apply to citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as to all citizens of the European Union. Let's not forget, all children have their own legal rights, separate from their parents/guardians, and this includes the right to data protection.
The Associates in Learning Association has been implementing various programs to raise awareness of appropriate, responsible and safe use of the Internet since 2008, and the Be an Internet Genius program consists of various activities that build on the Be an Internet Genius curriculum, the Interland game, and a series of educational content that were prepared by the association's mentors for Croatia. "Every school year, workshops for teachers are held, either live in schools, or online in the form of webinars and courses, which show teachers how they can implement these educational contents and activities in their schools," said Lidija Kralj, head of development in the association. Collaborators in learning.
Also, this year, on the occasion of Safer Internet Day, the Learning Collaborators Association has prepared a theater play called Internet Geniuses, which will premiere on Thursday, February 9, 2023 at the Trešnja theater (Moščenićka 1, Zagreb) starting at 6 p.m. The show is designed for children from 8 to 12 years old, but it will be interesting for both younger and older children.
AZOP educational materials on the topic of personal data protection:
How to protect personal data of children and school employees
Children and young people in the world of modern technologies
How to protect your personal information online
Citizens, know your rights








































