THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

February 27, 2020

 

 

  The draft of the Federal Ministry of Health for patient data

Protection Act (PDSG) does not keep what its name promises

 

On January 30, 2020, the Federal Minister of Health, Jens Spahn, presented the

Draft law on the protection of electronic patient data in telematics

technical infrastructure: the so-called "Patient Data Protection Act" (PDSG). the

draft law had become necessary because the

Ministry of Health (BMG) for the Digital Health Care Act (DGV)

new regulations to revive the project of an electronic patient

duck file (ePA) in the Federal Ministry of Justice (BMJ) due to data protection

deficiencies had encountered resistance. Spahn had therefore decided that

corresponding regulations from the DVG and – revised – into one

own data protection law. There are now more to come

Measures to promote digitization in the healthcare system are underway

to be brought.

 

For a comment on the 141-page draft regulation, which is

numerous changes alone, 87(!) paragraphs on data protection in addition to the

Fifth book of the Social Security Code, continued the Federal Ministry of Health

(BMG) gave the federal states a short deadline of February 25, 2020. Thankfully

the state government obtained our expertise for its statement.

 

It became apparent that the haste shown by the Federal Ministry of Health

um which is not conducive to patient privacy. The draft now presented

does not do justice to the designation as "Patient Data Protection Act" and remains so

fundamentally in need of revision:

 
 

 

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -



In particular, the data protection responsibility for the processing

processing of data in the telematics infrastructure is regulated in an unclear manner and

to the detriment of the patient in such a way that the effective

enforcement of the rights of the data subject is often made impossible. Thieves-

data subject-friendly solution of the conference of independent data protection

supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) of September 12, 2019,

the data protection responsibility within the telematics

Infrastructure in overlapping areas as a shared responsibility

of several participants is not even mentioned in the reasons

of the draft under consideration. In addition, intended for the construction

the telematics infrastructure company responsible for telematics –

according to the assessment of the DSK - from any data protection

be free to answer.

 

 The rights of data subjects from Articles 12 to 22 of the General Data Protection Regulation

are also committed to the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation

the limited.

 

 Health insurance companies should henceforth be entitled to “additional” data from your insurance

to process. That means nothing more than a free ticket

for health insurance companies, the coveted health data of their customers e.g

to process fitness trackers or wearables. This will make a for insured

dangerous path taken.

 

 Contrary to European guidelines, insured persons are asked to

"release" related data as "data donation for research" without

that the prerequisites for voluntary and informed consent are

be created. Also, the insured can use their once released

Data not - as provided for by the General Data Protection Regulation - through

revocation of their consent from the large pot of the so-called research

retrieve data center. Although the data donation was expressly "for research

research purposes” is to take place, the draft regulation enables use

This data is also used for non-research purposes such as the perception of

"Control tasks" or the support of political decision-making

process in the field of statutory health insurance.

 

 

 

 

- 3 -

 In addition, the bill still has many technical errors, for example

by using indefinite or inappropriate terms or new regulations

be arranged unsystematically.

 

"It is to be welcomed that the health care system is improving through the expansion of tele-

matic infrastructure is promoted. However, data protection, na-

mentally the protection of highly sensitive health data, not to be left behind

ben", explains the state representative for data protection, Dr. Stefan Brink. "That

Last but not least, it harms the acceptance of digitization in the healthcare sector

is of enormous importance.” It is to be hoped that the February 27, 2020

announced departmental vote on the draft law on the necessary

make revisions.

 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716.

 

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.
 
Related Links:
https://www.bundesgesundheitsministerium.de/fileadmin/Aktien/3_Downloads/Geset
ze_und_regulations/GuV/P/draft_patient data-
Protection Act__PDSG.pdf
 
https://www.bundesgesundheitsministerium.de/presse/pressemitteilungen/2019/4-
quarterly/new regulations-health-and-care.html
 
https://www.bfdi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Publikationen/Entschlussungssammlung/DSK
Decisions position papers/Sep19_Beschluss_zur_gematik.html
 
https://www.aok-bv.de/background/gesetze/index.html

 

 

