1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00034/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on October 5, 2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that they have published on the bulletin board
of the community of owners claimed the personal identification data of the
claimant (name, surnames, floor and door) associated with a debt contracted with the
community, indicating the economic amount owed.

The claimant considers the president of the community responsible, for being the one who has
the key to the board and for not withdrawing the publication of their data after being notified of the
possible infringement of the data protection regulations that it supposes, but this
has declined all responsibility saying that the lock on the plank is open and that
unknown who has placed the document there.

Together with the claim, the claimant, in addition to a photograph of the bulletin board of
the community, where the document is displayed showing the personal data of the
claimant, as the only debtor of the entire building, provides a judgment of the Court of Lo
Penalty no. 12 of Malaga dated 11/20/2017 convicting his partner of a crime of
mistreatment, to prove that she is a victim of gender-based violence and that therefore her data
personal should be treated with special protection.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On November 17 and 27, 2019, the claim was transferred to the entity claimed.
submitted by the claimant, for its analysis as well as for it to inform this
Agency as to whether the claimant had been contacted, and the decision
taken in this regard to resolve the situation.

The respondent has not responded to any of the requests made by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency.

THIRD: On March 10, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations on May 25, 2020, in which, in summary, it stated that “the
previous administrator posted a list on the bulletin board with the debt of the
plaintiff by refusing to collect notification in which he was notified
that his debt would be registered in the property registry so that it would remain
recognized the same.

Said neighbor has 2 lawsuits filed and has never collected any notification.

Minutes of November 2015 are attached where all the steps that have been taken appear.
tried the former administrators regarding the communication of the debt to
said neighbor.

Also attached is the Minutes of the previous Administrator, Mr. Antonio Flores Palomo, where
This fact is collected (register the debt in the registry) and Minutes with my appointment on
October 4, 2019. The community documentation is delivered to me at the end of
October.

I enclose a signed document with the collection of community documentation.”

Said record indicates the name and surnames of the claimant, as well as that she has a
debt of €3,542.27.

FIFTH: On June 22, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/10284/2019, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SEX
 TO: On July 1, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing to sanction COMUNIDAD DE PROPIETARIOS R.R.R., with NIF
***NIF.1, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5
of the RGPD, a fine of €10,000 (ten thousand euros)

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding and of the

documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: They have been published on the notice board of the community of owners
claimed the personal identification data of the claimant (name, surnames,
floor and door) associated with a debt contracted with the community, indicating
of the financial amount owed.

the community of neighbors claimed, states that the previous
SECOND:
administrator posted a list on the bulletin board with the person's debt
plaintiff by refusing to collect notification in which he was notified that he was leaving
to register his debt in the property registry so that the debt would be recognized.
same.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

Yo

The Director of the Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Spanish Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the
RGPD and in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.
II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow considering

lawful processing of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; personal data may be kept for longer periods
provided that they are treated exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with article
89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the conservation period");

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided for in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

Although it is true that if the respondent is unaware of the restraining order of the
claimant, you cannot take special precautions with your data, however, it is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

You must take into account that for the display of personal data on the board
of announcements of the Community, has to adjust to a series of principles in order to
not violate the data protection regulations.

As a means of personal and individualized notification to the owner, the Law of
Horizontal Property, indicates the assumptions in which the exposure of data is authorized
of a personal nature related to matters arising from the management of the
Community of owners. Its article 9. h) indicates as an obligation of the owner
“Communicate whoever exercises the functions of secretary of the community, for any
medium that allows proof of receipt, the address in Spain for the purposes
of citations and notifications of all kinds related to the community. In
defect of this communication will be taken by domicile for citations and notifications
the apartment or premises belonging to the community, having full legal effects
delivered to the occupant. If a summons or notification to the
owner is impossible to practice it in the place provided for in the preceding paragraph,
shall be understood to be carried out by placing the corresponding communication in the
community bulletin board, or in a visible place of general use enabled by
effect, with expressive diligence of the date and reasons why this is done.
form of notification, signed by the person who exercises the functions of Secretary of the
community, with the approval of the President. Notification made in this way
It will produce full legal effects within three calendar days.

Article 19.3 of the LPH, second paragraph, states: "The minutes of the meetings shall be
will send to the owners in accordance with the procedure established in article
9.”

According to the available evidence, it is considered
proven public exposure of a document on the bulletin board of the aforementioned
community, showing the personal data of the claimant, and therefore it is understood
that the claimed entity has violated article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs the
principles of integrity and confidentiality of personal data, as well as the
proactive responsibility of the controller to demonstrate its
compliance".

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

v

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum.
or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional negligent action, but significant

active (article 83.2 b)

 Basic personal identifiers are affected, according to the article

83.2g)

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the COMMUNITY OF PROPRIETORS R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1,
for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
in relation to article 72.1 a) a fine of €10,000 (TEN THOUSAND euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
R.R.R.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

