1/12

 File No.: PS/00180/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 7, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against TELEFÓNICA
MOBILE SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement
which is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00180/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated December 11, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A78923125 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The claimant states that the respondent continues to use his number
phone ***PHONE.1, accessing your employees to your customer profile, without your

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

consent, to carry out tests in its Call Centers and stores. In fact,
states that, in two days, he has received a total of 247 calls from number 1004,
despite the fact that in previous claims the respondent claimed to have implemented
new security measures so that it does not happen again.

On April 10, 2021, the claimant expands his claim stating
that he continues to receive calls from the claimed party, but in this case from the number 1002
(to move)

Provides as proof of your claim, the SMS received and the calls from the

1002 and 1004.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of the LOPGDD, which has provided for a
mechanism prior to the admission to processing of the claims that are formulated before
the AEPD, consisting of transferring them to the Data Protection Delegates
designated by those responsible or in charge of the treatment, for the purposes foreseen
in article 37 of the aforementioned rule, or to these when they were not designated, it was given
transfer of the claim to the claimed entity so that it proceeded to its analysis and
respond to the complaining party and to this Agency within a month.

As a result of this procedure, on March 30, 2021, the claimed
has stated that a written response has been sent to the claimant, in which
shows that "new control measures have been implemented,
maintaining in force and reinforcing the measures that had already been adopted
above regarding the use of ***PHONE.1" numbering.

A copy of the letter sent to the claimant is attached.

On the other hand, it indicates that the claimant exercised his right of access, which

was answered by letter on April 10, 2017.

Next, they state: “that he has analyzed the record of the calls
provided by the claimant in this file, and notes that, after confirming
receipt of these, it has been detected that by mistake the claimant and his

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

numbering in a campaign organized by our company in order to
verify the existence of technical breakdowns that customers may suffer.

Although security and control measures have been taken on the use of
this numbering since 2014, they have been strengthened and implemented
two new measures:

On the one hand, and by verifying that these calls were made by a campaign
resolution of technical incidents, our team has proceeded to exclude the
numbering of the mentioned campaigns.

Additionally, a direct blocking measure has been taken in the
the aforementioned numbering so that, at the time a new
campaign with similar characteristics, the numbering is identified and
automatically excluded.

On the other hand, a fortnightly check will be carried out on all our
customer databases to confirm that all measures applied since the
year 2014, are applied correctly.

Lastly, despite the fact that the claimant in his brief when referring to “the
black list” in which you have entered the Telefónica numbers, in the
moment when one of our agents tries to contact the
numbering ***PHONE.1, and even though it is blocked by the client,
our agent does not appear any warning, alarm or similar that indicates this
situation, therefore, the calls continue to be issued.

After receiving the last claim from the client, the operation has been strengthened to the
when establishing and preparing communication campaigns for clients, inhibiting
this number automatically so that it cannot be included as a recipient in
no case in those communications; and checks will be carried out on a regular basis.
in order to check that our agents comply with all the measures established by
the company".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

 

THIRD: The result of the transfer process initiated in the previous event does not
made it possible to understand the claims of the claimant satisfied. Consequently, with
dated April 21, 2021, for the purposes provided in article 64.2 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of the
Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

5/12

with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

a) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it carried out the treatment of the
personal data of the claimant without having any legitimacy to do so.

The respondent has acknowledged said error and has indicated that it has analyzed the
record of the calls provided by the claimant in this file, and
notes that, after confirming receipt of these, it has been detected that by mistake
included the claimant and his number in a campaign organized by the claimed
in order to verify the existence of technical breakdowns that could be suffered by the
customers.

Likewise, it states that after receiving the last claim from the client, it has
strengthened the operation at the time of establishing and preparing the campaigns of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

communications to clients, inhibiting this number automatically so that they do not
may be included as a recipient in any case in those communications; and that
will carry out controls periodically in order to check that their agents
They comply with all the measures established by the company.

However, despite stating the claimed in previous claims
have implemented new security measures so that it does not happen again. This
Of course, the 1002 and 1004 calls continue to occur. Therefore, it
is producing the treatment of the personal data of the claimant without basis
legitimizing.

 

IV

        The determination of the sanction to be imposed in this case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

          “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.” (The underlining is from the AEPD)

In order to specify the amount of the sanction to be imposed on the one claimed by
violation of article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, it is essential to examine and assess whether
the circumstances described in article 83.2 of the RGPD concur and if they intervene
mitigating or aggravating the responsibility of the responsible entity.

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to be imposed
in the present case, the party claimed is considered responsible for an infringement
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, in an initial assessment, concurrent
the following factors.

As aggravating the following:

- In the present case we are facing a negligent action on significant data that

allow the identification of a person (article 83.2 b).

- Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, a number of

identification, the line identifier) (article 83.2 g).
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

- Section k), in relation to article 76.2 of Organic Law 3/2018, in which
frames as an aggravating circumstance the continuous nature of the infraction attributed to the
claimed.

- The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
processing of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2 K, of the
RGPD in relation to article 76.2 b, of the LOPDGDD).

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on the person claimed and

set it at the amount of €75,000 for the infringement of article 6 of the RGPD.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.

START SANCTION PROCEDURE against TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES
ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A78923125, for the alleged infringement of article 6
of the RGPD typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

2. APPOINT D.B.B.B. as instructor. and as secretary to Ms. C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with
what is established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, of
Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

3.

INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, the
information requirements that the General Subdirectorate of Inspection of
Data sent to the entity claimed in the preliminary investigation phase and its
respective acknowledgments of receipt.

4. THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1
bre, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

the corresponding sanction would be 75,000 euros (seventy-five thousand
euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

5. NOTIFY this agreement to TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U.,
with NIF A78923125, granting a hearing period of ten business days
to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate.
nients. In your brief of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at 60,000 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 60,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 45,000 euros.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts

indicated above, 60,000 euros or 45,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On July 7, 2021, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 45,000 euros making use of the two reductions
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST: By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed
against said Regulation; violations of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of 9
May, General de Telecomunicaciones (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the
provided in article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles
38.3 c), d) and i) and 38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the
information society and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), according to
Article 43.1 of said Law provides.

SECOND: Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP),
under the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the
Next:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00180/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA,
S.A.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-280621

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

