15.06.2023
Penalty for GDPR violation
The National Supervisory Authority completed, in May 2023, an investigation at the operator Artima S.A. and found a violation of the provisions of art. 32 para. (1) lit. b) and art. 32 para. (2) and para. (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
As such, the operator was fined in the amount of 39,712 lei (equivalent to 8,000 EURO).
The investigation was initiated as a result of a personal data breach notification.
During the investigation, it turned out that employees of the operator accessed the video surveillance system and filmed with their personal mobile phone the monitor on which the system's recordings were playing. Later, one of the employees sent the images to a third person (outside the operator), and those images were posted by that person on Facebook.
The National Supervisory Authority found that Artima S.A. has not implemented adequate technical and organizational measures in order to ensure a level of security corresponding to the risk of processing, generated, in particular, accidentally or illegally, by the destruction, loss, modification, unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized access to the stored personal data or processed in another way.
Through the incident, the image of a natural person, the registration number, the color and the brand of the vehicle were revealed, which led to the loss of the confidentiality of personal data, caused by the violation of Artima S.A.'s internal procedures.
We emphasize that the operator had the obligation to take measures to ensure that any natural person who acts under the authority of the operator and who has access to personal data only processes them at the request of the operator.
At the same time, during the investigation, pursuant to art. 58 para. (2) lit. d) from Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the operator was also applied the corrective measure to implement a solution to monitor the application of work procedures already put into practice to avoid similar security incidents.
Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P