 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  15/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authorities  of  Germany  regarding  the  approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

 

 

Adopted 

Adopted on 25 May 2020 

 

 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ............................................................................................................... 4 

ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4 

2.1 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ................................ 4 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 

2.2.1 

PREFIX .............................................................................................................................. 6 

2.2.2 

TERMS AND DEFINITIONS ................................................................................................ 6 

2.2.3 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 6 

2.2.4 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR  ACCREDITATION (Chapter 4 of the draft accreditation 
requirements) ................................................................................................................................. 7 

2.2.5 

RESOURCES REQUIREMENTS (Chapter 6 of the draft accreditation requirements) ....... 8 

2.2.6 

PROCESS REQUIREMENTS (Chapter 7 of the draft accreditation requirements)............ 9 

2.2.7 

FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS ........................................................................11 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS.........................................................................................11 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................12 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1)  The  main  role  of  the  Board  is  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  Regulation  2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by  encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines 4/2018 on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a 
template provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and 
the EDPB guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

(2) With reference to Article 43 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt accreditation 
requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow generation of 
trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3)  While  requirements  for  accreditation  are  subject  to  the  consistency  mechanism,  this  does  not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679)”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  and  “Guidelines  1/2018  on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority,  the  supervisory  authority  should  establish  accreditation  requirements  including,  but  not 

 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted 

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should  be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision  of  the  Chair,  this  period  may  be  extended  by  a  further  six  weeks  taking  into  account  the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

The German Supervisory  Authorities of the  Federation  and the Länder (hereinafter  “DE SAs”) have 
submitted  its  draft  accreditation  requirements  under  Article  43  (1)(b)  to  the  EDPB.  The  file  was 
deemed  complete  on  13  February  2020.  The  DE  national  accreditation  body  (NAB),  DAkkS,  will 
perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify using GDPR certification criteria. This means 
that the NAB will use ISO 17065 and the additional requirements set up by the DE SAs, once they are 
approved by the DE SAs, following an opinion from the Board on the draft requirements, to accredit 
certification bodies. 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 

3. 

The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the DE SAs have decided to 
resort to joint accreditation by their national accreditation body (NAB), the DAkkS, and the competent 

 

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en    

Available 

par. 

39. 

at: 

Adopted 

4 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

SA, for the issuance of accreditation, having put together additional requirements in accordance with 
the Guidelines, which should be used when issuing accreditation.  

This assessment of DE SAs’ additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 
Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SAs  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SAs’ context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs and the competent SAs, when applicable, when defining certain specific provisions within the 
applicable  accreditation  requirements.  However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that, 
where any additional requirements are established, they should be defined in a way that enables their 
practical, consistent application and review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore it  will not make reference to the text of  the related document in this Opinion. As a 
result,  the  Board  decided  to,  where  relevant,  point  towards  specific  sections  of  the  ISO  Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the DE 
SAs’ draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and 
not asking the DE SAs to take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the  DE SAs, which are outside the scope of 
article  43  (2)  GDPR,  such  as  references  to  national  legislation.  The  Board  nevertheless  notes  that 
national legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

1)  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

2)  independence of the certification body 

3)  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

4)  expertise of the certification body 

5)  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

6)  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

5 

Adopted 

7)  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

10. 

a.  Article  43  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  certification  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article  64  (1)  (c)  GDPR  provides  that  the  Board  shall  issue  an  opinion  where  a  supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  PREFIX  

11. 

12. 

The Board acknowledges the fact that  terms of cooperation, regulating the relationship between a 
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for 
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and 
transparency,  the  Board  considers  that  such  terms  of  cooperation,  where  existing,  shall  be  made 
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.  

2.2.2  TERMS AND DEFINITIONS 

The Board notes that Chapter 3 (“Definitions”) of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements defines 
what types of certification schemes are allowed, specifying that they must meet the requirements of 
DIN EN ISO/IEC 17065. In this regard, it should be pointed out that Sections 5.1 and 5.2 of the EDPB 
Guidelines  spell  out  already  what  can  be  certified  under  the  GDPR  in  a  comprehensive  manner. 
Therefore, the Board acknowledges that the intent of the  DE SAs is not to limit what stated in the 
Guidelines  and  that  the  assertions  contained  in  Chapter  3  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation 
requirements are to be considered applicable in the context of these accreditation requirements. 

2.2.3  GENERAL REMARKS 

13. 

The Board notes that the “general notes” section of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements refer 
to the “authorization” of the certification criteria by the EDPB “in accordance with Art. 63, 64(1)(c) 

6 

Adopted 

GDPR”.  The  Board  notes  that  the  GDPR  does  not  give  the  EDPB  the  competence  to  “authorise” 
certification  criteria.  However,  according  to  the  above-mentioned  articles,  the  EDPB  can  approve 
certification  criteria.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  the  DE  SAs  to  delete  the  reference  to 
“authorisation by the EDPB”, in order to put the draft in line with the wording of the GDPR.  

2.2.4  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION (Chapter 4 of the draft accreditation 

requirements) 

14.  Concerning  the  requirement  of  legal  responsibility  (section  4.1  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation 
requirements), the Board notes that, in the supporting document, the DE SAs explain that there is an 
expectation for the certification body to have up to date procedures and, therefore, there’s no need 
to add further requirements on that regard. However, the Board considers that an expectation does 
not bind certification bodies to have such procedures. As established in section 4.1.1 of the Annex to 
the Guidelines, certification bodies shall have up to date procedures that demonstrate compliance 
with the legal responsibilities set out in the terms of accreditation.  Moreover, the certification body 
shall be able to demonstrate evidence of GDPR compliant procedures and measures specifically for 
controlling  and  handling  of  client  organisation’s  personal  data  as  part  of  the  certification  process. 
Therefore, the Board recommends the DE SAs to amend the draft requirements in order to align them 
with the Guidelines.  

15.  Regarding  subsection  4.1.2.2  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“certification 
agreement”), the Board notes that the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements do not include the 
obligation to allow full transparency to the competent SA with respect to the certification procedure, 
including contractually confidential matters. In addition, there is no reference to the obligation of the 
applicant to provide the certification body with access to its processing activities. Therefore, the Board 
recommends the DE SAs to include the abovementioned obligations in their draft.   

16. 

The  Board  observes  that  the  explicit  reference  to  the  tasks  and  powers  of  the  competent  SA  (3rd 
indent  in  section  4.1.2  of  the  Annex)  is  not  included  in  subsection  4.1.2.2  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft 
accreditation requirements.  The Board is of the opinion that this reference should be added in the 
draft requirements and, therefore, it recommends the DE SAs to amend the draft accordingly.  

17.  Moreover, the DE SAs’ draft requirements regarding the certification agreement do not include the 
obligation to allow the certification body to disclose all information necessary for granting certification 
pursuant to Articles 42(8) and 43(5) GDPR (7th indent in section 4.1.2 of the Annex). Even though that 
obligation  is  included  in  the  process  management  section  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation 
requirements, the Board considers that it should be part of the certification agreement, in order to 
strengthen  its  binding  nature.  Thereby,  the  Board  recommends  the  DE  SAs  to  include  the 
abovementioned obligation as part of the elements of the certification agreement.   

18.  According to the Annex, the applicant has to inform the certification body of significant changes in its 
actual or legal situation and in its products, processes and services concerned by the certification (10th 
indent in section 4.1.2 of the Annex). However, in the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements, indent 
6  of  subsection  4.1.2.2  only  includes  the  obligation  to  inform  the  certification  body  of  significant 
changes in actual or legal circumstances, but it does not explicitly mention the products, processes 
and services. The Board recommends the DE SAs to include such reference, in line with the Annex. 

19.  With  regard  to  subsection  4.2.7  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“handling 
impartiality”),  the  Board  recommends  to  strengthen  the  criteria applicable  to  certification  bodies 

7 

Adopted 

which belong to or are controlled by a separated legal entity, so as to take into consideration that any 
type  of  economic  relation  between  the  certification  body  and  the  legal  entity,  depending  on  its 
features,  may affect the impartiality of its certification activities.   

20.  With  regard  to  section  4.6  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“publicly  accessible 
information”),  the  Board  notes  that  there  is  no  reference  to  the  publication  of  all  versions  of  the 
approved criteria and the  certification procedures. Therefore, the Board encourages the  DE SAs to 
amend the draft accreditation requirements in order to make explicit that the publication includes all 
versions of the approved criteria and the certification procedures. Additionally, the Board notes that 
the second paragraph of section 4.6 states that “the certification schemes used by the certification 
body  the  approved  criteria  in  accordance  with  Art.  42(5)  GDPR  stating  the  authorized  duration  of 
application, are to be generally published.” To avoid any ambiguity, the Board encourages the DE SAs 
to  delete  the  word  “generally”  and  to  include  an  “and”  between  “certification  body”  and  “the 
approved criteria”. 

2.2.5  RESOURCES REQUIREMENTS (Chapter 6 of the draft accreditation requirements) 

21.  Concerning  the  expertise  requirements  and  specifically,  subsection  6.1.2.1  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft 
accreditation  requirements  (“human  resources  competence”),  the  Board  notes  that  the  required 
knowledge in the listed areas does not specify that the knowledge shall be relevant and appropriate. 
In  order  to  ensure  consistency  with  the  level  of  expertise  required  in  the  Annex,  the  Board 
recommends the DE SAs to align the wording with the Guidelines, by requiring that the knowledge is 
relevant and appropriate.  

22.  Moreover, the Board notes that the requirements for personnel with technical expertise responsible 
for  decision  making  include  at  least  7  years  of  professional  experience  or  5  years  of  professional 
experience in technical data protection, depending on their level of education, whereas the personnel 
responsible for evaluations should have 4 years of professional experience or 2 years of professional 
experience in technical data protection and experience in the testing procedure, depending on their 
level of education. Similarly, personnel with legal expertise making decisions must have at least 5 years 
of professional experience in data protection law, whereas those in charge of evaluations must have 
at least 2 years of experience in data protection law and in the audit procedures. The Board notes that 
the required minimum years of professional experience between the personnel in charge of decision-
making  and  the  personnel  in  charge  of  evaluation  differ  significantly.  In  this  regard,  the  Board 
considers that the competence requirements for evaluators and decision-makers should be tailored 
taking  into  account  the  different  tasks  that  they  perform,  rather  than  the  number  of  years  of 
experience. The Board is of the opinion that evaluators should have a more specialist expertise and 
professional  experience  in  technical  procedures  (e.g.  audits  and  certifications),  whereas  decision-
makers should have a more general and comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data 
protection.  Considering  this,  the  Board  encourages  the  DE  SAs  to  make  more  emphasis  on  the 
different substantive knowledge and/or experience for evaluators and decision-makers and to reduce 
the divergences in the years of experience required for them.  

23.  Additionally,  the  Board  considers  that  the  knowledge  of  the  management  systems  relevant  to  the 
certification area should be extended to the ISO/IEC 27701:2019 - Security techniques – Extension to 
ISO/IEC 27001 and ISO/IEC 27002 for privacy information management – Requirements and guidelines 
and encourages the DE SAs to include such reference.   

8 

Adopted 

24. 

Finally, regarding the education requirements for the technical personnel, the Board considers that 
the list of subjects is already tailored to the technical expertise required by the Annex. Therefore, the 
Board encourages the DE SAs to delete the reference to “natural sciences” from the list of subjects 
regarding the university education of the technical personnel.  

2.2.6  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS (Chapter 7 of the draft accreditation requirements) 

25. 

The  Board  notes  that  Chapter  7  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation  requirements  makes  several 
reference  to  the  term  “its  criteria”  (e.g.  in  sections  7.4,  7.6,  7.11  and  7.13).  In  order  to  avoid  any 
ambiguity,  the  Board  encourages  the  DE  SAs  to  clarify  the  meaning  of  such  term,  for  example  by 
adding an explanation in Appendix 1 (Glossary).   

26.  Concerning section 7.1 of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements (“general information”), the 
Board notes that there is no explicit reference to the obligation of the certification body to comply 
with the additional requirements. Even though such obligation could be inferred from the text of the 
draft requirements, the Board considers that an explicit reference to the above-mentioned obligation 
should be included. Therefore, the Board recommends the DE SAs to amend the draft accordingly.   

27. 

28. 

The Board notes that the DE SAs’ draft additional requirements do not contain any reference to the 
operation of an approved European Data Protection Seal, as per section 7.1.2 of the Annex. The Board 
is of the opinion that this reference should be included, especially considering that accreditation of a 
certification body granting European Data Protection Seals may have to be carried out in each of the 
Members States where the certification body is established.3 Therefore, the Board recommends the 
DE SAs to include the above-mentioned reference. For example, the draft requirements could state 
the  following:  "The  competent  SA  shall  be  notified  before  a  certification  body  starts  operating  an 
approved European Data Protection Seal in a new Member State from a satellite office". 

The  Board  notes  that  in  section  7.2  (“application”),  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation  requirements 
foresee the situation in which processors are used to carry out data processing operations, in line with 
the  Annex  to  the  Guidelines.  However,  the  Board  notes  that,  when  processors  are  used,  the 
application  shall  contain  the  relevant  controller/processor  contract(s),  as  stated  in  the  Annex. 
Therefore, the Board recommends the DE SAs to align the wording to the guidelines by including the 
reference  to  the  controller/processor  contract(s).  Moreover,  the  Board  encourages  the  DE  SAs  to 
consider  whether  a  reference  to  joint  controllers  and  their  specific  arrangements  should  also  be 
mentioned in this case. 

29. 

The Board notes that section 7.2 of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements specifies that “the 
data controller and the processor are entitled to apply for certification”. The possibility for processors 
to apply for certification will depend on the specific certification scheme. Therefore, in order to avoid 
confusion,  the  Board  encourages  the  DE  SAs  to  delete  the  reference  above  or  to  clarify  that  the 
possibility for processors to be certified  will depend on the scope of the certification scheme.   

30.  With regard to section 7.3 of the DE SAs' draft accreditation requirements (“evaluation applications”), 
the Board notes that the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements state that “the planned evaluation 
methods are contractually stipulated [...]”. In order to make clear that this is a requirement, the Board 
encourages  the  DE  SAs  to  redraft  the  first  paragraph,  in  order  to  make  clear  that  the  evaluation 
methods shall be included in the certification agreement, -I.e. redraft the requirement as “the planed 

3 In this regard, see Guidelines 1/2018, paragraph 44. 

 

Adopted 

9 

evaluation methods shall be contractually stipulated [...]”. Additionally, the Board encourages the DE 
SAs to replace the reference to section 7.3.1.b of ISO 17065 with section 7.3 of ISO 17065, in order to 
align the wording with the  Annex.  Moreover, the Board observes that the  4th paragraph refers to 
appropriate technical and legal competences. For the sake of clarity, the Board encourages the DE SAs 
to add “in the field of data protection”.  

31. 

The  Board  observes  that  section  7.4  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“evaluation 
methods”) does not include the obligation of the certification body to describe sufficient evaluation 
methods for assessing the compliance of the processing operation(s) with the certification criteria. 
The  Board  recommends  the  DE  SAs  to  amend  the  draft  requirements  in  order  to  include  such 
reference.  An  example  could  be  to  add  the  following:  “The  certification  body  shall  ensure  that 
mechanisms used for granting certification describe sufficient evaluation methods for assessing the 
compliance of the processing operation(s) with the certification criteria”.Moreover, with regard to the 
first area that shall be covered in the evaluation methods, the Board considers that the necessity and 
proportionality shall be assessed also in relation to the data subjects concerned, where applicable. 
Finally, the Board notes that there is no reference to the documentation of methods and findings. 
Thus, the Board encourages the DE SAs to amend the draft and explicitly include such references. 

32. With regard to existing certifications (section 7.4 of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements), the 
Board  considers  that  the  4th  indent  in  page  13  leads  to  confusion,  since  it  is  unclear  what  is  the 
connection between the periods of validity of current and previous certification, and how they would 
fit in with one another. Additionally, it does not seem feasible to question the validity of certification 
previously issued by a different  accredited certification body. In sum, the paragraph would benefit 
from some clarity with regard to the relationship between the different elements mention. The Board 
recommends the DE SAs to amend the draft in particular by clarifying that the duration of validity of 
the GDPR certification must not be conditional upon the validity of other types of certifications.  

33.  Concerning  section  7.5  (“valuation”)  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board 

encourages the DE SAs to change the title of the section to “review”.  

34.  Regarding  the  changes  affecting  certification  (section  7.10  of  the  DE  SAs  draft  accreditation 
requirements), the Board notes that the DE SAs draft accreditation requirements establish that “the 
client is informed in a timely manner on changes to the legal framework which affect him”. Having in 
mind the need to preserve the impartiality of the certification body, the Board encourages the DE SAs 
to reformulate the sentence to make clear that the client is provided, in a timely manner, with general 
information on changes that might affect him. Additionally, in order to ensure a clear understanding 
of what is meant by “decisions of the European Data Protection Board”, the Board encourages the DE 
SAs to clarify the reference. An example could be to refer to “documents adopted by the European 
Data Protection Board”.  

35. 

The Board observes that section 7.11 of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements (“termination, 
restriction,  suspension  or  withdrawal  of  certification”)  does  not  contain  the  obligation  of  the 
certification  body  to  accept  decisions  and  orders  from  the  DE  SAs  to  withdraw  or  not  to  issue 
certification to an applicant if the requirements for certification are not or no longer met. Therefore, 
the Board recommends the DE SAs to include such obligation. Moreover, the Board encourages the 
DE SAs to replace the word “restriction” by “reduction” from the title of the section, in accordance 
with the Annex to the Guidelines.  

Adopted 

10 

2.2.7  FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS 

36.  With  regard  to  subsection  8.11.3  of  the  DE  SAs’  accreditation  requirements  (“complaint 
management”), the Board encourages the DE SAs to replace the reference to “justified complaints” 
by “substantiated complaints”, in order to provide more clarity.  

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

37. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the German Supervisory Authorities of the Federation and the 
Länder  may  lead  to  an  inconsistent  application  of  the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  and the 
following changes need to be made: 

38.  Regarding ‘general remarks’, the Board recommends that the DE SAs: 

1)  delete the reference to “authorisation by the EDPB”, in order to put the draft in line 

with the wording of the GDPR.  

39.  Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the DE SAs: 

1)  amend the requirements concerning the legal responsibility (subsection 4.1) in order 

to align them with the guidelines. 

2)  amend subsection 4.1.2.2 to include, in the certification agreement, the obligation to 
allow full transparency to the DE SAs with respect to the certification procedure and 
to provide the certification body with access to the applicant’s processing activities. 

3)  include,  in  subsection  4.1.2.2,  an  explicit  reference to  the  tasks  and  powers  of  the 

competent SA, in accordance with the Annex.  

4)  include, among the elements of the certification agreement, the obligation to allow 
the certification body to disclose all information necessary for granting certification 
pursuant to Articles 42(8) and 43(5) GDPR. 

5)  include  a  explicit  reference  to  “products,  processes  and  services  concerned  by  the 

certification” in indent 6 of subsection 4.1.2.2. 

6)  to strengthen, in subsection 4.2.7, the criteria applicable to certification bodies which 
belong to or are controlled by a separated legal entity, so as to take into consideration 
that any type of economic relation between the certification body and the legal entity, 
depending on its features,  may affect the impartiality of its certification activities. 

40.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’ the board recommends that the DE SAs: 

1)  align  the  wording  of  subsection  6.1.2.1  with  the  guidelines,  by    requiring  that  the 

knowledge is relevant and appropriate.  

41.  Regarding ‘process requirements’ the board recommends that the DE SAs: 

1)  amend section 7.1 to contain an explicit reference to the obligation of the certification 

body to comply with the additional requirements. 

11 

Adopted 

2)  include a reference to the operation of an approved European Data Protection Seal. 

3)  align the wording in section 7.2 to the guidelines by including the reference to the 

controller/ processor contract(s). 

4)  include  in  section  7.4  the  obligation  of  the certification  body  to  describe  sufficient 
evaluation methods for assessing the compliance of the processing operation(s) with 
the certification criteria. 

5)  clarify in section 7.4 that the duration of validity of the GDPR certification must not 

be conditional upon the validity of other types of certifications.   

6)  include in section 7.11 the obligation of the certification body to accept decisions and 
orders from the DE SAs to withdraw or not to issue certification to an applicant if the 
requirements for certification are no longer met. 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

42. 

This opinion is addressed to the German Supervisory Authorities of the Federation and the Länder and 
will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

43.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the DE SAs shall communicate to the Chair by electronic 
means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether they will amend or maintain their draft 
decision. Within the same period, they shall provide the amended draft decision or where they do not 
intend to follow the opinion of the Board, they shall provide the relevant grounds for which they do 
not intend to follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

44. 

The DE SAs shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions 
that have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

12 

