1/9

Procedure No.: PS/00045/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/0045/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to LINDORFF HOLDING SPAIN, S.A.U. (nowadays
INTRUM), having regard to the complaint filed by Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 07/26/2018 you have entry in this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the claimant, in which she claims the entity LINDORFF HOLDING
SPAIN, S.A.U., (currently INTRUM and hereinafter LINDORFF), for the
following facts: The inclusion of your personal data in the ASNEF file
for a debt at the request of the LINDORFF entity; debt that is not true
having been notified of the inclusion in the file nor required for payment by the
creditor entity, which does not know who it is; that requested the cancellation of the data
to EQUIFAX IBERICA, S.L. has responded by informing him of the precautionary discharge of the
debt with LINDORFF, inclusion that has harmed him in operations with other
entities.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim, of the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed.

On 09/26/2018, the claim submitted was transferred to LINDORFF for analysis
and communication to the complainant of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required so that within a month it would send to the Agency determined
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the claim and
its transfer to the claimed entity.

LINDORFF, in writing dated 10/29/2018, states in response to the request for
information from the AEPD the following: that Liberbank and Banco Castilla La Mancha
celebrated with LINDORFF raised to public deed dated 04/21/2017 the
acquisition of the loan portfolio, among which was the one corresponding to the
claimant; that therefore LINDORFF manages the aforementioned credit as a new creditor;
that on 07/13/2018 received from Equifax Ibérica, S.L. data confirmation request
that appear in the ASSNEF file by request for cancellation at the request of the
claimant; that LINDORFF initiated an internal procedure to determine the verification
of doubt, proceeding to the stoppage of the management and precautionary discharge of the files
of solvency; that after the appropriate verifications it was concluded that the debt was
liquid, expired and payable.

Likewise, in a letter dated 11/07/2018, LINDORFF provides the acknowledgment of 10/29/2018 regarding
to the response offered to the complainant.

THIRD: On 06/24/2019 the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of the
article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

FOURTH: Once notified of the initiation agreement, LINDORFF, I request in writing
date 06/25/2019 copy of the file and extension of the deadline for allegations; the
07/02/2019 both the copy and the
requested extension.

On 07/15/2019, the representative of the respondent made a summary of the following
allegations: that it has not breached any provision of the RGPD; that received the
requirement of the Agency proceeded to determine the verification of the debt,
paralyzing its management and concluding that it was true, liquid and enforceable; that the entity
has processed the claimant's data because it was transferred by Liberbank
in consideration of the assignment contract signed between both entities; that has
a legitimate interest for the treatment with the purpose of collecting the debt by
judicial and extrajudicial procedures; furthermore, LINDORFF, despite the contract of
assignment I request the assignor the contract that gave rise to the debt but despite the
efforts made that one did not respond; that there is a lack of guilt
entity acting as assignee of the debt; that they be archived
present performances.

FIFTH: On 07/31/2019 a period of practice tests began,
remembering the following

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the complaint filed by the
complainant and its documentation, documents obtained and generated by the Services
of Inspection that are part of the file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

-Assume reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement

presented by LINDORFF, and the documentation that accompanies them.

-Request a copy of the assignment agreement signed with LIBERBANK from the person claimed.

On 08/06/2019 LINDORFF responded to the test formulated whose content

work on file.

SIXTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 89 of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations,
(hereinafter LPACAP), a resolution is issued with the completion of the
procedure and filing of the proceedings, when it became clear during the
investigation the following circumstances: that the proven facts do not constitute,
overt mode, administrative infraction.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 07/26/2018 it has entry in this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data from the claimant, in which she claims that LINDORFF has included her
personal data in the ASNEF file for a debt that is not true, not
having been notified of the inclusion in the file nor required for payment by the
creditor entity, which also does not know who it is; that requested the cancellation of
the data to EQUIFAX have communicated the precautionary low of the debt, inclusion that
has harmed him in operations with other entities.

SECOND. It is stated that the personal data of the claimant were
included in the ASNEF file at the request of LINDORFF as a result of a
debt of 345.37 euros being the registration date on 11/02/2017.

THIRD. LINDORFF has reported that Liberbank and Banco Castilla-La Mancha
transferred to LINDORFF through a contract formalized in a public deed a portfolio
of credits, among which was a credit amounting to 345.37 euros compared to
the claimant and who has managed the credit as data controller until
on 07/23/2018.

It also indicates that on 07/13/2018 it received from EQUIFAX IBERICA, S.L., in charge of the
ASNEF file, communication requesting confirmation of the data that appeared in the
file due to cancellation request, for which an internal procedure was initiated to
verification of the credit proceeding to the stoppage of the management and the cancellation
precautionary in ASNEF on 07/23/2018.

He continues that after the appropriate checks he concluded that the debt was true
due and payable.

FOURTH. There is a copy of the crossed e-mails of LINDORFF and LIBERBANK in
relation to the claimant's debt.

On 07/16/2018 LINDORFF sends you an e-mail and asks about the debt indicating:
“We have received a claim from the owner through Equifax and we would need
that you tell us if the debt is payable or not”, not stating any answer.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

On 10/04/2018 LINDORFF sends you an e-mail and asks about the same question:
“We must respond to a complaint from the AEPD, so we would need you to
They will indicate if the debt is due and will provide us with the movements that originated the
debt".

On 10/22/2018, LIBERBANK responds in the same way stating that: “No
We have no information to the contrary.”

FIFTH: It is known that LINDORFF sent LIBERBANK new e-mails on the days
06/25/2019, 07/01/2019 and 07/15/2019 in which he requested that they send him the
Evidence of the existence of the assigned debt under the assignment agreement
signed by both entities, not recording any response to the aforementioned emails.

SIXTH: A certification from LIBERBANK has been provided indicating that the contract of
VISA Credit Card number XXXX.XXXX.XXXXXXXXXX in the name of the
As of 04/21/2017, the claimant presented a debt of 345.37 euros and impressions of
screen of the movements of the card associated with the contract.

SEVENTH: There is an informative letter dated 06/05/2017 sent to the address of the
claimant informing him of the assignment of LIBERBANK's debt to
LINDORFF.

LINDORFF has provided a document from SERVINFORM as provider of the delivery of
requirements for payment and assignment of credits of LINDORFF in which it indicates that the
process of generating, printing and posting the letter of requirement
above was carried out without the occurrence of events that prevented the normal development
of the same; the delivery note, dated 06/09/2017, accepted by the post office
duly validated and, EQUIFAX's certification that the letter addressed to the
claimant, with references NT17060113333 had not been returned for any reason
to the section of
Mail designated for this purpose.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations, establishes in its article 89, Proposal for resolution in
sanctioning procedures, section 1, the following:

II

"1. The investigating body will resolve the completion of the procedure, with file
of the actions, without it being necessary to formulate the proposal for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

resolution, when in the instruction procedure it is made clear that
any of the following circumstances occur:

a) The non-existence of the facts that could constitute the infraction.

b) When the facts are not proven.

c) When the proven facts do not constitute, in a manifest way, an infringement

administrative.

d) When it does not exist or it has not been possible to identify the person or persons

liable or appear exempt from liability.

e) When it is concluded, at any time, that the

infringement".

Article 5, Principles relating to processing, of the GDPR states that:

III

"1. The personal data will be:

a) treated lawfully, loyally and transparently with the interested party (<<lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency
(…)
d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

(…)
2. The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (proactive responsibility)”

In turn, in article 6, Legality of the treatment, of the RGPD establishes that:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

(…)”

Article 4 of the GDPR, Definitions, in section 11, states that:

“11) «consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through
a statement or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

concern him”.

Also article 6, Treatment based on the consent of the affected party,
of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), indicates
that:

"1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, consent of the affected party is understood to be any manifestation of will
free, specific, informed and unequivocal by which he accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern.

2. When the data processing is intended to be based on consent
of the affected party for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state
specific and unequivocal that said consent is granted for all of them.

3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the
processing of personal data for purposes unrelated to the
maintenance, development or control of the contractual relationship”.

And article 20, Credit information systems, which establishes:

"1. Unless proven otherwise, the data processing will be presumed lawful.
related to the breach of monetary, financial or
credit through common credit information systems when the requirements are met.
following requirements:

a) That the data have been provided by the creditor or by someone acting on his behalf.

account or interest.

b) That the data refer to certain, overdue and payable debts, whose
existence or amount had not been the subject of an administrative or judicial claim for
the debtor or through an alternative dispute resolution procedure
binding between the parties.

c) That the creditor has informed the affected party in the contract or at the time
to require payment about the possibility of inclusion in said systems, with
indication of those in which it participates.

(…)

2. The entities that maintain the system and the creditors, regarding the
treatment of the data referred to their debtors, will have the condition of
co-responsible for data processing, being applicable what is established by
Article 26 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

It will be up to the creditor to ensure that the required requirements are met
for inclusion in the debt system, responding for its non-existence or
inaccuracy.

(…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

In the present case, the examined claim deals with the illegality in the
treatment of the personal data of the claimant carried out by LINDORFF
materialized in the inclusion of personal data in the ASNEF file by
a debt that is not recorded is true, due and payable.

IV

As proof of the treatment of the data carried out by the claimed party, we
we refer to the documentation that works in the file, especially the one provided
by the person in charge of the ASNEF file, indicating that the personal data of
the claimant were included in the ASNEF file at the request of LINDORFF at
as a result of a debt of 345.37 euros, the registration date being 11/02/2017.

In the agreement to initiate this procedure it was stated that the contract
of which the origin of the debt brings cause and which was attributed to the claimant,
remaining associated with your personal data in the information file
credit, has not been accredited. While there is no evidence that the claimant consented to
contracting the debt derived from said contract is foreign to him. The attribution to
claimant of the aforementioned debt is an inaccurate figure.

That is why the conduct of the defendant contrary to the principle of legality has
consisted of communicating to a credit information system (the ASNEF file) a
debt that, with respect to the alleged debtor, the claimant, was not certain, neither due nor
required. In addition, the entity has not provided or accredited the verifications by the
which determined and concluded that the debt was liquid, due and payable.

The document that the respondent has provided to the Agency has focused
exclusively in the deed of assignment of credits signed with Liberbank; certificate
of the lender stating that the contract in the name of the claimant
presented on 04/21/2017 a debt of 345.37 euros and screen prints of its
systems referring to the movements made with the card associated with the contract of
bill; however, there is no evidence whatsoever to suggest that said
debt is attributable to the claimant.

However, from the documentation held by this Agency and which has
been provided by the defendant, evidence that despite the foregoing displayed the
minimum diligence that was appropriate considering the circumstances of the case, which
that prevents us from appreciating in the case examined the concurrence of guilt or
negligence attributable to the aforementioned entity, necessary to be able to demand responsibility
for a conduct that, in principle, is unlawful.

As stated in the proven facts LINDORFF before the communication
received from the person in charge of the ASNEF file, EQUIFAX requesting confirmation of the
data linked to the claimant as a result of the exercise of the right of
cancellation formulated by the same on 07/12/2018, paralyzed the management proceeding to the
precautionary discharge in the file and addressed the assignor of the debt through e-mails from
07/16/2018 and 10/04/2018 requesting information about whether the debt was true and
required, responding LIBERBANK on 10/22/2018 indicating that it did not have
no information to the contrary.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

Subsequently, when the sanctioning procedure was opened, it was addressed again
by e-mails on 06/25/2019, 07/01/2019 and 07/15/2019 requesting that they be offered
Evidence of the existence of the assigned debt under the assignment contract
signed by both entities, not stating any response from the assignor to the
aforementioned emails.

In this sense, the SAN of 04/26/2002 (Rec. 895/2009) states: “In effect, no
 
it is possible to affirm the existence of culpability from the result and this is what makes the
Agency by maintaining that by not having prevented the security measures the result
there is guilt. Far from it what must be done and is missing in the Resolution
is to analyze the sufficiency of the measures from the parameters of average diligence
required in the data traffic market. Well, if you act with full diligence,
scrupulously fulfilling the duties derived from diligent action, there is no
affirm or presume the existence of any guilt.

Also the SAN of 04/29/2010, in its sixth Legal Basis, regarding
of a fraudulent hiring, indicated that "The question is not to elucidate whether the appellant
processed the personal data of the complainant without her consent, as if
whether or not you used reasonable diligence in trying to identify the person with
who signed the contract.

The requirement of sanctioning responsibility implies the concurrence
of the subjective element of the infraction, essential requirement as it governs in our
Sanctioning law the principle of culpability that prevents imposing sanctions
based on the strict liability of the alleged offender.

The presence of the subjective element or culpability in a broad sense, such as
condition for the sanctioning responsibility to arise, has been confirmed by the
Constitutional Court, among others, in its STC 76/1999, in which it states that the
Administrative sanctions share the same nature as criminal ones, since they are
one of the manifestations of the ius puniendi of the State and that, as a requirement
derived from the principles of legal certainty and criminal legality enshrined in the
articles 9.3 and 25.1 of the C.E., its existence is essential to impose it.

In the same sense, Law 40/2015 on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector

provides in article 28, under the heading "Responsibility":

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an infraction.
natural and legal persons administratively, as well as, when a Law
recognize capacity to act, affected groups, unions and entities without
legal personality and independent or autonomous estates, which result
responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence.”

In short, from the documentation provided by the respondent, it is evident that
acted with reasonable diligence and taking appropriate and appropriate measures
in order to guarantee that the debt that had been acquired from LIBERBANK complied with the
requirements to be included in the default file. Thus, absent the
subjective element of the infraction, no sanctioning responsibility derives
of the facts that are submitted to the assessment of this body, which requires

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

agree on the file of the investigation actions carried out.

Therefore, as stated,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE LINDORFF HOLDING SPAIN, S.A.U. (nowadays
INTRUM), with NIF A86128147, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD,
sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to LINDORFF HOLDING SPAIN,
S.A.U. (currently INTRUM).

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

