1(6)

Spotify AB
Regeringsgatan 19
111 53 Stockholm

Diary number:
DI-2020-10533

Date:
2021-11-22

Decision after supervision according to
data protection regulation - Spotify AB

The Privacy Protection Authority's decision

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority states that Spotify AB has processed
personal data in violation of







article 12.3 and 15 of the data protection regulation1 by not unnecessarily
delay have given the complainant access to his personal data in accordance with
the appellant's request of 26 December 2018 only on 3 June 2021,

Article 12.2 of the Data Protection Regulation by not having facilitated
the appellant's exercise of his right under Article 16 to be informed of
home address corrected in accordance with his request of December 25, 2018 and
instead directed the complainant to create a new account on the company's music service,
and

article 12.3 and 16 of the data protection regulation by not unnecessarily
delay granted the appellant's request for correction of his home address by
on 25 December 2018 in that the correction only took place on 17 October 2019.

The Privacy Protection Authority gives Spotify AB a reprimand according to article 58.2 b i
the data protection regulation for violation of article 12.2, 12.3, 15 and 16.
Account of the supervisory matter

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority (IMY) has started supervision of Spotify AB (Spotify
or the company) due to a complaint. The complaint has been handed over to IMY, i
attribute of responsible supervisory authority according to Article 56 of the Data Protection Regulation, from
the supervisory authority of the country where the complainant has filed his complaint (Germany).
The handover has taken place in accordance with the regulation's provisions on cooperation
in case of cross-border treatment.

The proceedings at IMY have taken place through an exchange of letters. Against the background that it applies
cross-border treatment, IMY has used the mechanisms for cooperation
and uniformity found in Chapter VII of the Data Protection Regulation. Affected
supervisory authorities have been the data protection authorities of Belgium, Ireland,

1 REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on
repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10533
Date: 2021-11-22

2(6)

Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Italy, Cyprus, Portugal, France, Austria,
Finland, Norway, Luxembourg, Slovakia, Hungary, Spain and Poland.

The complaint
The complaint essentially states the following. The appellant has been refused to change his address for
his account on the company's music service. The company's customer service has stated that it is not
possible to change addresses for accounts and that the solution is to delete the account and open
a new account. The appellant has requested to have his information corrected and considers that not
should be necessary to close your account and open a new one to make it happen
amendment. Furthermore, the complainant has requested access to his personal data. None of
the requests have been met.

What Spotify has stated
Spotify has essentially stated the following.

Spotify received a request from the complainant to update the complainant's home address
on December 25, 2018. The request was answered on December 26, 2018. The company
then informed the complainant that update of address on the already existing
the account (Family account) was not technically feasible, but that a new account with it
the correct address could be created to solve the problem. Spotify would then have
created a new account for free, and Spotify's customer service team would have transferred everything
content, such as playlists, followers, and account information to the new account. This one
however, the solution was rejected by the appellant.

Since then, Spotify has developed a new version of Family Accounts, which allows
the user to change their own address, instead of interfering with customer service and transfer
the account. The complainant was transferred to the new version, in which the address can be changed
by the user in the account settings, on September 18, 2019, whereupon the appellant
updated to its new address on October 17, 2019.

Spotify believes that the company took the necessary steps to satisfy the complainant
request on December 26 and 27, 2018, by explaining that it was not technical
possible in the version of Family Account that existed at the time and instead
offered an alternative solution to the problem.

Spotify received the complainant's request to exercise the right of access on 26 December
2018. Spotify customer service responded to the complainant on December 26, 2018 and referred
the complainant to Spotify's Privacy Center. It is an online service, which provides
standard information about Spotify's personal data processing and how individuals can exercise
their data protection rights, with a link to the "Download your data" tool. Spotify's
however, records show that the appellant did not use the "Download Your Data" tool or
expressed further wishes to have access to their personal data.

According to Spotify's standard process, the customer service advisor would have dealt directly
the complainant's request for right of access instead of referring the complainant to the company's
Privacy Center. On review of the correspondence with the appellant it appears that
that the customer service advisor was primarily focused on answering the complainant's request for
correction and did not notice that it was also a request for access and
therefore did not respond to the request for access in accordance with the company's standard process.
As part of the company's internal data protection program, customer service is regularly trained in how
they can identify and appropriately act on and escalate requests from
registered. In this case, the customer service advisor made a mistake.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10533
Date: 2021-11-22

3(6)

Due to the above described, the complainant was not given access to his personal data
according to its request on December 26, 2018.

Spotify contacted the complainant by email on June 3, 2021 regarding his
request for access and informed that the data has been made available to
download. However, the complainant has not downloaded them or been heard from.
Justification of decisions
Applicable regulations, etc.

According to article 12.2 of the data protection regulation, the personal data controller must
facilitate the exercise of the data subject's rights in accordance with Articles 15-22.
According to Article 12.3, the individual's request to exercise his rights must be handled
without undue delay and in any event no later than one month after
request received. The deadline of one month may be extended by a further two months
if the request is particularly complicated or the number of received requests is high.

According to Article 15, the data subject shall have the right to obtain from the personal data controller
confirmation of whether personal data concerning him or her are being processed.
If such data is processed, the personal data controller must leave the applicant
supplementary information as well as a copy of the personal data that it
personal data controllers process.

According to Article 16, the data subject shall have the right to the personal data controller without
unnecessary delay in having incorrect personal data concerning him or her corrected. With
taking into account the purpose of the processing, the data subject shall have the right to
supplement incomplete personal data, including by providing a
supplementary statement.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority's assessment

Spotify has not dealt with the complainant's request for access in accordance with
data protection regulation
The IMY considers that Spotify has not dealt with the complainant's request for access of 26
December 2018 in accordance with the data protection regulation. It wasn't enough to
Spotify responded to the complainant's request by referring to the company's online service.
That Spotify only contacted the complainant on June 3, 2021 and initiated the process to
disclose the complainant's personal data cannot be considered to have given
the appellant access to the data without undue delay in the sense referred to in
data protection regulation. What Spotify states that there was a question
a one-off occurrence due to an oversight does not lead to a different assessment.

Against this background, IMY states that Spotify AB has processed personal data in
contrary to article 12.3 and 15 of the data protection regulation by not unnecessarily
delay in having given the complainant access to his personal data according to the complainant's request
of 26 December 2018 only on 3 June 2021.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10533
Date: 2021-11-22

4(6)

Spotify has not dealt with the complainant's request for rectification without undue delay
and did not facilitate the exercise of the appellant's right to request rectification i
in accordance with the data protection regulation
When the appellant on 25 December 2018 requested to change his home address had
according to the company's own information, there is no technical possibility to change the information in any other way
than the complainant created a new account. However, IMY believes that the solution that the company
offered, that is, the appellant would create a new account into which the company would transfer
the complainant's information, was not sufficient for the company to be considered to have handled the request
for rectification or to have made it easier for the complainant to exercise his rights. Appellant's
address was only updated on October 17, 2019 by his own care, after that
the company has taken measures to enable it on 18 September 2019.

IMY thus notes that Spotify AB has processed personal data in violation of
Article 12(2) of the Data Protection Regulation by not facilitating the complainant
exercising his right under Article 16 to have his home address information corrected and
instead directed the complainant to create a new account on the company's music service.

Furthermore, IMY states that Spotify AB has processed personal data in violation of Article
12.3 and 16 of the data protection regulation by not satisfying without undue delay
the appellant's request for correction of his home address of 25 December 2018 by
that correction only took place on 17 October 2019.

Choice of intervention

From article 58.2 i and article 83.2 of the data protection regulation it appears that IMY has
power to impose administrative penalty charges in accordance with Article 83.
Depending on the circumstances of the individual case, administrative
penalty fees are imposed in addition to or instead of the other measures referred to in article
58.2, such as injunctions and prohibitions. Furthermore, it is clear from article 83.2 which
factors to be taken into account when deciding whether administrative penalty charges are to be imposed
and when determining the size of the fee. If it is a minor violation
receives IMY as set out in recital 148 in lieu of imposing a penalty charge
issue a reprimand according to article 58.2 b. Consideration must be given to aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances of the case, such as the nature of the violation, degree of severity
and duration as well as previous violations of relevance.

IMY states that the violations affected one person, that it did not concern sensitive people
information and that the company has not previously been found to have violated the aforementioned articles except
article 12.4 on 8 June 2018.2 Furthermore, Spotify has now corrected the information
appellant's home address, changed its procedure for updating such information for
to facilitate the registered and on their own initiative taken measures to accommodate
the appellant's request for access. Against this background, IMY assesses that there is a question
on such minor violations in the sense referred to in recital 148 which result in
Spotify AB must be given a reprimand according to Article 58.2 b of the data protection regulation for the
found the violations.

This decision has been taken by the unit manager Catharina Fernquist after a presentation by
the lawyer Olle Pettersson.

2 IMY's decision of 24 March 2021, dnr DI-2020-10541.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10533
Date: 2021-11-22

5(6)

Catharina Fernquist, 2021-11-22 (This is an electronic signature)

Copy to
The data protection officer

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10533
Date: 2021-11-22

6(6)

How to appeal

If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Privacy Protection Agency. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal shall
have been received by the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the day you received it
part of the decision. If the appeal has been received in time send
The Privacy Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm
examination.

You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

