Advisory Committee of Convention 108 (Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data) held its 47th plenary meeting in Strasbourg from November 4 to 6, 2024, under the presidency of Ms. Else Mein.  
During the plenary session, elections were held for the president, vice-presidents, and members of the Committee. The head of the Argentine data protection authority, Beatriz de Anchorena, was elected as the new president of the Committee.  
Representing the Croatian delegation was the head of the Sector for EU, international cooperation, and legal advice, Anamarija Mladinić, who was elected as vice-president of the Committee of Convention 108 of the Council of Europe.  
The Committee held an exchange of views on the draft Guidelines in the context of neuroscience with experts Marcello Ienca (Technical University of Munich) and Eduardo Bertoni (Washington College of Law at American University), as well as on cross-border transfers of personal data and the use of model contractual clauses with expert Eduardo Ustaran (Hogan Lovells).  
The Committee discussed the status of the implementation of the work program for the period 2022 – 2025 and decided to begin work on guidelines regarding privacy and data protection in the context of machine learning and large language models (LLM).  
The Council of Europe is the oldest European organization based in Strasbourg, whose main goal is to actively contribute to the protection of human rights, democracy, and the rule of law. It comprises 46 member states, 27 of which are members of the European Union.  
For four decades, the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data – Convention 108 – has been the only international legally binding instrument that protects the privacy and personal data of individuals. Its modernized version, Convention 108+, aims to preserve human dignity and provide a secure framework for the free flow of data.  
More information about the work of the Committee of Convention 108 of the Council of Europe is available at the following link: https://www.coe.int/en/web/data-protection/home