




Press release from the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
State data protection officer goes to court for data protection-compliant and secure video surveillance







No.20190208
|
02/08/2019
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

To anticipate one thing: "We don't want to generally ban video surveillance on Marienplatz in Schwerin. The security of the citizens is a very important concern for us. But this also includes the security of their data," says Heinz M端ller, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information M-V clear.
It is also clear that the police and the Ministry of the Interior and Europe M-V must comply with regulations when processing citizens' data. When it comes to data protection, the same laws apply to authorities as to companies or hospitals. One rule is: anyone who processes personal data must ensure from the outset that no one can access or change the data without authorization. "But that's exactly what cannot be guaranteed with video surveillance on Marienplatz," criticizes Heinz M端ller. The police and the Ministry of the Interior and Europe are aware of this. Of course, as required by law, they also thought about data security there and came to the conclusion that the data must be encrypted during transmission.
"It is not clear to us why the police and the Ministry of the Interior and Europe M-V are now deviating from their own guidelines and forgoing secure transmission of the data. In any case, this is a data protection violation that forces us to act," says M端ller further.
Since the orders of the data protection officer for more security of video surveillance, which are binding under European law, have not yet been followed, the only way to go is to go to court. Yesterday evening an application was made to the court that the currently unencrypted image transmission should be prohibited for video surveillance at Marienplatz in Schwerin. "However, it is not our goal that the cameras are switched off, but that the video surveillance is operated in a way that makes it safe. There are solutions on the market for this, and we are happy to engage in further constructive discussions," explains Heinz M端ller in conclusion .









                Back to overview









