

Feeling overwhelmed and don't know where to start?
Do not worry! Help is at hand.
In March, the Personal Data Protection Agency, in cooperation with the HUP Regional Office in Osijek, is organizing a series of workshops on the topic "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)?". The workshops are held within the framework of the EU ARC project, co-financed from the "Program on Rights, Equality and Citizenship" of the European Union. More information at: https://www.hup.hr/29032022-radionica-kako-uskladiti-poslovanje-s-opcom-uredbom-o-zastiti-podataka-gdpr-velika-vijecnica-brodsko-posavske-zupanije-petra- kresimira-iv-1-slavonski-brod-1100.aspx.
Workshop schedule:
29.03. Tuesday Slavonski Brod. Place: Brod-Posavina County Great Hall, Petra Krešimira IV 1, Slavonski Brod, from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
30.03. Wednesday, Vukovar. Place: Business and Innovation Center BIC Vukovar, Economic Zone 15, Vukovar, from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
31.03. Thursday Osijek. Place: Business Incubator and Accelerator Antunovac, Gospodarska zona Antunovac 23, Antunovac, from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
01.04. Friday Virovitica: Place: Business Incubator Virovitica, Business Zone II 18, Virovitica, from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
You can register electronically at: hup-osijek@hup.hr.
The way personal data is used and stored has changed significantly in the last few years. The General Data Protection Regulation gives individuals greater control over their personal data and regulates the way every business and organization must handle consumer and employee data.
Good data management is not only important for your business reputation, but there are also penalties for non-compliance.
Namely, all data processors who dispose of the personal data of individuals, including craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (Articles 24, 25 and 35), are obliged to take all appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to adequately protect the personal data of their employees, users, clients, in short individuals (respondents) and reduce the risk of personal data violations and misuse to a minimum.
Data controllers who do not act in this way are exposed to serious consequences: reputational risk and high fines.
As part of the ARC project, co-financed by the European Union's "Rights, Equality and Citizenship" program, we designed a website and various activities to help small businesses comply with the GDPR.
Learn more on the ARC project website and watch the ARC promotional video.





