

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities Checking the security of clients' personal data (the company KAPITOL pojišťováci a financier poradenství, a.s.)



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the security of personal data of clients and potential clients when mediating the products of the company KAPITOL pojišťováci a financier poradenství, a.s. The content of the complaint was the claim of a former employee of the company that another former employee of the company was using the personal data of clients that he should have stolen from her. The auditors did not prove the applicant's claim that the leak of personal data occurred due to the lack of security of the personal data of the audited person. On the contrary, it was proven that at the time when the clients of this company were to be taken over, it was the applicant who took over these clients. In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The inspection was conducted by the inspector MVDr. František Bartoš. Recommendation: In the event that there is a transfer of (part of) the business plant, or legal succession for another reason, there will also be a transfer of contracts, including personal data of clients. While preserving the purpose, the new owner (part) of the plant, as well as another legal successor, is generally entitled to process personal data in the same way as the previous owner of the plant in question, or another legal predecessor.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st half of the year > Financial services, insurance industry > Inspection of the security of clients' personal data (KAPITOL pojišťováci company a financier poradenství, a.s.)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



