1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00450/2019

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated May 14, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against Xfera Móviles, S.A. with NIF A82528548 (hereinafter, the
claimed).

The claimant states that, on May 14, 2019, she received a
call from a Masmovil client who stated that said entity had charged him
in your bank account an invoice of yours, and therefore your data appears in it
personal. He adds that he contacted the respondent and she told him that
everything had been motivated by a mistake.

Provide the following documentation: screenshot (related to the charge made on 10

May 2019) sent by the third party to the claimant.

In the position appears the name, surnames, DNI and telephone number of the

claimant

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant and the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

The respondent party is informed of this claim on the 7th of
August 2019, requiring you to submit to this Agency, within a period of one month,
information on the response given to the claimant when exercising the rights
regulated in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD, the causes that have motivated the
incident that gave rise to the claim and the measures taken to prevent it from occurring.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

similar incidents occur, dates of implementation and controls carried out to
check its effectiveness.

After the given period has elapsed, no response has been received from the

claimed.

THIRD: On January 24, 2020, having not received any type of
information to the requirement made within the framework of the previous actions of
investigation by the claimed entity, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against Xfera Móviles,
S.A., by virtue of the powers established in art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in art 47,
64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for the infringement of the
article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD and considered very
serious in 72.1.a), for prescription purposes, and order Xfera Móviles S.A. , of
in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten
days proceed to order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, that the
treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, setting a
initial penalty of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros).

FOURTH: The agreement to start the sanctioning procedure was sent by means of
electronic notification, Notific@, dated February 3, 2020, resulting in Expired
ten days later.

FIFTH
 : Formal notification of the start agreement, the claim at the time of the
 
This resolution has not submitted a brief of arguments, so it is
application of what is stated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, which in its
section f) establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the stipulated period
on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant on May 14, 2019, received a call from a client of
Masmovil that explained to him that said entity had charged him to his bank account
an invoice of yours, and therefore your personal data appears on it, and that it was put into
contact with the claimed and she told him that everything had been motivated by a
mistake.

SECOND: It appears in the screenshot file (related to the charge made on 10
May 2019) sent by the third party to the claimant.

In the position appears the name, surnames, DNI and telephone number of the

claimant

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

THIRD: On August 7, 2019, the respondent was informed
this claim, by means of electronic notification, Notific@, resulting
accepted on the 14th of the same month and year, not responding to this requirement.

FOURTH: On January 24, 2020, this sanctioning procedure was initiated by the
infringement of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD (integrity and confidentiality), being
notified. Not having submitted a brief of arguments.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data
and guarantee of digital rights, in its article 4.11 defines the consent of the
interested party as "any manifestation of free will, specific, informed and
unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a
clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that concerns you”.

In this sense, article 6.1 of the RGPD, establishes that “in accordance with
the provisions of article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, means
consent of the affected party, any manifestation of free will, specific,
informed and unequivocal by which it accepts, either by means of a declaration or
a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that concerns you”.

On the other hand, article 5 regulates the principles relating to the treatment of

personal data, establishing that they must be:

a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; personal data may be kept for longer periods
provided that they are treated exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with article
89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the conservation period");

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility").

III

It is considered that the facts denounced, that is, the visualization of the
data of the claimant by an outside third party, allow verifying that the
claimed has not been able to guarantee adequate security in the treatment of the
personal data of the claimant, thus incurring in the violation of article
5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs the principles of data integrity and confidentiality
personal data, as well as the proactive responsibility of the data controller
demonstrate compliance.

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

In the present case we are dealing with unintentional negligent action, but

identified significant (article 83.2 b)

Basic personal identifiers (name,

surnames), according to article 83.2 g)

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE XFERA MÓVILES, S.A., with NIF A82528548, for a
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of €70,000 (seventy thousand euros).

SECOND: ORDER Xfera Móviles, S.A. with NIF A82528548, in accordance with
provided for in article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten days proceed to
order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to XFERA MÓVILES, S.A.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

