  Friday, November 9th, 2018 2: Press releases How do you build data protection into software? KoSSE workshop "Data Protection by Design" on November 14, 2018 The Competence Network Software Systems Engineering and the Independent State Center for Data Protection discuss the new requirement "Data Protection by Design".
The workshop on November 14, 2018 from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the IHK in Kiel is open to all interested parties and is free of charge. Registration is requested at www.diwish.de. With the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has been in force since May, a data protection requirement has come into focus that affects the development of software: "Data Protection by Design". Developers are now faced with the challenge of implementing this abstract requirement in concrete terms. The Competence Network Software Systems Engineering (KoSSE) cordially invites you to the KoSSE Workshop 2018 with the Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein (ULD). There you will have the opportunity to find out about the current state of research and practical solutions. After an introduction by Marit Hansen, the state representative for data protection in Schleswig-Holstein, Prof. Dr. Hannes Federrath (Uni HH), President of the Gesellschaft für Informatik, presented software support for the implementation of the standard data protection model. With an insight into a current research project at the CAU by Dr.-Ing. Reiner Jung and the practical experience of an entrepreneur by Andreas Großmann (PLATO AG, Lübeck) will round off the range of lectures. The workshop will provide an opportunity for exchange and networking. We ask that you register for the KoSSE workshop by November 12, if possible, at: https://www.diwish.de/termin/kosse-workshop-data-protection-by-design.html [External] KoSSE workshop 2018 “Data Protection by Design"
Wednesday, November 14, 2018
1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., get-together from 12:30 p.m
Kiel Chamber of Industry and Commerce "North Sea area", Bergstraße 2, 24103 Kiel Tags for this article: data protection by design, dsgvo, news, press releases, eventsArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure