31/5/2022
Use of the location data function on employees' laptops Keywords: Location information Employees Legal basis: decision in accordance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation Diary number: 6813/171/21
Decision of the Deputy Data Protection Commissioner in the matter regarding the processing of registered location data
Thing
Using Windows 10's location-aware functionality on employee laptops
Registrar
Pohjois Savo hospital district
Statement received from the registrar
On August 19, 2021, the data controller has submitted a preliminary information security breach notification to the data protection commissioner's office, according to which the "allow the use of location information on this device" function is automatically activated on the employees' computers. It is not possible for the employee to change this setting himself.
The Office of the Data Protection Commissioner has requested additional information from the data controller to investigate the matter on 16 September 2021, 27 September 2021 and 9 March 2022. The registrar has provided additional clarification on the matter on 17 September 2021, 30 September 2021 and 14 March 2022.
According to the additional explanation provided by the controller on September 17, 2021, the controller's information management has started the investigations on August 18, 2021 with the ICT service provider (Istekki Oy) regarding the location setting and turning it off. According to the report carried out by the data management of the registrar, no personal data is sent to Microsoft in connection with allowing the use of location data.
On September 30, 2021, the controller has confirmed to the data protection commissioner's office that it has also been the case of portable computers carried by employees. According to his account, the controller has not used the location data for anything. On March 14, 2022, the data controller has confirmed to the data protection commissioner's office that the location data setting has been disabled in workstations.
On applicable legislation
The General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and the Council (General Data Protection Regulation) has been applied since May 25, 2018. As a regulation, the legislation is immediately applicable law in the member states. The Data Protection Regulation contains national leeway, on the basis of which national legislation can be used to supplement and clarify matters specifically defined in the regulation. The general data protection regulation is specified by the national data protection act (1050/2018), which has been applied since January 1, 2019. The previously valid Personal Data Act (523/1999) was repealed by the Data Protection Act.
According to Article 4(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data means all data related to an identified or identifiable natural person; an identifiable natural person is considered to be a natural person who can be directly or indirectly identified, especially on the basis of identification information, such as location information.
Article 25(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation stipulates the requirement of default data protection. The controller must implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that, by default, only the personal data necessary for the specific purpose of the processing is processed. This obligation applies to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of processing, storage time and availability. With the help of these measures, it must be ensured in particular that personal data is not, by default, made available to an unlimited number of people without the contribution of a natural person.
Special issues related to data protection in working life are regulated nationally in the Act on the Protection of Privacy in Working Life (759/2004). The data protection commissioner supervises compliance with the law on privacy protection in working life as stipulated in ยง 22 of the law.
Section 3 of the Act on the Protection of Privacy in Working Life provides for the requirement of necessity related to the processing of personal data. According to the law, the employer may only process personal data that is immediately necessary for the employee's employment relationship, which is related to managing the rights and obligations of the parties to the employment relationship or the benefits offered by the employer to the employees, or due to the special nature of the work tasks. The necessity requirement cannot be deviated from with the employee's consent. In turn, Article 5(1)(c) of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the data minimization principle, according to which personal data must be appropriate and relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed. The necessity requirement of Section 3 of the Act on the Protection of Privacy in Working Life limits the personal data that can be processed to those that have a connection to managing the rights and obligations of the parties. The limitation is thus stricter than the minimization principle of the General Data Protection Regulation.
A legal issue
The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner assesses and resolves the matter on the basis of the aforementioned General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the Data Protection Act (1050/2018).
The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner must resolve:

1) Whether the use of the location function of the Windows 10 operating system on the employees' laptops was in accordance with ยง 3 of the Act on Privacy Protection in Working Life (759/2004), and whether the data controller could process the employees' location data.

2) Has the use of the location information function of the Windows 10 operating system met the requirements from Article 25(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Decision of the Deputy Data Protection Commissioner
Decision
In its operations, the data controller has not complied with the requirement of necessity according to ยง 3 of the Act on the Protection of Privacy in Working Life or the requirement of default data protection according to Article 25(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, and the procedure of the data controller regarding keeping the location information setting of the Windows 10 operating system on has not been in accordance with data protection regulations.
The controller is given an order in accordance with Article 58, Paragraph 2, subparagraph d of the General Data Protection Regulation to delete any historical data, location logs, and other personal data generated when using the location data feature. By August 8, 2022, the data controller must provide the data protection commissioner's office with information about the measures it has taken as a result of this order, unless the data controller applies for an amendment to this decision. The controller has confirmed to the data protection commissioner's office on March 14, 2022 that the location information feature has been disabled from the workstations. For this reason, the deputy data protection commissioner does not give the controller an order to deactivate the function.
The controller is given a notice in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the General Data Protection Regulation regarding keeping the location information setting of the Windows 10 operating system on. The location information setting has been turned on by default on the employees' laptops for no reason, and the controller has not ensured that this is not the case. The registrar has not had the legal need to process employees' location data.
Reasoning

Section 3 of the Act on the Protection of Privacy in Working Life

In the matter currently being evaluated, the main switch for location data in the Windows 10 system has been locked on by the administrator. The function has been used, for example, on the employees' laptops, which, according to the report obtained in the case, may have been used remotely by the employees as well.
Since the case concerns the processing of employees' personal data, when evaluating the procedure of the data controller, the provisions of the law on the protection of privacy in working life should be taken into account. According to ยง 3 of the law, the employer may only process personal data that is immediately necessary for the employee's employment relationship, which is related to the management of the rights and obligations of the parties to the employment relationship or the benefits offered by the employer to the employees, or due to the special nature of the work tasks.
When the processing of personal data is outsourced, the controller must also be able to identify its legal objectives regarding the processing of personal data and ensure that unnecessary personal data is not processed. Since the location information of the employees in this case has been unnecessary for the employer and generally collected for no purpose, the processing of the personal information regarding the location of the employees has not been immediately necessary for the controller as stipulated in Section 3 of the Data Protection Act, and the employer should not have processed this information.

Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation

In the matter now being evaluated, the Windows 10 operating system's location data setting has been turned on by default on the employees' laptops. According to the controller, it has not used the location data for anything.
Article 25(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for default data protection. In order to comply with the requirement of default data protection, the controller must determine in advance for which specific, specific and legal purpose personal data is collected and processed. Processing operations must be planned in such a way that from the beginning only as little personal data is processed as is necessary for certain processing operations.
The default data protection requirement also requires that the data controller, when using third-party software or ready-made software, must ensure that functions for which there is no legal basis or which do not correspond to the intended purposes of the processing are disabled.
The deputy data protection commissioner states that the data controller has now been able to control the location data regulation in the case being evaluated. The deputy data protection commissioner further states that the case concerns functions that are considered normal for the Windows 10 operating system, and based on the report received in the case, the data controller has not gone through the basic settings. The registrar should have detected the existence of the location data regulation in a timely manner, before the deployment of the workstations, and the registrar should have evaluated the processing of personal data in the various functions before the deployment. Before introducing the workstations, the controller should also have communicated with the personal data processor in sufficient detail which functionalities are supposed to be enabled. It should be noted that in this case the service used by the data controller must work without the location setting being on.
In the case under review, the controller has stated that it has not used the location data for anything, and based on the report obtained in the case, the data has been collected without the intention of doing so. The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner states that regarding the processing of location data in working life in general, the controller must always ensure that there is a legal basis for the processing before starting the processing of personal data. Regarding the processing of employees' personal data, special attention should also be paid to Section 3 and Section 4 of the Act on the Protection of Privacy in Working Life. Employees must also be transparently informed about the existence of tracking and, for example, the purposes of use of location data, and employees must in principle be able to use the rights of the data subject, including the right to inspect personal data. It should be pointed out that according to the opinion practice of the EU data protection group, the employer should not collect the employee's location data outside of the employee's working hours, and the employee should be able to turn off the location function outside of working hours. The employee should also be instructed how to turn off the positioning function. The EU's data protection group has also considered it essential that the device in use constantly warns the user, for example with a permanently visible icon, that the location data collection function is on. The EU's data protection group has also stated that when the processing of the registered location data is allowed in the device as a default setting, the fact that the user does not make changes to the settings himself cannot be considered as voluntarily given consent.

Transmission of information to the location service provider

Since the controller has not properly taken care of the basic settings of the operating system, information generated in connection with the use of the location information feature has also ended up with the location service provider (Microsoft). In this regard, the controller has assessed that the information received by the location service provider is not personal data, and the registered persons have not been identifiable. When investigating the matter, the data management of the registrar received the following response from Microsoft:
"If you have enabled the device location setting, your device sends de-identified location information (including wireless access point information, and precise GPS location if available) to Microsoft after removing all personally identifiable information at the service"
According to the response received from Microsoft by the data controller's data management, when the device's location feature is turned on, the device sends unrecognizable location data, including the connection point of the wireless network, data from the base station of the mobile phone network, and the exact GPS location that may be available. The information is therefore sent to the location service provider. At this point, the Deputy Data Protection Commissioner draws attention to the fact that the method of operation does not prevent the combination of data by the operator providing the location service so that the data subject is basically identifiable despite the procedure described above. According to Article 4(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation:

"personal data means all data related to an identified or identifiable natural person, hereinafter referred to as 'data subject'; an identifiable natural person is considered to be a natural person who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by identification data such as name, social security number, location data, online identification data or one or more physical, based on a physiological, genetic, psychological, economic, cultural or social factor."

According to introductory paragraph 26 of the General Data Protection Regulation:

"in order to determine whether a natural person is identifiable, all means that either the controller or another person can reasonably be expected to use to identify said natural person directly or indirectly, such as distinguishing that person from others, should be taken into account. In order to ensure whether the means can be reasonably likely to be used to identify a natural person, all objective factors should be taken into account, such as the costs of identification and the time required for identification, as well as the technology and technical development available at the time of processing".

Personal data also includes information from which a person can be indirectly identified. Introductory paragraph 26 of the General Data Protection Regulation further states that personal data is information that can be linked to a natural person using additional information. In its statement on the concept of personal data, the EU's data protection group has stated regarding the combination of data that "If the available identifiers do not, in principle, enable the identification of a person, the person may still be "identifiable", because the information combined with other data (which does not necessarily have to be in the controller's possession) enables the person separation from others". The matter being evaluated now concerns information that can be linked to a natural person by using additional information, by combining information, and from which the data subject can thus be indirectly identified
Regardless of whether the data has actually been combined, the case must be considered to be personal data also with regard to the data that has ended up with the location service provider. The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner also notes that, for example, the information about the connection point of the wireless network, which, as stated above, is included in the information going to the location service provider, may contain the MAC address of the Wi-Fi base station, which identifies a physical device, and the device in question may be, for example, at the registered person's home.
The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner states that in terms of implementing default data protection and complying with the controller's other obligations, it is of primary importance that the controller makes an appropriate and thorough assessment of when personal data is being processed. It is not possible to transfer responsibility for the correctness of this assessment to a personal data processor, such as an ICT service provider.
Applicable legal provisions
Those mentioned in the justifications.
Appeal
According to Section 25 of the Data Protection Act (1050/2018), this decision can be appealed by appealing to the Administrative Court in accordance with the provisions of the Act on Trial in Administrative Matters (808/2019). The appeal is made to the administrative court.

The decision is legally binding.




