1/5

 N/Ref.: E/03094/2020

1120-230420

RESOLUTION OF FILE OF ACTIONS

Of the actions followed on the occasion of the claim presented in the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, for alleged violation of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding
to the protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
personal data and the free circulation of these data (hereinafter, RGPD) and having
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Dated February 27, 2020 and entry registration number
009704/2020, a claim was received by this Agency, related to a
alleged cross-border processing of personal data carried out by the
company AVA TRADE, presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) for a
alleged violation of arts. 15, 17 and 21 of the RGPD.

The grounds on which the claimant bases the claim are:

 Reception of unsolicited advertising calls (often approximately
bi-monthly), from telephone numbers with a prefix of ***PAÍS.1. At
course of the same, the claimant has requested information on the
origin of your data, and the suppression of the same, or at least a channel for
make the request. However, their requests have not been met, and the
calls have continued to occur.

 The claimant has addressed a request for formal access on 12/27/2019
to the postal address of the calling company in ***COUNTRY.2 (since on its page
web ***URL.1 does not indicate any way to exercise the protection rights
of data or contact information of a DPO), but has not obtained
answer. Remember and certify that your phone number is included in
Robinson list since 02/07/2017.

The claim is accompanied by the recordings of 4 calls, a copy of the request
of access allegedly addressed by post to the Irish headquarters of the company (not
its delivery or shipment is credited), and certificate of ADigital accrediting the inclusion in
Spanish Robinson list of the receiving telephone number since 02/07/2017.

SECOND: The person responsible for the processing of personal data, AVA TRADE EU
LTD., has its main or sole establishment in ***COUNTRY.2.

THIRD: Taking into account the possible cross-border nature of the claim,
On February 20, 2020, the claim was sent to the control authority of
***COUNTRY.2, the “Data Protection Commission” (DPC), as it is the competent authority to act
as the main control authority in the cooperation procedure, in accordance with the
provided in article 56.1 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FOURTH: This referral to ***COUNTRY.2 was made through the “Information System
of the Internal Market” (IMI).
The control authorities of Belgium,
Denmark, Poland, Italy, Norway, Estonia, France, Portugal, Hungary, Finland and
Sweden, as well as the German regions of Rhineland-Palatinate, Lower Saxony and
Bavaria Private Sector.

FIFTH: The main authority has contacted this Agency providing
the response of the data controller. He does not acknowledge having made the
calls to the claimant or be in possession of their personal data. They point out that
could be unknown third parties, who would be posing as
employees of a legitimately constituted company to extract information
financial or personal of the subjects you call and subsequently commit any
type of fraudulent activity.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I - Competition

In accordance with the provisions of article 60.8 of the RGPD, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to adopt this resolution.
in accordance with article 12.2, section i) of Royal Decree 428/1993, of 26
March, which approves the Statute of the Data Protection Agency (in
hereinafter, RD 428/1993) and the first transitory provision of Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
such (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

II - Internal Market Information System (IMI)

The Internal Market Information System is regulated by the
Regulation (EU) No. 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of October 25
2012 (IMI Regulation), and its objective is to promote administrative cooperation
cross-border, mutual assistance between Member States and the exchange of information
training.

III - Determination of the territorial scope

As specified in article 66 of the LOPDGDD:
"one. Except in the cases referred to in article 64.3 of this organic law
nica, the Spanish Agency for Data Protection must, prior to the realisation,
lization of any other action, including the admission to processing of a claim
or the beginning of preliminary investigation actions, examine their competence and
determine the national or cross-border character, in any of its modalities,
of the procedure to follow.

2. If the Spanish Data Protection Agency considers that it does not have the
condition of main control authority for the processing of the procedure referred to
will, without further formality, the claim made to the main control authority that
it considers competent, so that it is given the appropriate course. The Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

The Spanish Data Protection Agency will notify this circumstance to whom, if applicable,
would have made the claim.

The agreement by which the referral referred to in the previous paragraph is resolved.
will imply the provisional filing of the procedure, notwithstanding that due to the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is issued, if appropriate, the re-
solution referred to in paragraph 8 of article 60 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”

IV - Main establishment, cross-border treatment and control authority

principal

Article 4.16 of the RGPD defines “main establishment”:
“a) in what refers to a data controller with establishments
in more than one Member State, the place of its central administration in the Union, except
that decisions about the purposes and means of processing be made in another state
establishment of the controller in the Union and the latter establishment has the power
to enforce such decisions, in which case the establishment that has adopted
such decisions shall be deemed principal establishment;

b) with regard to a data processor with establishments in
more than one Member State, the place of its central administration in the Union or, if
derived from this, the establishment of the person in charge in the Union in which the
main treatment activities in the context of the activities of an establishment
foundation of the processor to the extent that the processor is subject to obligations
specific in accordance with this Regulation”

For its part, article 4.23 of the RGPD considers “cross-border processing”:
“a) the processing of personal data carried out in the context of the activities
establishments in more than one Member State of a manager or a manager
of processing in the Union, if the controller or processor is established in
more than one Member State,

or b) the processing of personal data carried out in the context of the activities
from a single establishment of a controller or processor in
the Union, but which substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect
interested in more than one Member State”

The RGPD provides, in its article 56.1, for cases of processing
cross-border, provided for in its article 4.23), in relation to the competence of the
main supervisory authority, which, without prejudice to the provisions of article 55, the
control authority of the main establishment or of the sole establishment of the
responsible or the person in charge of the treatment will be competent to act as
lead supervisory authority for cross-border processing carried out by
said person in charge or in charge in accordance with the procedure established in article
60.

In the case examined, as stated, AVA TRADE has in ***COUNTRY.2
its main or sole establishment, so that the control authority of this country, the
Data Protection Commission, (DPC), is the competent to act as authority of
main control in the cooperation procedure.

V - Interested control authority

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

In accordance with the provisions of article 4.22) of the RGPD, it is the Authority of
interested control, the control authority affected by the processing of personal data
sonal because:

a.- The controller or processor is established in the territory
of the Member State of that supervisory authority;
b.- The interested parties who reside in the Member State of that control authority
control are substantially affected or are likely to be substantially affected.
mind affected by the treatment, or
c.- A claim has been filed with that control authority.
 
In this proceeding, they act as “international control authority”.
sated” the control authorities of Belgium, Denmark, Poland, Italy, Norway, Es-
Estonia, France, Portugal, Hungary, Finland and Sweden, as well as the German regional
nas of Rhineland-Palatinate, Lower Saxony and Bavaria Private Sector.

VI - Cooperation and coherence procedure

Article 60 of the RGPD, which regulates the cooperation procedure between the
main supervisory authority and the other interested supervisory authorities, has
in section 8, the following:

“8. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 7, when rejecting or rejecting
a claim, the supervisory authority to which it has been filed will adopt the
decision, it will notify the claimant and inform the data controller of it.”

VII - Claimed issue and legal reasoning

In this case, it has been presented to the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
cough claim for an alleged violation of art. 17 and 21 of the RGPD, related
with a possible cross-border processing of personal data carried out
do by the company AVA TRADE.

The person in charge of said platform is a company that has a
Main or sole establishment in ***COUNTRY.2. Consequently, this Agency sent the
case to the Data Protection Commission (DPC), as the main authority in the
cooperation procedure, following the provisions of art. 60 of the GDPR.

The main authority has contacted this Agency facilitating the
response of the data controller. She does not acknowledge having made the
calls to the claimant or be in possession of their personal data. They point out that
could be unknown third parties, who would be posing as
employees of a legitimately constituted company to extract information
financial or personal of the subjects you call and subsequently commit any
type of fraudulent activity.

As there is no evidence in the documentation provided by the claimant
rational that the calls have actually been made by the company
claimed, nor, on the other hand, be accredited the delivery or shipment of the alleged
request for access to the postal address of the company in ***COUNTRY.2, this Agency
considers that the filing of the actions initiated as a result of this
claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Therefore, in accordance with what was indicated, by the Director of the Agency

Spanish Data Protection, IT IS AGREED:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE the claim filed on the 27th of
February 2020 and entry registration number 009704/2020.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CLAIMANT

THIRD: INFORM AVA TRADE EU LTD. about the decision made in the
this resolution.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the presentation

The resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure according to the provisions
do by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Agreement of Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions
in arts. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, the interested parties may
may file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly admissible contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction
ministerial, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

