 

 
GREEK EMPIRE

 

 
PRINCIPLE OF PROTECTION OF E OMEN

 

 

 
OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER

 
 

 

 

 

 
     

     

 
Athens, 20-02-2018

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/1453/20-02-2018

 

 

      

A P O F A S I NO. 14 / 2018
 

   

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
    

(Department)
 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department at its headquarters on Wednesday 31-01-2018 at 10:00 a.m. following an invitation from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Its President, in order to examine the case mentioned in its history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present. They were attended by the Deputy President, Georgios Batzalexis, who was disabled
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the President of the Authority Constantou Menoudakos, and the alternate members
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Panagiotis Rontogiannis, as rapporteur, Grigoris Tsolias and Charalambos Tsiliotis, in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

replenishment of regular members Antonios Symvonis, Charalambos Anthopoulos and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Spy don Vlachopoulos instead. Present without the right to vote was Georga
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Panagopoulou, specialist scientist - examiner, as assistant rapporteur, and Irini
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative affairs department, as secretary.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

With no. 41/2016 Decision the Authority decided that the functioning of the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance at the facilities of the "The Good Shepherd" Shelter by Company a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Let's protect Piraeus Children is tolerable, under the then conditions of (under)staffing and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

functionary of the House, and for a period not exceeding one year. During the interval
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Authority called the Piraeus Child Protection Company to inform it
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding any change in these conditions, in order to determine whether
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the principle of proportionality is respected during the operation of the system in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance within the premises of Stegi. Due to the importance of the issue, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority notified the decision to the Minister of Justice and the Children's Advocate,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to deal with the issues related to the insufficient
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

staffing of the Home and the incomplete and inappropriate provision of care to them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

high altitude
 

The Piraeus Child Protection Company sent the Authority with no. first...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document (ADDPH C/EIS/2023/11-07-2017) with which he informed about the need
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

expansion (increase in the number of cameras from 18 to 32) and continued operation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance system, due to insufficient staffing and increased needs for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

safe living of hosted minors.
 

 

 

 

 

Then the Authority sent the Piraeus Child Protection Company with no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prot. GN/EX/2023-1/17-10-2017 document with which he requested the presentation of data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

about the reasons that forced the increase in the number of its cameras
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance system, detailed diagram of the areas monitored with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

marked on it the positions of the cameras and image ranges from the shooting level of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cameras. The Piraeus Child Protection Company responded with no. first...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(APDPH C/EIS/3417/23-11-2017) document with which he provided the requested data a. With
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this document documents the need to use and expand the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance due to the extremely insufficient staffing, the very large area
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

facilities and increased security risks.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

In this regard, it was also sent with no. prot. C/EX/7140/05-10-2017 document to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Minister of Justice with which the Authority requested to be informed about the actions in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which the Minister has done regarding its staffing with appropriate personnel
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Stegi Anil kon "The Good Shepherd". The Minister replied with no. first...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document (ADPPH C/EIS/9722/27-12-2017) in which he mentions actions regarding the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

staffing of the Children's Home "The Good Shepherd", actions that were not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

resulting in the resolution of the issue.
 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining the aforementioned data, heard the rapporteur
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the clarifications of the assistant rapporteur, who then left before the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conference and decision-making, and after thorough discussion,
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
CONSIDERED ACCORDING TO THE LAW

 

 

 

 

1. The question of the use of video surveillance systems for the purpose of protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persons and goods is regulated in no. 1/2011 Directive of the Authority (available at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
2

its website www.dpa.gr). According to article 5 of the above Guide let, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refers to the application of the principle of proportionality, the legality of our processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

considered in the context of the purpose pursued by the person in charge of processing and in accordance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the principle of proportionality, which requires video surveillance systems to be yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate and necessary in relation to the intended purpose, which should not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

may have been achieved by milder means (Article 4 of Law 2472/1997). Affordability and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the necessity of video surveillance is assessed based on the risk posed by the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing he wants to deal with in relation to the intended purpose.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, the installation points of the cameras and the way of receiving the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must be identified in such a way that the data collected is not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more than is absolutely necessary for the fulfillment of its purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

process and do not violate the fundamental rights of the persons found
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the supervised area.
 

 

 

 

2. The most special case of the operation of video surveillance systems in a school
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and other places where minors are active is regulated in article 18 thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above Guide let. In this article it is pointed out, among other things, that the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

allowed to operate only during the hours when the supervised area was not operating, with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

except special cases of large-scale installations (under conditions, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

approval of the Authority).
  

 

 

More generally, the operation of video surveillance systems in places where
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

minors are active must be done with great care, given that no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It is easy to assess the consequences that such processing can have for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the free development of the personality of minors: Specifically, there is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the risk of limiting the development of the concept of their freedom, if they believe from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

young age that it is normal to be monitored by cameras (see also
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 2/2009 of the Article 29 Working Group, as well as the Decision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

77/2009 of the Authority).
 

 
3. Also, according to article 7 of Guideline 1/2011, the system should not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is used for the surveillance of the workers inside the workplaces, except
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

special exceptional cases where this is justified by nature and circumstances
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

work and is necessary for the protection of their health and safety
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

workers or the protection of sensitive workplaces (e.g. military factories,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

banks, high-risk facilities). For example, in a typical office space
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

business, video surveillance must be limited to entry and exit areas, without
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
3

to monitor specific office rooms or corridors.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. However, the Housing was a case that needs special treatment because
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the stay – on a 24-hour basis – in its premises, following a court decision,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

minor children. Therefore, the first observation is that it is not possible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the provision of the Guide regarding permitted operation of the system be applied
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance during the hours when the supervised area was not working.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. Regarding the target with the video surveillance system in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purpose, this is recommended, according to the express and categorical statement of those responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Shelter, exclusively for the protection of minors residing in the Shelter, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

indeed in their protection both: a) from inherent risks due to the internal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

arrangement of the spaces where minors are accommodated - as they extend into three
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

floors of 500 sq.m. each one – with the result that it becomes particularly difficult n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

monitoring the children, who live in them, even under normal conditions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions as well as b) from risks, arising from the inadequacy of the staff,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

both numerical and qualitative, due to the insufficient qualifications of the employee
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personnel, given that none of the employees is a teacher, not all of them are
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

correctional officers seconded from prisons with distinctly different
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recruiting performances, knowledge and experience than they need to have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the persons charged with the monitoring of minors for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

effective performance of their duties.
 

 

 

 

 

6. Taking into account the above, its principle must be examined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proportionality with regard to the operation of the specific video surveillance system,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the interior of the House. In other words, you should decide if it is tolerable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data of both minors and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

working at the "The Good Shepherd" Shelter in the manner that has been disclosed,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i.e. without registration. The affordability and necessity of video surveillance will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must be assessed based on the risk that the controller wants to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dealt with in relation to the intended purpose. In the specific case o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

risk concerns the physical and mental health of minors and you should consider whether
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there are other means more suitable for the intended purpose.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7. The extremely insufficient staffing of the "The Good Shepherd" Shelter, since the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

staff is very small in number and does not have the required expertise, no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

allows the provision of the care that it is legally obliged to provide and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

indeed in minors of which the State has taken care of. Taking
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
4

considering this reality, it seems that for now the intended purpose, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

yes, the protection of both the physical and mental health of minors,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

facilitated through the use of the video surveillance system, with the appellant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number of cameras, as it allows remote monitoring of children in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

extensive areas of the Roof, occupying an area of three (3) floors, during
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mentioned above, but it is not guaranteed. This should concern
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

primarily the State, which benefits, in the opinion of the members of the Department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority, to take, as soon as possible, the appropriate measures, in particular, for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protection of the physical and mental health of minors by assigning the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

monitoring of minors in personnel, which will be sufficient in number and will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possesses the appropriate qualifications for the execution of the above project.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
FOR THOSE REASONS

 

 

 

 

 
The Authority considers once again that the operation of the video surveillance system on

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
facilities of the "The Good Shepherd" Shelter from the Child Protection Company

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Piraeus remains tolerable, and for a period not exceeding one year, within

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
where the Authority hoped to have settled the issue of Mr. as the servant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
personnel.

 
During this period, the Authority called the Piraeus Child Protection Company

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
to inform her about any change in these conditions,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
in order to judge whether the principle of proportionality is respected during the operation of art

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
due to a video surveillance system within the premises of the Shelter.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Due to the importance of the issue, this is being communicated to the Minister

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of Justice and the Children's Advocate, in order to take responsibility for the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
issues related to the insufficient staffing of the Shelter and the incomplete and non-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
providing adequate care to minors.

 

 

 

 

 

 
The Deputy President

 

 

 
 
 

 
George Batzalexis

 

 

 

  
5

 

 
The Secretary

 

 

 

 
Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

 

