
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    08/31/2020
                                Effects of the nationwide data breach in guest lists on Rhineland-Palatinate companies - LfDI requests information on the Dehoga contact recording appIn the past few days, reports have caused a stir that security gaps at a Bremen-based service provider are said to have led to millions of contact recording data nationwide were easily accessible from the catering trade. Rhineland-Palatinate is also affected. Professor Dieter Kugelmann, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI), explains: "The first catering establishments in Trier and Landau have reported being affected by the data breach. I assume so that more restaurants will be added. As the Rhineland-Palatinate authority, we are in contact with the supervisory authority responsible for the Bremen service provider in the Hanseatic city. In the course of this, it must also be clarified whether and how responsibility is to be shared between the Bremen service provider and the local restaurants for the deletion of the data from the contact recording. It is clear that the data from the Corona contact recording must be deleted after one month and general reservation data must also be deleted if they are no longer needed. Companies and other companies that have a corresponding (presumed) data p If you find out about yourself, you are obliged under Article 33 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) to report this to us. We recommend that companies that were customers of the Bremen service provider check this as soon as possible in order to avoid sanctions for failure to report The gastronomy explains Kugelmann: "Contact recording in Corona times can generally be done digitally, provided that the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation are observed. This can even be better than poorly maintained paper lists if done well in terms of data protection. For example, technical and organizational measures must be taken so that the data is adequately secured and only authorized persons can access it. The persons responsible must also inform the users in a data protection declaration, among other things, about the data processing, the storage period and their rights (Art. 13 DS-GVO). As the body responsible for data protection in Rhineland-Palatinate, we request information promptly in order to be able to check whether all data protection requirements are taken into account in the app presented."Kugelmann emphasizes: "Contact data that is used in times of the corona pandemic to track Covid19 infections are recorded and stored are sensitive data: they may reveal who met whom, where, and at what time. The privacy of the citizens must be protected in any case. Even in times of the Corona crisis, the level of data protection in the European Union and in Germany must not be undermined: data protection and health protection must go hand in hand."
                                return
                            



