Ms Ďuriš Nicholsonová
Member of the European Parliament

by e-mail only

Dear Ms Ďuriš Nicholsonová,

17.07.2020

Ref: OUT-2020-0089

Thank you very much for following up on the recent EDPB letter with regard to the need for common
guidance on the application of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and other relevant
legal instruments of the EU in matters of data protection, in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemics.

You now address the EDPB, asking additional questions on the use of contact tracing as part of a
comprehensive  approach  to  address  the  COVID-19  health  related  crisis.  More  specifically,  your
concerns span over four issues broadly related to potential discrepancies in the various measures
envisaged in the Member States, the applicability of those measures in connection with the duration
of the emergency, the implementation of DPIAs for contact tracing solutions and the use of similar
technical tools to enforce social distancing where this requirement is in place.

Let  me  preliminarily  clarify  that the  GDPR  does  not  envisage the suspension  of data protection
principles and individuals’ rights in case of emergencies; in fact, it explicitly mentions (rec. 46) the
relevance of processing personal data for humanitarian purposes, including epidemics, within the
framework of legal conditions such as the necessity to protect the vital interests of the data subject
or of another natural person, or the performance of a task carried out in the public interest. Both are
applicable legal bases for the processing, in compliance with art. 6(1)d and art. 6(1)e respectively. Also,
the GDPR in art. 23 allows Member States to restrict, by way of a legislative measure, the scope of a
number  of  specific  obligations  and  rights  when  such  a  restriction  respects  the  essence  of  the
fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  and  is  a  necessary  and  proportionate measure  in  a  democratic
society1. Similarly, the e-privacy Directive in art 15 allows Member States to adopt legislative measures
to restrict the scope of the rights and obligations with respect to the processing of personal data in
the electronic communication sector, for a limited number of purposes in the public interest and with
the same caveat in terms of necessity and proportionality of the said legislative measures.

Regarding more specifically your questions, the EDPB is aware that multiple stakeholders believe a
harmonized approach within the EU in contact tracing applications may help de-escalation of the
epidemics. Its  Members are monitoring  the  situation  at  national  level,  surveying  both  the  legal
instruments that are being enacted and the technical implementation of the contact tracing apps.

1 The EDPB has recently adopted a statement on data subject rights restrictions in connection to the state of
emergency in Member States (2 June 2020)
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/ine/statement-restrictions-data-subject-rights-
connection-state

1

Further, the EDPB has very recently issued a statement on the issue of interoperability of contact
tracing applications2.

As  for your  second  question,  it  is  very  difficult  to  make  any  prediction  on  the  duration  of  this
emergency and to modulate the actions depending on the severity, or any potential new rise of the
epidemics. Nevertheless, respect  of  the  general  principles  of  effectiveness,  necessity,  and
proportionality remains  paramount  in  all  cases.  The  EDPB  has  repeatedly  stated  that  the  data
processed in the context of contact tracing applications should be limited to the bare minimum when
the implementation of such apps is useful, and that once such applications are not deemed anymore
necessary for the original purpose, these systems should not remain in use, and as a general rule, the
collected data should be erased or anonymised. Practically, this can be done also in an asynchronous
way when “return to normal” is decided by the competent public authorities, with a procedure that
terminates the  collection  of  identifiers and activates the  deletion  of  all  collected  data  from  all
databases.

In your letter, you put forward the argument that having to go through a mandatory data protection
impact assessment (DPIA) might delay the implementation of contact tracing applications at national
level. The EDPB has clarified that the DPIA is a crucial step in addressing high risk situations as well as
an integral part of the overall design of any technical solution3. The assessment of risks to individuals’
rights and freedoms, and the strategies to mitigate those risks cannot be separated from the technical
implementation: they jointly make up the privacy by design approach promoted by the GDPR. This is
the norm, and the EDPB has provided criteria to arrange a DPIA4 in many contexts that can be usefully
considered by data controllers in this phase to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of contact
tracing solutions. National DPAs are also available as always to provide advice and guidance quickly
and effectively, in the light of those common criteria but taking account of the specificities of the
individual solutions.

Finally, you refer to Member States’ possible intention to launch additional tracking applications for
enforcing home quarantine or social distancing restrictions. To the knowledge of the EDPB, this is not
the scope of the current contact tracing applications, which are only aimed at detecting potential
contacts  with COVID-19-positive  persons  in  order  to  facilitate  the  delivery  of  the  appropriate
information to the concerned persons, and to increase the effectiveness of the subsequent health
care procedures. Should other tools be developed at national level for those different enforcement
purposes, they should be regulated in compliance with the EU and national data protection legal
framework on the basis of a thorough legal and technical analysis and in line with the general data
protection by design approach mentioned above.

2 https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/drugo/statement-data-protection-impact-
interoperability-contact-tracing_en
3 This DPIA may be performed in the context of the adoption of the legal basis used for the processing in line
with Art 35 (10) GDPR.
4 See WP29 guidelines (adopted by the EDPB) on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining
whether processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679

2

I would like to thank you for your continued interest in the work of the EDPB. The EDPB will continue
to proactively monitor the situation and provide Guidance when necessary.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

3

