                                                                  
                                                   

 

Press release from the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments from November 19, 2020

 
 
 
 

 

 

Data protection conference meets for the 100th time

 
 
The conference of the independent federal and state data protection authorities
(DSK) will meet on November 25th and 26th, 2020 in a video conference for the 100th
meeting since its inception. The Saxon data protection
commissioned by Andreas Schurig. Themes of the anniversary event will
the u. the inventory data information procedure for security authorities and
intelligence services, the proposed lifting of secure end-to-end
Encryption in telecommunications, implementation still pending
of the ePrivacy Directive and the processing of personal data at the
be pandemic control.

Schurig: "During the 42 years of its existence, the DSK has repeatedly dealt with
rover's topics, from the 1983 census to dealing with the personal
personal data of people who have tested positive for corona during the current pandemic. she
forms a significant counterweight to the specialist ministerial conferences at federal
level. We have always been guided by the interests of the persons concerned,
of state or private interventions in their fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights
to be spared or, if they were unavoidable, that such interventions
are at least proportionate."

Since the applicability of the General Data Protection Regulation from May 25, 2018
one focus of the DSK is to support the German representatives in the EU
European Data Protection Committee. Furthermore, the DSK deals intensively with
the digitization of the economy and administration. For example, she advises the IT
Planning Council, the central body for cooperation between the federal and state governments
in information technology.

The DSK usually meets twice a year. She summarizes her findings in legal terms
non-binding resolutions, decisions, guidance and application
instructions together. Your addressees are the legislature, the public
as well as private and public managers. Recent examples include the
Resolution on the digital sovereignty of public administrations (22 September 2020),
the guide to video conferencing systems (October 23, 2020) or the resolution
for the use of thermal imaging cameras or electronic temperature recording in the
In the context of the corona pandemic (September 10, 2020).

 

 


 
 
The DSK is assisted by its specialist working groups, e.g. B. the working groups “credit bureaus”,
“Employee Data Protection”, “Health and Social Affairs”, “Justice”, “Security”, “Statistics
tik” or “tax administration”. For example, the "Technology" working group prepared the above
Guide to video conferencing systems.

                                                                  
                                                   

 

The first DSK took place on December 7, 1978 under the Hessian presidency.
The presidency rotates – usually in alphabetical order of countries and
of the federal government – annually.

Further information can be found on the DSK homepage:
https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/

 

Questions to Mr. Andreas Schneider, spokesman for the Saxon data
protection officer, 0351 – 85471-120; andreas.schneider@slt.sachsen.de

 

 

 

