Guidelines 06/2022 on the practical implementation

of amicable settlements

Version 2.0

Adopted on 12 May 2022

Adopted

1

Version history

Version 2.0

12 May 2022

Version 1.0

18 November 2021

Adoption of Guidelines 06/2022
Only  minor  editorial  adjustments  were  made in
comparison  to  Version  1.0,
for  the  purpose  of
publication.
Adoption of Internal EDPB Document 06/2021
The EDPB members decided to discuss the publication
of the document after a period of 6 months, allowing
the EDPB members to gain experience from practice
during that time

Adopted

2

Table of contents
1
2

SCOPE AND AIM .............................................................................................................................. 4
DEFINITION OF THE TERM “AMICABLE SETTLEMENT”.................................................................... 5
General context....................................................................................................................... 5
GDPR context........................................................................................................................... 6
The aim of amicable settlements in general ........................................................................... 8
GENERAL LEGAL ANALYSIS .............................................................................................................. 9
The power to reach an amicable settlement as one of the powers vested in SAs ................. 9
The amicable settlement procedure in the OSS context ...................................................... 10

2.1
2.2
2.3

3.1
3.2

3

4

Amicable settlement achieved by the complaint-receiving CSA in the preliminary

3.2.1
vetting phase................................................................................................................................. 10
3.2.2
Amicable settlement attempted by the LSA ................................................................. 11
3.2.3
Cases under Article 56(2) .............................................................................................. 15
LEGAL CONSEQUENCES AND PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS .................................................. 16
4.1
Application of the principle of good administration to the amicable settlement procedure in
the OSS context................................................................................................................................. 16
4.2
The cooperation procedure following an amicable settlement achieved by the LSA .......... 17
Amicable settlement in Article 56(2) cases........................................................................... 18
4.3
Annex 1: RELEVANT STEPS WHEN HANDLING A CASE VIA AMICABLE SETTLEMENT............................ 19
Annex 2: COUNTRIES WHERE AMICABLE SETTLEMENTS ARE NOT POSSIBLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE NATIONAL LEGISLATION................................................................................................................. 22

Adopted

3

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70(1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter
“GDPR”),
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES

1 SCOPE AND AIM

1.

2.

Practice  has  shown  that  many  supervisory  authorities  (hereinafter  “SAs”) apply the instrument of
amicable  settlement when  dealing  with  complaints. It  is  as  well  noticeable  that there  are  diverse
variations  of amicable  settlements and  that  they are therefore handled  differently  by  SAs due  to
differing domestic legislations. The GDPR uses the term “amicable settlement” only in Recital 131 in
reference to the handling of local cases under Article 56(2) GDPR, but does not explicitly limit the
possibilities to facilitate such local cases. The resulting lacuna in regulation of amicable settlements for
non-local cases has been filled in divergent ways, some by way of Member State law, others by way of
interpretation. Given these different interpretations and given the differing national laws governing
complaint handling and amicable settlements (if at all present), the practical implementation of the
instrument of amicable settlements differs considerably among Member States.

The powers of the SAs should be exercised in accordance with specific requirements in their Member
State procedural law. This applies also to the handling of cases. However, national procedural law must
comply with the principles of equivalence and effectiveness and may hence not render excessively
difficult or practically impossible the exercise of the rights conferred by EU law (i.e. the GDPR). Through
these Guidelines, the EDPB therefore seeks to provide best practices for a consistent application of the
GDPR  at  national  and  EU  level,  to  the  extent  appropriate for  the  application of the instrument of
amicable settlement, taking into account the various national procedural legislations – insofar as such
an instrument has been implemented explicitly – the procedure of the OSS mechanism under the
GDPR, and the technical environment (IMI).

3.

Cases  handled  by  SAs  can  have  origins other  than  complaints,  for  example  cases  based  on media
reports  or  ex  officio  investigations. However, the  present  guidance  will  address  the  practical

1 References to “Member States”  made throughout these  Guidelines should  be  understood  as  references  to
“EEA Member States”.

Adopted

4

implementation of amicable settlements only for cases that originated as a complaint from a data
subject since the possibility of a settlement postulates the existence of a dispute between two entities,
in this case the complaint lodged by a data subject against a data controller (see also paragraph 2.1
below).  Furthermore,  such  complaints  can  be  divided  into (i) national  cases  without  cross-border
character, (ii) cases where the OSS mechanism applies because the case is cross-border in nature, and
(iii) cross-border cases that are handled locally pursuant to Article 56(2) GDPR. Again, even though
practice shows that amicable settlements are a possible course of action for all situations, the present
guidance will mainly address those complaints that are cross-border in nature.

2 DEFINITION OF THE TERM “AMICABLE SETTLEMENT”

2.1 General context

4.

5.

The GDPR does not define the meaning of the term “amicable settlement” and only refers to this
expression in Recital 131.2 The most relevant meanings of “settlement” are “an arrangement” and “an
official agreement intended to resolve a dispute or conflict”.The Oxford English Dictionary explains the
adjective “amicable” as “characterised by friendliness and absence of discord”.

The way amicable settlements are defined more generally in the legal profession and throughout other
international  documents provides some preliminary guidance for  determining  the  definition  of
amicable settlements. For example, the International Chamber of Commerce (“ICC”) provides a range
of  dispute  resolution  procedures  that  may  be  considered  “amicable  settlements”.3 The  principle
amicable settlement procedure at the ICC appears to be mediation, which is described as a “flexible
and consensual technique in which a neutral facility helps the parties reach a negotiated settlement of
their disputes.” According to the ICC, such settlements achieved through mediation are contractually
binding and widely enforceable. The World Trade Organization (“WTO”) uses amicable settlements as
“mutually agreed solutions”, which constitutes a “negotiated solution” between the involved parties
that allows for swift and tailored solution of a dispute. 4 Moreover, the European Union Intellectual
Property Office (“EUIPO”) refers to amicable settlements as a “process outside of the court resulting in

2 Recital 131 : “1Where another supervisory authority should act as a lead supervisory authority for the processing
activities  of  the  controller  or  processor  but  the  concrete  subject  matter  of  a  complaint  or  the  possible
infringement concerns only processing activities of the controller or processor in the Member State where the
complaint has been lodged or the possible infringement detected and the matter does not substantially affect
or is not likely to substantially affect data subjects in other Member States, the supervisory authority receiving a
complaint  or  detecting  or  being  informed  otherwise  of  situations  that  entail  possible  infringements  of  this
Regulation should seek an amicable settlement with the controller and, if this proves unsuccessful, exercise its
full range of powers. 2This should include: specific processing carried out in the territory of the Member State of
the supervisory authority or with regard to data subjects on the territory of that Member State; processing that
is carried out in the context of an offer of goods or services specifically aimed at data subjects in the territory of
the Member State of the supervisory authority; or processing that has to be assessed taking into account relevant
legal obligations under Member State law. “
3 https://iccwbo.org/dispute-resolution-services/mediation/icc-international-centre-for-adr/.
4 Wolfgang Alschner, Amicable Settlements of WTO Disputes: Bilateral Solutions in a Multilateral System, World
Trade Review, Volume 13 (1), 2014, p. 65-102.

Adopted

5

6.

7.

a solution negotiated between the parties […] through mediation”.5 The European Consumer Center
(“ECC”) also refers to amicable settlements6 as a form of “alternative dispute resolution procedures”,
as laid down in the Directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes7, as procedures
that  are “provided  by  neutral  out-of-court  bodies  such  as  conciliators,  mediators,  arbitrators,  the
ombudsman and complaints boards”,8 and in which “consumers and businesses attempt to resolve a
dispute jointly […] by hearing both parties, examining the legal situation, discussing possible solutions
and finally making a proposal for arbitration”.9

All in all, it appears that amicable settlements generally refer to alternative dispute resolutions through
proceedings that result in the cordial closure of a case. Whereas a settlement between the parties is
the outcome, the proceeding itself follows an amicable approach. The procedures can range from
party-to-party negotiations to formal mediations and even facilitated conciliation practices.

2.2 GDPR context

In the context of complaint handling by data protection authorities, most Member States see amicable
settlements as a process of “alternative dispute resolution”. In most cases, the amicable settlement is
facilitated where a complaint is lodged with the SA concerning the alleged violation of the GDPR, in
particular concerning data subjects’ rights, to resolve the case in the data subjects’ favour. In such
cases,  the settlement is  to  be  reached  between  the  controller  and  the  data  subject,  under  the
supervision of the SA, which moderates the course of events. Thus, the SA acts as a sort of facilitator
of the process aimed at settling the complaint. The SA, unlike an actual “mediator”, takes an active
part in the proceeding as it still has to fulfil its obligations as SA and is therefore required to handle the
complaint, to investigate the subject matter of the complaint with its specifics to an appropriate extent,
and to inform the data subject on the progress or the outcome regarding the complaint.

8. Given the relative silence of the GDPR on amicable settlements, which alternative dispute resolution
process is followed and the requirements and conditions that govern that process, will largely depend
on each particular Member State’s law and policy. An analysis of standing practice shows that, when
dealing with amicable settlements, the majority of the national legal systems include the receiving SA,
the controller (or processor) and the data subject in the proceeding, as well as, if applicable, also the
Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA).

9.

It should be noted that in some Member States, the data subject is not a party to the administrative

5 EUIPO, Decision No. 2013-3 of the Presidium of the Board of Appeal of 5 July 2013 on the amicable settlement
of disputes (“Decision on Mediation”), https://euipo.europa.eu/ohimportal/en/mediation#.
6 https://europa.eu/youreurope/citizens/consumers/consumers-dispute-resolution/informal-dispute-
resolution/index_en.htm
7 Directive 2013/11/EU on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes and amending Regulation (EC)
No 2006/2004 and Directive 2009/22/EC
8 https://europa.eu/youreurope/citizens/consumers/consumers-dispute-resolution/out-of-court-
procedures/index_en.htm
9 E.g. the German equivalent website https://www.evz.de/einkaufen-internet/odr-adr/beratung-
schlichtung.html

Adopted

6

proceedings against the controller. In such Member States, the SA may use a similar dispute resolution
process to what is described in these Guidelines and close a case if it deems that the controller has
fulfilled the claims, but without hearing the data subject. Such resolution processes will however not
be addressed in these Guidelines.

10. Amicable settlements are mainly regarded to be possible at any stage of a proceeding, even though
some SAs indicate that they are only possible in the early stages of case consideration, before any other
action has been taken. In some Member States, amicable settlements are only applicable in local cases,
due to the fact that the GDPR uses this term only in Recital 131, where an approach by the Concerned
Supervisory Authority (CSA) in local cases is described accordingly. However, the majority of the SAs
declare the instrument of an amicable settlement permissible in any kind of cases, regardless of their
cross-border or otherwise local nature.

11. Regarding Recital 131, the scope for such agreements is limited to cases in which the CSA receiving the
complaint finds that the concrete subject matter or the possible infringement concerns only processing
activities of the controller or processor in the Member State where the complaint has been lodged, or
(likely) does not substantially affect data subjects in other Member States. The choice whether to seek
an amicable settlement should then include, as the Recital states, (i) the specific processing carried out
in the territory of the Member State or with regard to data subjects on the territory of that Member
State, (ii) processing that is carried out in the context of an offer of goods or services specifically aimed
at data subjects in the territory of the Member State, or (iii) processing that has to be assessed taking
into  account  relevant  legal  obligations  under  Member  State  law.  Legislations explicitly allowing
amicable settlements, on the other hand, may not be limited to these requirements.

12.

In  principle,  the choice whether  an  amicable  settlement  may  or  may  not  be  pursued depends on
Member State law and/or the discretion of the SA involved. Regarding the criteria on the basis of which
cases may be considered appropriate for amicable resolution, such criteria could on the one hand
include the manner in which the SA has come to know of the case. The procedure of an amicable
settlement could therefore only be deemed applicable in cases where a complaint has been lodged.

13. Amicable  settlements should in  general only  be  considered  possible  in  cases  concerning  the  data
subjects’ rights laid down in Articles 12 et seq. of the GDPR, given that only then the data subject can
dispose of his or her own rights as a party to the settlement. However, with due regard to national
legislation of individual Member States, such decision is subject to the discretion of the SA as it has to
assess the broader picture of the individual case.

14. On the other hand, the factual circumstances of the case could be decisive. Such special circumstances
under which it is determined whether an amicable settlement may or may not be conducted can be
governed by national regulations, whereas the GDPR remains silent on the matter (apart from Recital
131). In practice, the following general criteria could guide the SA in taking the decision to initiate an
amicable settlement procedure: There is a likelihood for the case to be solved amicably at all; only a
limited  amount  of  data  subjects  is  affected and whether  or  not  there  is  a systemic  failure

Adopted

7

recognisable;10 the data protection violation is incidental or accidental (in the sense of negligence); the
case involves the processing of a limited number of personal data; the effects of the violation are not
of serious duration and nature (meaning that there are no severe consequences or infringements of
freedoms  and  rights). Moreover,  the  likelihood  of  further  violations  in  the  future  might  be  a
determining factor. In addition, the broader societal significance and public interest of enforcement
action on the part of the SA, also in light of any identified areas of special vigilance, as well as the extent
to which an SA is able to take effective and efficient action can be decisive.

Example 1:
A controller or processor accepts to provide any information requested by a supervisory authority to
resolve a complaint, such as clear proof that it has complied with Articles 33 and 34 of the GDPR in
case of a personal data breach. The reason why the request was not fulfilled right away (in line with
Article 12 GDPR) was based on a discrepancy in the internal communication process.

15. Notwithstanding, it is important to note that any SA has the right to further investigate the issue even
after an amicable settlement has been reached, albeit in a different or other procedure on own volition.
The authority may continue the proceedings ex officio if, for example, it considers that a fine should
be imposed or receives other similar complaints about the same controller, leading to the conclusion
that the controller has not fulfilled their commitment to remedy data protection violation(s), or if the
complaint and/or the investigations reveal other, possibly systemic infringements that may have wider
consequences or impacts on other data subjects. The same applies when the amicable settlement
concerns  only  parts  of  a  complaint,  whereas  other  or  additional  issues  of  the  case  are  handled
otherwise. Furthermore, an amicable resolution does not preclude the data subject from reverting to
the SA, should it turn out (later) that the data controller did not comply with their resolution as agreed.
These circumstances should be communicated in a clear and transparent way to the controller and to
the complainant before an amicable settlement is reached.

Example 2:
The data subject makes a complaint that a controller is seeking a passport as a means of identification
in order to delete an account held by the data subject on the controller’s platform. The SA deems the
individual  complaint  suitable  for  attempted  amicable  settlement,  in  that  the data  subject may  be
satisfied if the demand for a passport is rescinded, and the account deleted. However, the SA opens
an own-volition inquiry in to the controller’s policies around data processing in respect of platform
accounts, in order to ensure that the controller brings its policies into compliance with the provisions
of the GDPR.

2.3 The aim of amicable settlements in general

16.

In addition to reaching an outcome which is satisfactory for the data subject, amicable settlements are
tools to achieve compliance with the GDPR by the controller. In case a complaint is lodged because a

10 Cf. Example 2 below regarding this criterion.

Adopted

8

controller has not fulfilled the data subject rights pursuant to Articles 12 to 22 GDPR, the enforcement
of data subject rights can be expedited by an amicable arrangement between the actors. The yardstick
against which the successful amicable resolution of the complaint is measured should include two
elements: on the one hand, the satisfaction of the data subject achieved in the specific case in relation
to the specific issues raised in the complaint and, on the other hand, where applicable and required by
national law, the proof provided by the controller to the SA that it has met the data subject's requests
and complied with the applicable data protection requirements. However, the SA should determine in
practice, and by having regard to the circumstances of the case and to the given cooperation with other
SAs involved in the case, whether the amicable settlement is enough to achieve full compliance with
the GDPR in the light of the legal issues surrounding or arising from the individual complaint against
the individual controller.

17. Thus, amicable settlements should be understood broadly as one of the options for an SA to address
data subjects’ complaints and ensure the protection of data subject rights. At the same time, it must
be recognized that amicable settlements may not be an appropriate solution for every case. While it is
for the SAs themselves to determine whether an amicable settlement may or may not be pursued in a
given case, such assessment must be carried out on the basis of structured, uniform, transparent and
explainable  criteria,  such as  the ones mentioned  in  paragraph 12 et  seq.,  and  taking  into  account
provisions of national law, where existent.

18. The SA’s corrective powers are of paramount importance for the enforcement and maintenance of the
high level of protection which the GDPR seeks to create for all data subjects, who are often in a difficult
or  even dependent position  vis-à-vis  the  controller.  Resolving  a  dispute  through  the  procedure  of
amicable settlements with an SA handling the process comparable to a facilitator can then be a way to
address and handle such imbalance and to find a solution that is acceptable for each party, especially
the data subject as regards the fulfilment of his or her rights.

3 GENERAL LEGAL ANALYSIS

3.1 The power to reach an amicable settlement as one of the powers vested in SAs

19. An amicable settlement procedure finds its legal basis in the tasks directly conferred on SAs by the
GDPR (Article 57(1)(a) and (f) GDPR) and additionally in the powers granted to SAs by a national law
within the framework of Article 58(6) GDPR, where this exists.

20.

In the first case, Article 57(1)(a) and (f) GDPR generally apply, providing sound foundations for a SA to
seek all possible avenues to “handle” complaints (see paragraph 1(f) of Article 57) and “enforce” (see
paragraph 1(a) of Article 57) the application of the Regulation as appropriate. Article 57(1)(f) read in
conjunction with Article 77 and 78 implies an individual right to have every complaint (if admissible)
handled and investigated to the extent necessary to reach an outcome appropriate to the nature and
circumstances of that complaint. However, it falls within the discretion of each competent supervisory
authority to decide the extent to which a complaint should be investigated. An outcome could e.g. be

Adopted

9

that the parties to the complaint through the intervention of the SA have settled the case amicably.

21. SAs may, in the second scenario, be empowered by Member States to exercise additional powers
pursuant to national law, as per Article 58(6) GDPR. The specifics of operational case handling matters
for a SA (including a LSA) to reach an amicable resolution are to be found in these national provisions.

3.2 The amicable settlement procedure in the OSS context

22.

In order to assess the role of the amicable settlement in the context of the OSS procedure, reference
can be made in the first place to the rationale of such procedure as set out in Article 60(1) GDPR. As
clarified in the EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR11, “Article 60(1) lays
down basic and overarching principles, which apply throughout the entire cooperation between SAs.
In accordance with the wording of this Article, the key concepts of the cooperation procedure consist
of ‘an  endeavour to  reach consensus’ and  the  obligation  to ‘exchange  all  relevant information’.”
Furthermore, “[…] these  obligations  are  to  be  complied  with  by  the  LSA  and  every  CSA  (mutual
obligation).”

3.2.1 Amicable settlement achieved by the complaint-receiving CSA in the preliminary

vetting phase

23. The EDPB wishes to point out that although amicable settlement is only mentioned in the context of
Recital 131, seeking for an amicable settlement may also be a good practice when an SA is handling a
case that does not fulfil the conditions laid down by Article 56.2 GDPR, depending on the national
procedural legislation.

24. Recital 131 as such does not prevent the CSA receiving a complaint from attempting, as part of the
preliminary vetting, to seek such a settlement in addition to establishing the “fully" cross-border nature
of that complaint. Nevertheless, the specific approach may depend on whether the controller has an
establishment on the territory of that receiving SA or not. As already clarified in Section 2, an inherent
feature of amicable settlement is the mutual satisfaction of the parties involved, most particularly the
complainant. If this is the case and the CSA can objectify such a satisfaction in advance, in the vetting
phase of the complaint, after e.g. the controller complied with the data subjects rights request to the
satisfaction of both the data subject and the receiving SA, the receiving SA should no longer inform the
LSA of the case through an Article 56 IMI notification, as the object of the complaint is no longer
present. Accordingly, there is no need to start an OSS procedure by uploading the case to the IMI.

25. According to Recital 125 the LSA is generally competent for adopting any legally binding decision on
the relevant controller or processor in an OSS context. Moreover, under Article 56(6) GDPR, the LSA is
the “sole interlocutor” of  the  controller/processor  for  the  cross-border  processing  in  question.
Therefore, the receiving SA should communicate the case and outcome to the LSA at an appropriate

11 Paragraphs 37 and 38 of the EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR.

Adopted

10

time, for instance on a quarterly basis (i.e.: through the voluntary mutual assistance), in line with the
cooperation requirement that is inherent in the whole OSS mechanism, in order for the LSA to be able
to take any action it deems appropriate in respect of the given controller.

26. This means that the LSA should be kept informed about the successful amicable settlements achieved
by the CSA in such a preliminary phase, also in aggregate format. More specific guidance in this respect
is provided in Section 4 below (‘Recommendations’).

27. Needless  to  say,  there  are  cases  where  the  settlement  achieved  by  the  CSA  with  the
controller/processor  may  be  only  a  partial  one,  i.e.  not  all  the  requests  are  granted,  so  that  the
involvement of the LSA becomes indispensable with a view to providing all the remedies envisaged by
the GDPR to the data subject.

28. LEGAL CONSEQUENCES: The amicable settlement that a CSA is empowered to achieve as part of the
preliminary vetting activity in respect of the received complaint may make it unnecessary to initiate an
Article 60 procedure insofar as the settlement achieved is to the full satisfaction of the parties involved.
If this is not the case and due to the principle to the right to good administration in Art. 41 EUChFR
which also applies to OSS cases, the LSA should then consider the reasons why the amicable settlement
could not be reached within the preliminary phase by the CSA and decide whether another attempt
could lead to a conclusion of the complaint within a reasonable time.

3.2.2 Amicable settlement attempted by the LSA

29. Where the LSA decides to attempt an amicable settlement after receiving the case, a key requirement
to be met stems, once again, from the rationale of the OSS cooperation procedure, i.e. the need for
CSAs and LSA to cooperate in an endeavour to reach consensus.

30.

It is important to state that the EDPB acknowledges that, in any stage of the proceeding, the LSA is at
liberty  to  give  a  formal  hearing  to  the  data  subject  (through  the  complaint-receiving  CSA  as
interlocutor) and, with the agreement of all parties involved (e.g. the data subject, the controller, the
CSA(s) and possibly third parties), to close a case after the alleged infringement has been rectified even
in  the  absence  of  specific  domestic  regulation.  The  LSA  may  do  so  if  it  considers  the  information
gathered from the case investigations sufficient to bring the case to such form of closure. This form of
settlement  could  be  understood  as  a  due diligence approach  due  to  the  margin  of  discretion  in
determining the conditions and requirements in case handling, as it provides a solution that enables
SAs to maintain the high level of protection that the GDPR seeks to create by recognising that some
cases can be solved efficiently by facilitating interaction between the parties. It can carry advantages
for the complainant, whose rights under the GDPR are vindicated swiftly, as well as for the controller,
who is provided the opportunity to bring its behaviour into compliance with the GDPR.

31. This means that the LSA should be mindful of the need to keep the CSAs in the loop at all stages of the
proceeding. Indeed, whilst the LSA is unquestionably the sole interlocutor for the controller involved

Adopted

11

(see, again, Article 56(6) GDPR), the complainant has his or her one-stop-shop in the competent CSA
that received his or her complaint.

32. This mutual exchange of information is also a means to ensure compliance with due process and the
right of the complainant to be heard in the procedure attempted by the LSA, partly with a view to
submitting his or her views on top of the information already provided by the CSA. This is where the
LSA’s role is key in acting as the facilitator of the whole process through the exchange of information
and  documents  with  the  CSA. It  should  also  be  recalled  that  the  LSA’s  discretion  in  handling  the
complaint by way of an attempt at achieving an amicable settlement between the data subject and the
controller is bound to be impacted by the information and documents exchanged under Article 60(1)
GDPR, especially if the CSA has already unsuccessfully attempted such an amicable settlement in the
vetting phase.

33.

Indeed, the LSA choosing the amicable settlement as a way to resolve the dispute with the controller
should be mindful of the likelihood for such an approach to lead to a successful outcome, i.e. to the
vindication of the data subject’s rights, in the light of all the relevant circumstances, including the
expectations of the CSA that has transferred the complaint to it under the requirements of Article 56(1)
GDPR. Where a CSA communicates under Article 60(1), in particular, that such an attempt has already
been made unsuccessfully in the vetting phase, whether on account of the data subject’s refusal to
accept the settlement with the controller or on account of the controller’s failure to reply to the CSA’s
invitation to comply with the data subject’s request, the LSA should consider very carefully whether a
new attempt to settle the complaint amicably does serve the interests of the data subjects, and data
protection law in general. A more formalised approach in which the LSA exerts all its authority vis-à-vis
the controller also under Article 58 GDPR might be the preferable action. The same applies if the CSA
has made no such attempt prior to transferring the complaint to the LSA, on whatever grounds, and
has accordingly communicated nothing in this respect to the LSA. In both cases, the attention paid by
the LSA to the likelihood for success of the amicable settlement option will enable the LSA to select the
most appropriate way for tackling the case at hand, reducing unnecessary administrative burden and
avoiding the risk of resource intensive OSS procedures to address the concerns and doubts, or even
the reasoned and relevant objections, of the CSA(s).

34.

If the LSA comes to the conclusion that an amicable settlement is appropriate in the case at hand, it
will have to consider that the settlement is part of an OSS procedure and will have to act accordingly.
The EDPB has already clarified in the Article 60 Guidelines, that “in order to facilitate the reaching of
consensus, the information should be shared at a moment where it is still possible for the LSA to take
on  board  the  viewpoints  of  the  CSAs.  This  […]  should  prevent  CSAs  from  being  presented  with
accomplished facts, for example because certain stages of the proceedings may be precluded under
national law.”12

35.

In the context of an amicable settlement procedure, this means that the LSA is expected to share the

12 Paragraph 55 of the EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR.

Adopted

12

proposed settlement with the CSA(s) prior to finalising it, pursuant to Article 60(3), first sentence. As
pointed out by the EDPB in the Article 60 Guidelines, “[…] the CSAs’ involvement in the cooperation
procedure is not limited to the right to express a relevant and reasoned objection pursuant to Article
60(4). In particular, before the creation of the draft decision the CSAs should be able to contribute to
the overall procedure and may express their views also before the creation of the draft decision.”13

36. Clearly it is left to the LSA’s discretion, in light of all the factors mentioned in the foregoing paragraphs,
to establish whether an informal consultation of the CSA(s) is indeed necessary in the case at hand. As
recalled above in  paragraphs 12  et seq.,  the  features of  the  complaint  lending  itself  to  be  settled
amicably may arguably  enable  the LSA and  the  CSA,  based  also  on  the  information  exchanged
beforehand under Article 60(1) at the time the complaint is transferred to the LSA, to already form
their views as to the possibility of settling the complaint to the full satisfaction of the complainant by
removing the cause of the dispute at its root. In such a case, the LSA may well determine that the
settlement of the complaint can be directly the subject of the draft decision to be submitted under
Article 60(3) GDPR. Where the CSA communicated that no settlement was achieved successfully by it
in the vetting phase or that it simply did not attempt any settlement prior to transferring the case to
the LSA, the LSA should conversely be mindful of the consensus objective of the OSS procedure and
seek such an informal consultation of the CSA(s) beforehand to assess whether an (or another) attempt
could lead to a conclusion of the complaint in a reasonable manner.

37. Ultimately, the LSA will be required to submit a draft decision to the CSAs setting out the terms of the
settlement (including the  steps  demonstrably  taken  by  the  data  controller/processor  to  grant  the
requests made by the complainants to their full satisfaction) in accordance with Article 60(3) GDPR. As
clarified in the Article 60 guidance, the LSA is required to submit a draft decision to the CSAs in all cases,
also  when  complaints  are  withdrawn  by  the complainant  after  the  Article  60  procedure  has  been
initiated or where no material (final) decision is issued according to national law.14 The same applies
when cases are (only) deemed to be withdrawn, e.g. following national law. In such a case, the draft
decision  serves  as  a  final  coordination  between  all  supervisory  authorities  involved  in  the  OSS
procedure.15

38. As stated above, the draft decision will serve to consolidate the settlement achieved by the LSA with
the agreement of the CSAs. It will be a ‘sui generis’ decision finding that the complaint has been settled
by  the  LSA  with  the  mutual  satisfaction  of  the  parties  involved  (particularly data  subject,  data
controller), whereby such satisfaction will have to be signalled in line with the requirements of the
LSA’s  national  law, and  that  the  handling  of  the  case will  be  terminated accordingly. Indeed,  the
complaint  is  neither  dismissed  nor  rejected  by  the  LSA,  but  it  is  not  granted  either;  the  amicable
settlement achieved represents from this standpoint a different outcome to terminate the complaint
handling procedure in the OSS context by way of an agreement between the parties that eliminates
the cause of the litigation through the action taken by the LSA.

13 Paragraph 93 of the EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR.
14 Paragraph 99 of the EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR.
15 Paragraph 100 of the EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR.

Adopted

13

39. With the formal submission of such an instrument as necessitated by the OSS procedure for legal
certainty and transparency reasons, the 4-week period for reactions by the CSA(s) pursuant to Article
60(4) GDPR will start. In this respect, it should be emphasized that if proper exchange of information
took place before the submission of the draft decision as explained in the foregoing paragraphs, and
the CSA(s) never indicated any doubts that the complaint could be settled amicably, also in the spirit
of cooperation, they should carefully consider whether they intend to raise objections to the finding of
the achieved settlement.

40. This is not to say that CSAs are barred from raising reasoned and relevant objections in these situations;
however, the whole rationale of an amicable settlement lies in achieving substantiated satisfaction of
the data subject (and the controller) timely and on the basis of a mutual agreement whose chance of
success in the OSS context is gauged by the LSA in the light of several factors as recalled above. All in
all, reasoned  and  relevant  objections should  be  exceptional  in  amicable settlement  cases, if  the
consensus objective has been taken into due account by the LSA in handling the procedure; thus,
rounds of revised draft decisions and/or dispute resolutions could (and should) be avoided.

41.

42.

If there are no (longer) reasoned and relevant objections, the procedure leads to the situation under
Article 60(6), i.e. the draft decision will become binding on the LSA and the CSAs. Subsequently, as per
Article  60(7),  the  lead  supervisory  authority  shall  adopt  and  notify  the  decision  to  the  main
establishment or single establishment of the controller or processor, as the case may be including a
summary of the relevant facts and grounds. The CSA with which the complaint had been lodged shall
inform the complainant on the decision.

It was explained in paragraph 15 above that the amicable settlement is not intended necessarily to
cover the whole of the subject matter of a complaint, i.e. there may be parts of a complaint that the
LSA does not find amenable to being settled amicably. As already pointed out in paragraphs 33 et seq.,
this would probably require that LSA to carefully consider whether an amicable settlement is at all
appropriate even for the other parts. Nevertheless, should the LSA find that it is appropriate to settle
certain parts of a complaint and proceed with handling the remaining queries by way of a ‘standard’
(i.e. non-amicable) approach, this will clearly reflect on the whole procedure and its outcome.

43. The different options at issue in such a composite situation will have to be represented to the CSAs
prior to uploading the draft decision, which will then have to contain reasoning as to which aspects of
the complaint were settled finally by way of the amicable settlement and which aspects led the LSA to
dismiss  or  reject,  or  else  grant,  the  data subject’s  requests. For the  latter aspects  (i.e.  partial
rejection/dismissal),  the  subsequent  steps of the  OSS  procedure will  be  regulated  by  Article 60(9)
GDPR. The LSA may also decide that those other parts of the complaint will need to be investigated
further, and  may  therefore  propose  different  solutions  to  the  CSA(s),  including  the  opening  of  a
separate own  volition procedure for  those  parts;  this will  have  to  be referenced  clearly  in the
information accompanying the draft decision as well.

Adopted

14

Example 3:
In a complaint received and vetted by the CSA the data subject alleges that the controller did not
reply to his request to exercise his right of access to his personal data under Article 15 GDPR and
accordingly did not enable him to request rectification under Article 16 GDPR of what he believes is
inaccurate  information  held  concerning  him. The  CSA  did  not  attempt  to  settle  the  complaint
amicably. The LSA receiving the complaint from the CSA considers that there is room for attempting
an amicable settlement in light of the relevant features; it then informs the CSA of its intention to do
so and receives the assent of the CSA (which will have contacted the complainant in this respect).
The LSA contacts the controller and invites it to comply with the requests. The controller complies
with  the  access  request,  however it does  not  intend  to  rectify  the  information  held  on  the
complainant on account of a payment claim that is pending against the complainant on the basis of
such information. The LSA submits a draft decision to the CSA containing a short description of the
case, the proposed settlement of the access request and the relevant terms; at the same time, the
LSA  informs the  CSA that  a  separate  case  will  be  opened  to  investigate  the rejection  of  the
complainant’s  rectification  request by  the  controller.  In  the  absence  of reasoned  and  relevant
objections by the CSA, the LSA will adopt the decision on the amicable settlement of the access
request and notify it to the controller whilst the CSA will inform the complainant thereof in pursuance
of Article 60(7), second sentence, of the GDPR.

3.2.3 Cases under Article 56(2)

44. A derogation from the OSS rule is represented by the so-called “local case” situation under Article 56(2)
GDPR. Reference can be made in this respect, as already pointed out16, to Recital 131 which mentions
the “amicable settlement” in connection with cross-border “processing activities” having local impact.

45.

Indeed, Recital 131 has to be taken also into account if the case has been found to be handled locally,
i.e. by the CSA that has received the complaint, under Article 56(2). Underpinning the options that SAs
have when it comes to case handling in such cases, Recital 131 serves as an interpretation aid. CSAs
are  expressly  invited  to  seek  amicable  settlement (“should  seek  an  amicable  settlement  with  the
controller”) when there is a case with sole local as well as minor impacts. Thus, Recital 131 suggests
that a CSA should preferably seek an amicable settlement in “local cases” (if at all feasible, again in the
light of the conditions set out in paragraphs 11 and 12).

46. As already pointed out, since cooperation in the OSS context is aimed at reaching “consensus” and
requires that “all relevant information” be exchanged between CSA and LSA, the LSA must be informed
of the settlements achieved, if any, as the “systemic” features of the infringement or non-compliance
underlying the complaint can only be assessed in full by the LSA.

47. The EDPB recalls, whilst the complainant may be satisfied with the settlement, in particular because
access was granted in full, their data were rectified as requested, or erasure of their data took place,
that settlement as reached by the CSA does not exhaust the remedies available to the LSA. Indeed,
irrespective of whether an amicable settlement has been reached, the LSA has the option of initiating

16 See paragraphs 23 and 24.

Adopted

15

an official investigation (ex officio) in this case, whereupon the entire OSS procedure is then activated
in accordance with Article 60 GDPR. The LSA may decide in all cases to investigate and take corrective
measures,  including  fines,  against  that  controller’s  main  establishment  in  cases of  repeated
infringements or of non-compliance with data subjects’ requests as communicated, inter alia, by other
CSAs in similar circumstances.

48.

In the context of an Article 56(2) procedure, the CSA should provide relevant information to the LSA as
well  as  consider  mutual  assistance,  and should put  in  place  measures  for  effective  cooperation,
including information on the outcome of the settlement and/or of the results of the exercise of its full
range of powers under Article 56(5) GDPR.

4 LEGAL CONSEQUENCES AND PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS

4.1 Application of the principle of good administration to the amicable settlement

procedure in the OSS context

49. The amicable settlement procedure in the context of the OSS as outlined above17 should be read in
light of the general principle of the right to good administration – and in line with the general principle
of due process as recalled in Recital 129 and Article 58(4) GDPR: That is to say, the amicable settlement
procedure, being applied by an SA empowered to deploy this type of administrative remedy, should
respect the principle of good administration and due process in all cases.18

50. When it receives a complaint, the CSA, in the first step, has to clarify its specific role19 according to
Articles  55  and  56  GDPR. The importance  of  the  “vetting”  phase  following the submission  of  a
complaint to an SA should be emphasized in this respect20, regardless of the route or pathway that the
particular case takes afterwards as the relevant elements shall be included in the file from an early
date.

51.

In the second step, the case in question must also be considered from the point of view of the parties
involved,  namely  the  data  subject  who  lodged  the  complaint,  the  controller(s)  and  possible
processor(s). Their relationship and the nature of the complaint will determine whether an amicable
settlement can lead to a solution, namely the controller's compliance with the GDPR and satisfaction
of the data subject. Last but not least, the outcome of such procedures for each SA and the legal
consequences for the parties involved will have to be examined in more detail to assess whether a case
is in the end suitable for an amicable settlement.

17 See Part 3 “General legal analysis”.
18 Which entails, as a minimum, the right of every person to be heard, before any individual measure which would
affect him or her adversely is taken; the right of every person to have access to his or her file, while respecting
the  legitimate  interests  of  confidentiality  and  of  professional  and  business  secrecy;  the  obligation  of  the
administration to give reasons for its decisions.
19 Lead or concerned Supervisory Authority ex Art. 56(1) GDPR.
20 See WP244 rev. 01 and paragraph 50 of the EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR.

Adopted

16

52.

If an amicable settlement is reached to the full satisfaction of all the parties concerned (objectified in
the manner recommended in the preceding section) within the preliminary vetting process (aimed also,
though not exclusively, to assess the applicability of Article 56(2) GDPR), the CSA where the complaint
was lodged should not pass on the complaint to the assumed LSA (e.g., through an Article 56 IMI
notification), as the object of the complaint is no longer present (cf. paragraph 24).

53. However, the receiving SA should communicate the case and the outcome to the LSA at an appropriate
time, for instance on a quarterly basis (e.g., through the Voluntary Mutual Assistance procedure). This
is meant to enable the LSA to fully discharge its role as “sole interlocutor” (for all intents and purposes)
of the controller/processor at issue (see Article 56(6) GDPR). If the CSA, in the course of the preliminary
vetting phase, does not manage to achieve an amicable settlement at all or only a settlement regarding
parts of  the  complaint  lodged  with  it  and  notified  to  the  LSA,  this  information  regarding  the
unsuccessful settlement should in any case be passed on to the LSA being unquestionably “relevant
information” in the sense of Article 60(1) GDPR.

4.2 The cooperation procedure following an amicable settlement achieved by the

LSA

54. The amicable settlement procedure should respect the conditions recalled, in particular, in the GDPR
(Article 60, Recitals 129 and 143) as it has to result in a decision by the competent SA (the LSA, in an
OSS context), after this decision has been found within the cooperation procedure. Reference should
be  made  in  this  regard  to  the  analysis  on  the  rationale  and  contents  of  the  draft  decision  to  be
submitted by the LSA, as contained in the Article 60 Guidance21 (see paragraphs 109-111 in particular).

55. Accordingly, the amicable settlement achieved in the OSS context regarding a complaint requires a
decision by the LSA in accordance with Article 60(3) GDPR as this is an obligation imposed on the LSA
in all cross-border processing cases. It will be a “sui generis” decision finding that the complaint has
been settled by the LSA with the mutual satisfaction of the parties involved (particularly data subject,
data controller).

56. An amicable settlement could be considered as the use of some of the SA’s powers which do not imply
the corrective powers referred to in Article 58(2). Nevertheless, as stated above (see paragraphs 15
and 43), depending on national law the LSA might not be prevented from using such powers even in
amicable settlement cases.

57. Accordingly, the draft decision should include the following information:
o that the complaint was settled amicably, in whole or in part,
o the reasons underlying the decision to seek an amicable settlement in the specific case,
o the scope of the amicable settlement in light of the overall issues addressed in the

complaint,

o that the handling of the specific complaint will be terminated.

21 EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR.

Adopted

17

58. The draft decision may also indicate that the alleged infringement was remedied and how this was

done.

59. Furthermore, if applicable, the draft decision and/or the relevant information given to the CSA(s) may
include information about any intended corrective measures, which may especially be the case when
the amicable settlement was only reached in part.

60.

In all cases the LSA should inform the data subject of the consequences of the amicable settlement in
a comprehensive way, in particular that the settlement will result in termination of the handling of the
complaint. This information on the scope of the amicable settlement and its consequences must be
conveyed by way of the CSA, which is the key interlocutor for the data subject in the whole process. To
that end, the informal procedures developed as part of the IMI-mechanisms can be used, in particular
an Art. 60 “Informal Consultation” procedure or an Art. 61 “Voluntary Mutual Assistance” procedure
can be launched by the LSA in order to convey the proposed outcome of the case and obtain views
from the CSAs involved before moving to the formal circulation of a draft decision.

61. As in the majority of Member States an amicable settlement applies only to the parties to the complaint
(data subject, controller/processor, and, if applicable, also SA), and the controller or processor commits
to a remedy of the infringement and the implementation of measures to ensure compliance with the
GDPR, the scope of the settlement may only cover parts of the complaint. In this case, the remaining
parts are subject to the LSA’s further investigation and decision.

4.3 Amicable settlement in Article 56(2) cases

62. Regarding amicable settlements in cases where a CSA handles a complaint under Article 56(2) (i.e., as
a local case) 22, the SA should be mindful of the need for transparency and consistency that underlies
the whole OSS system, and should therefore take care to provide regular (if aggregate) information to
other SAs regarding such cases.

63.

In particular, the CSA should inform the LSA about the settlement (if any) as outcome of the local case,
through the IMI system. Since the settlement may only cover part of the complaint handled locally by
the CSA, the CSA may take additional (including corrective) measures with regard to such remaining
parts that have not been settled to the satisfaction of the parties in the manner described above. The
CSA must inform the complainant according to Article 77(2) that the remaining parts of the complaint
will be processed.

22 Under Article 56(5) GDPR, the CSA “shall handle [the case] according to Articles 61 and 62”, i.e. by exercising
its full powers (also pursuant to Article 56(1) GDPR).

Adopted

18

ANNEX 1: RELEVANT STEPS WHEN HANDLING A CASE VIA AMICABLE

SETTLEMENT

64. The  following  check  list  intends  to describe the concrete steps  when handling cases  that  may  be
suitable for an amicable settlement. The check list is therefore not to be understood in the sense of a
‘yes/no’ chart showing different consequences, but rather as an overview of the concrete different
stages in the proceeding as well as of the relevant steps to take as a best practice. While section 1) is
to recall the basic facts of the case, not ticking one of the boxes in sections 2) to 5) could lead to the
authority having to take further steps.

Checklist: Steps in handling a case via amicable settlement

1) Background of the case

 How has the proceeding been started?

Complaint

-
- Media reports, ex officio investigations, etc.
-

Hints from third persons concerned

 What is the nature of the case?

-
-

Local case (Article 56(2) and Recital 131 GDPR)
Cross-border processing case



Case suitable for amicable settlement, because (cf. paragraph 14)

o limited amount of data subjects affected
o systemic failure not recognisable
o incidental or accidental data protection violation
o limited number of personal data
o effects of the violation not of serious duration/nature
o likelihood of further violations in the future
o no/little societal significance/public interest
o …

2) Early Cooperation with other SAs (where applicable)





Effects of any action already taken in the procedure
(e.g. for the LSA, if applicable: Has the CSA already attempted an amicable
settlement in the preliminary vetting?)
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

LSA consulted (where applicable)
-
-
-

Translated Version of complaint
Previous communication between data subject and controller
Other important information

Adopted

□
□
□

□
□

□
□
□
□
□
□
□

□
□
□
□

19

 Other CSA(s) consulted

-
-

Translated Version of complaint
Other important information

3) Consultation of all concerned parties at an early stage

 Data subject

-
-
-
-

-
-

-
-

-
-

General information according to Article 77(2) GDPR provided
General interest in an amicable resolution
No other reasons for specific treatment of the case
This information has been shared with the involved CSA and, where applicable,
the LSA

□

 Controller/processor

An official hearing has taken place
The controller/processor is willing to establish compliance to legal
requirements
There is a chance to gain compliance within an appropriate time frame
This information has been shared with the involved CSA and, where applicable,
the LSA (e.g. via informal consultation)

□
□

□

 Third party (where applicable)

No rights of a third party affected
There are no rights of third parties precluding an agreement (e.g. because
granting the complainant’s request for access impacts the data protection rights
of a third party)

□

□
□
□

□
□
□
□

□
□

□
□

4) Has an amicable settlement been reached?

 Satisfaction of the data subject demonstrated

-
-
-

The infringement for which you have been notified is remedied
No objections from the data subject
The data subject came back to you in an appropriate time frame

 The controller/processor provided proof of compliance

 Where applicable: The LSA/CSA was provided with this information

5) Does the final decision comply with Article 60 GDPR (in OSS cases)?

The decision contains all relevant information (cf. paragraphs 57 et seq.)

The (if applicable: revised) draft decision has been circulated via IMI
-

The draft decision has been sent





Adopted

□
□
□
□

□

□

□

□
□

20

-
-

There have been no reasoned and relevant objections
□
There have been reasoned and relevant objections, but all of them could be
overcome
□

 The final decision has been circulated via IMI

-
-

The controller/processor has been notified of the decision
The data subject has been informed of the decision

□
□

Adopted

21

ANNEX  2:  COUNTRIES  WHERE  AMICABLE  SETTLEMENTS  ARE  NOT

POSSIBLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NATIONAL LEGISLATION

65. The following countries have indicated that amicable settlements are not possible in accordance with

their national legislation:

Cyprus
-
Czech Republic
-
Denmark
-
Estonia
-
Finland
-
France
-
-
Greece
- Malta
Poland
-
-
Portugal
Slovakia
-
Slovenia
-
-
Spain
Sweden
-

Adopted

22

