1/27

Notice No. 19/2018 of February 28, 2018

Subject: Draft law containing various provisions "Interior" (CO-A-2018-002)

The Commission for the Protection of Privacy;

Considering the law of December 8, 1992, on the protection of privacy with respect to the processing of personal data (hereinafter LVP), particularly Article 29;

Considering the request for an opinion from the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Jan Jambon, received on 01/05/2018;

Considering the additional information received on January 23 and 24, 2018;

Considering the report from Ms. Mireille Salmon;

Issues, on February 28, 2018, the following opinion:

The Commission draws attention to the fact that a new European regulation concerning the protection of personal data has recently been enacted: the Regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and the Police and Justice Directive. These texts were published in the Official Journal of the European Union on May 4, 2016[1].

The Regulation, commonly referred to as GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), came into force twenty days after its publication, that is, on May 24, 2016, and will automatically apply two years later, that is, on May 25, 2018. The Police and Justice Directive must be transposed into national legislation by no later than May 6, 2018.

For the Regulation, this means that from May 24, 2016, and during the two-year implementation period, Member States have, on the one hand, a positive obligation to take all necessary implementing measures, and on the other hand, a negative obligation, known as the "duty of abstention." This latter obligation implies the prohibition of enacting national legislation that would seriously compromise the intended outcome of the Regulation. Similar principles also apply to the Directive.

It is therefore recommended to potentially anticipate these texts from now on. It is primarily the responsibility of the applicant(s) for the opinion to take this into account in their proposals or drafts. In this opinion, the Commission has already ensured, as far as possible and subject to any subsequent complementary viewpoints, compliance with the aforementioned negative obligation.

[1] Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses, and for the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA of the Council http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/FR/TXT/?uri=OJ%3AL%3A2016%3A119%3ATOC http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/NL/TXT/?uri=OJ:L:2016:119:TOC

Notice 19/2018 - 3/27

I. SUBJECT OF THE REQUEST FOR OPINION

1. A draft law containing various provisions concerning sectors under the "Interior" responsibilities (hereinafter the "draft") is submitted for the opinion of the Commission (CPVP), specifically its Articles 2 to 21 and 84 to 92, namely:

• the provisions that amend the law of August 8, 1983, organizing a National Register of Natural Persons (hereinafter "LRN") and the law of July 19, 1991, concerning population registers, identity cards, foreigner cards, and residence documents, and amending the law of August 8, 1983, organizing a National Register of Natural Persons;
• the provisions that amend the law of December 25, 2016, concerning the processing of passenger data.

2. Among these provisions, only those calling for comments regarding the principles of protection of personal data are addressed in this opinion.

II. ON THE MERITS

1. Law of August 8, 1983, organizing a National Register of Natural Persons (hereinafter "LRN")

3. According to the note to the Council of Ministers, the modifications proposed to the LRN consist of:
• strengthening the role of the National Register of Natural Persons in terms of administrative simplification;
• creating the possibility of communicating data modifications from the National Register to private sector companies and organizations;
• extending the possibility of being authorized to access the data of the National Register to associations and individuals;
• expanding the possibilities of using the National Register number;
• determining the access of federal police and local police services to the National Register, population registers, foreigner register, waiting register, and central identity card registers;
• strengthening penalties in case of violation of the LRN.
Notice 19/2018 - 4/27  
1.1.  
Preliminary Remark  

4. As a preliminary matter, the Commission draws the attention of the author of the draft law to the fact that, starting from May 25, the Sectoral Committee of the Integrated National Register within the CPVP will be abolished in accordance with Articles 109 and 114 of the law of December 3, 2017, establishing the Data Protection Authority, and will no longer have resources for its operation. This is also evident from the principle note on the reform of Sectoral Committees approved by the Council of Ministers on March 31, 2017. However, the present draft law does not adapt the LRN (nor the aforementioned law of 1991 on population registers) in this regard and assigns new authorization powers to the Sectoral Committee. The Commission recommends modifying the LRN accordingly as well as the aforementioned law of 1991, and in particular adapting or repealing Article 15 of the LRN, which will remain ineffective as of May 25.  

1.2.  
Extension of the Purposes of the National Register  

5. Article 2 of the draft law amends Article 1 of the LRN and extends one of the purposes for which the National Register is maintained by the DG "Institutions and Population" of the Ministry of the Interior. It is provided that the National Register will no longer serve solely to simplify the administrative formalities required of citizens by public authorities but also "the administrative formalities requested by private organizations."  

6. The formalities referred to are not specified or exemplified in the explanatory memorandum. Therefore, it is not clear what data processing is intended; this does not correspond to the determined and explicit nature required by the GDPR for a purpose of personal data processing.  

7. Furthermore, the modifications proposed later in the draft law are not reflected in this new purpose as formulated, given that they "aim to enable the automatic updating of private sector files concerning general information about citizens" (draft Article 5ter).  

1.3. Opening of the National Register for Purposes Not Related to the General Interest.  

8. Article 6 of the draft law makes two adaptations to Article 5 of the LRN determining the list of persons eligible to submit a request for authorization to access the RN and use the RN number.  

Notice 19/2018 - 5/27  
9. The first adaptation consists of adding a new category of persons eligible to submit a request for authorization to access the National Register or use the RN number, namely: "de facto associations and natural persons for the information necessary that they are authorized to know under a law, decree, or ordinance."  

10. The current Article 5, para. 1, 2° of the LRN limits access to the National Register to legal entities for the information necessary for the performance of public interest tasks entrusted to them by or under a law, decree, or ordinance. The Commission does not oppose such an adaptation provided that it is limited, just like for legal entities, to the fulfillment of public interest missions on the part of these de facto associations and categories of natural persons.  

11. Furthermore, the Commission notes that the explanatory memorandum relating to this proposed provision is stricter than its wording in that it specifies that "it will thus be up to the federal, regional, or community legislator to designate, if necessary, the associations or persons concerned." This designation by the legislator appears necessary in the eyes of the Commission to ensure that these accesses are regulated; as is currently the case for certain private actors such as banks in the matter of searching for holders of dormant accounts.  

12. Therefore, it is appropriate to adapt the wording of the new Article 5, para. 1, 2°/1 in draft by specifying that the categories of de facto associations and natural persons designated by or under the law, decree, or ordinance are intended for the information necessary for the exercise of the public interest missions entrusted to them by or under the law, decree, or ordinance.  

1.4. Exemption of Police Services from Any Prior Authorization to Access the RN, Waiting Register, Population and Foreign Registers, and Identity Card Register  

13. The second adaptation made to Article 5 of the LRN consists of exempting police services from prior authorization from the CSRN to access the information of the National Register (including the waiting register). The same applies to Articles 9, 15, and 19 of the draft law for the identity card registers, foreigner cards, as well as the population registers and the foreign register. The explanatory memorandum justifies this exemption in the same way as for the general exemption from authorization from the Sectoral Committee for the Federal Authority introduced last year in the privacy law.
Notice 19/2018 - 6/27  
14. The Commission refers to its opinion 07/2017 dated February 1, 2017, on this matter. In light of Articles 109 and 114 of the aforementioned law of December 3, 2017, the Commission has no objection to this exemption.  

15. Additionally, the Commission recommends that the Minister of the Interior draw inspiration from the authorization conditions adopted by the sectoral committee of the National Register for the development of its guidelines regarding access to and use of the data concerned by police services. Particular importance should be given to the quality of access logging to these various data sources. They must be made available to the competent data protection authority upon first request.  

1.5. Opening of the National Register to the private sector for the updating of their files or databases of natural persons in exchange for remuneration for the services of the National Register  

16. Article 7 of the draft law introduces a new Article 5 ter in the LRN providing, subject to prior authorization from the sectoral committee of the National Register and the prior consent of the concerned natural persons, access by any private and public body of Belgian law that has adopted the necessary measures to ensure data protection and designated a data protection officer, to the data of the National Register "name and surname, main residence address, and place and date of death" relating to individuals with whom these bodies maintain a contractual, reciprocal, explicit, and formal relationship, for the purpose of updating their files or databases of natural persons. The termination of the contractual relationship will result in the cessation of any communication of data from the National Register and the obligation for the provider to report this to the National Register. The concerned individual will also have means to withdraw their consent through the services of the National Register or those of their municipality. An explicit prohibition on selling the data thus obtained to third parties or using it for advertising purposes is also provided.  

17. The Commission considers that the intervention of the sectoral committee of the National Register would not add value in this case. Providing for an access authorization system for data processing and framing its conditions through legislation is redundant. The only discretionary power that would belong in this case to a committee in charge of authorization would be to verify the adoption of security measures by the concerned bodies; this cannot reasonably be done through systematic auditing given the number of bodies involved. In such a hypothesis, the Commission believes that it is up to the services of the National Register to adopt organizational/technical measures to ensure that any concerned body has previously guaranteed the provision of an adequate level of security.
Notice 19/2018 - 7/27  
for the protection of personal data concerned. Article 5 ter must be adapted in this sense.

18. The Commission also notes a problem regarding the drafting of the purpose for which the data may be used by the private sector. The updating of files/databases does not constitute a complete purpose of processing. What is important to highlight is the reason why the data will be updated using data from the National Register. Data is updated to carry out specific data processing regarding individuals for various specific and concrete purposes (such as, for example, the management of orders, ongoing deliveries, and billing for goods and services sold or provided, the management of potential financing files, the recall of defective or dangerous products, and, where applicable, the management of litigation related to the sale or provision of goods and services...). These purposes must be specified in the draft Article 5 ter; otherwise, not only will this provision fail to meet the GDPR requirement that any purpose of processing be determined and explicit (art. 5.1.b. of the GDPR), but also, the individuals concerned will not be able to foresee the processing that will be done with their data thus collected, and their consent in this regard cannot be considered as compliant with the requirements of the GDPR. Article 6.1.a) indeed requires that the consent of the data subject pertains to one or more specific purposes. For their consent to be informed, the data subject must know not only the identity of the data controller but also the purposes of the processing to which the data is intended (recital 42 GDPR). The requirement for lawful and fair processing also implies that the specific purposes of the processing be explicit, legitimate, and determined at the time of collection of personal data. Both paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of Article 5 ter must be corrected on this point. The current wording of Article 5 ter does not allow the Commission to assess the legitimacy and proportionality of the processing in question.

19. The Commission also questions the type of contractual relationship that could legitimize this access to the National Register. The draft Article 5 ter refers to "bilateral, explicit, and formal contractual relationships." The bilateral nature of a contract does not necessarily legitimize the collection of the client's identification data. For example, the sale of a loaf of bread does not require the baker to know the identification data of the customer. The clarifications included in the explanatory memorandum are not very enlightening (constant contractual relationships that endure over time). As the Commission has already noted in its Initiative Recommendation 03/2011 of May 25, 2011, a distinction can be made in this regard between contracts whose execution is instantaneous (sale of a product, payment of the price in exchange for the delivery of a good) and those whose execution requires successive performances (lease contract, service contract with multiple performances, rental contract for tangible property).
Notice 19/2018 - 8/27  
etc.…). A delimitation of the categories of contracts referred to and the circumstances mentioned, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, must be established by paragraph 2 of the draft article 5ter.  

20. Furthermore, as has always been required by the sectoral Committee of the National Register regarding the systematic communication by the National Register of data updates, it is appropriate for the legislator to impose that technical and/or organizational measures be adopted by the concerned actors for the establishment of a reference directory so that only the necessary data updates are systematically communicated.  

21. Regarding the requirement for prior consent from the data subject, the Commission notes that consent must meet the criteria of the GDPR and consist of a manifestation of will, free, specific, informed, and unambiguous, by which the data subject agrees, through a declaration or a clear affirmative act, that their data be updated through a consultation of the National Register.  

22. Moreover, the Commission notes that the requirements of article 7 of the GDPR must be respected. Under no circumstances may the execution of the contract be conditioned on the data subject consenting to this communication from the services of the National Register, and no negative or positive consequence (impact on price) for the data subject may be linked to obtaining this consent (art. 7.3 GDPR).  

23. Finally, for the sake of clarity, any legal reference to the data protection officer should explicitly refer to the data protection officer (DPO) as defined by the GDPR, given that it is in this instrument that the duties of the DPO are described. Paragraph 1 of the draft article 5ter must also be adapted accordingly.  

1.6. Introduction of exemptions from authorization for the use of the identification number of the National Register primarily for the private sector  

24. Article 9 of the draft law replaces article 8 of the LRN which regulates the use of the identification number of the National Register. The principle of prior authorization for the use of the number by the sectoral Committee of the National Register (see above the preliminary remark on the upcoming abolition of this Committee) is maintained, but several exemptions from prior authorization are provided.  

25. From a general perspective, the Commission reminds that unique identification numbers must be subject to special protection in accordance with Directive 95/46/EC. The GDPR does not alter this requirement by providing in its article 87 that member states adopting a national identification number must ensure that it is used only subject to appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of the data subject.  

26. Such safeguards imply:  
i. that the use of a general identification number is limited to cases where it is strictly necessary, given that its use involves risks in terms of file interconnection,  
ii. that the purposes are clearly and explicitly specified so that the types of processing envisaged can be foreseen,  
iii. that the retention period and any communications to third parties are also regulated,  
iv. that technical and organizational measures adequately frame its secure use, and  
v. that non-compliance with the provisions governing its use is sanctioned by effective, proportionate, and dissuasive penalties.  

27. It is up to the author of the draft law to review its proposed exemptions from authorization to analyze their relevance in light of these criteria, to provide the necessary justifications in the explanatory memorandum if applicable, and to ensure that such safeguards are established for each justified exemption.  

28. For the remainder, each proposed exemption calls for the following remarks:  

1.6.1 Exemption related to the existence of a legal authorization  

29. A paragraph is added to paragraph 1 of article 8 of the LRN to specify that no authorization for the use of the number is required when its use is expressly provided for by or under the law, decree, or ordinance. However, the explanatory memorandum related to this proposed provision specifies that "the use of the national register number is immediately authorized when this use is explicitly stated in a law, decree, or ordinance." It is necessary to harmonize the positions.  
1.6.2 Exemption for "reading the identity card within the framework of a computer application"  

1 Stating only "identification" as the purpose of using the identification number of the National Register does not meet these criteria. The reasons for which identification is carried out and the framework for using this number must be specified in such a way that the types of processing that will be carried out using this number can be foreseen.
Notice 19/2018 - 10/27  
30. A new paragraph provides that authorization to use the national register number (RN) is not required when the electronic identity card for a Belgian or foreign national is only "read within the framework of a computer application." This wording is too broad and vague. It is necessary to clarify what the legislator means by "within the framework of a computer application." Instead, it should be specified that mere knowledge of the national register identification number during the reading of the electronic identity card or during the receipt of the electronic signature certificate or electronic authentication does not constitute a use of the number subject to prior authorization. Except in the circumstances referred to in the following paragraph (see comments on Article 8§3), the national register identification number thus collected cannot be retained if the recipient is not authorized to use it (or exempt from authorization).

1.6.3 Exemption for "the use of the RN number for the identification and authentication of a natural person within the framework of a computer application and, retention in an encrypted file of the relationship between said number and the identification number specific to the service provider."

31. Draft Article 8 §3 provides that "authorization to use the RN number is not required if the number is exclusively used for the identification and authentication of a natural person within the framework of a computer application." The authentication of a person consists of verifying that they have the identity they claim to have. It is the authentication certificate (including the RN number) present on the electronic identity card that allows this through cryptographic techniques. It should be specified that the retention of electronic signature or authentication certificates of a person who has authenticated electronically or who has signed electronically using their identity card can be done without prior authorization for the time necessary to preserve proof of the authentication or electronic signature. On the other hand, any other use of the number requires prior authorization/qualification unless exempted.

32. Draft Article 8 §3 in fine also provides that "the provider of the computer application (...) may record, in an encrypted conversion file, a relationship between the national register number and an identification number specific to the service provider." It is also specified that the information contained in this conversion file can only be used to "identify a natural person."

33. The Commission understands this last provision as not allowing these "computer application providers" to create a customer number based on a coding of the RN number but only the mere retention in an encrypted file of the RN number in relation to the "identification number specific to the provider" (customer number) related to the same person; this will only allow the provider to retrieve the customer number of a person based on that person's RN number who remotely accesses the provider's applications requiring identification (to the extent that the customer identification number specific to them remains the number by which their clients are identified within their own information system). This purpose should be clarified in draft Article 8, §3 to avoid any misinterpretation.

1.6.4 Exemption from authorization for the persons referred to in draft Article 5ter for "the internal recording of the RN number to use it in their relations with the National Register."

34. Draft Article 8 §4 allows the persons referred to in draft Article 5ter to internally record the RN number to use it in their relations with the National Register. Given the significant number of persons who will be able to access the National Register, the Commission recommends reformulating draft Article 8 §4: the persons authorized to access the National Register based on Article 5ter of the LRN must consult the National Register using the RN number of the person concerned. They may collect it from the person concerned and record it internally solely for the purpose of consulting the National Register under the conditions referred to in Article 5ter of the LRN.

1.6.5 Exemption from prior authorization for the use of the RN number for identification and/or authentication purposes in favor of high or substantial level electronic identification service providers and their clients as well as in favor of public services tasked with providing user and access management services.

35. Draft Article 8 §5 provides for new exemptions from prior authorization for the use of the national register number for identification and/or authentication purposes. Regarding this processing purpose and its non-determined and explicit nature, the Commission refers to its comments above.

36. Furthermore, concerning the first paragraph of this draft provision which exempts from prior authorization high or substantial level electronic identification service providers as referred to in EU Regulation 910/2014 (Eidas), the Commission notes that the necessity of using the national register identification number by these service providers is not...
Notice 19/2018 - 12/27  
not supported in the explanatory memorandum. The Commission wonders whether the use of the electronic identity card is sufficient in the situations mentioned.  

37. Furthermore, if a public authority is authorized to use the RN identification number for the exercise of its own missions, the use of this number to manage access to the applications allocated for their realization is covered by its basic authorization. If the legislator intends to cover another scenario, it should be specified, as the current wording does not allow for an understanding of the types of data processing covered; this prevents the Commission from expressing an opinion on the matter.  

38. Paragraph 2 of article 8 § 5 in the draft also provides that any exchange of the RN number between, on the one hand, the provider of a high-level or substantial electronic identification service or any public service responsible for providing a user and access management service, and on the other hand, any provider of a software application or the authorities, bodies, and persons referred to in article 5 of the LRN is authorized for identification and authentication purposes.  

39. The purposes are not clearly specified. Furthermore, the explanatory memorandum does not contain any element attesting to the necessity of this communication of the number to any software application provider. Finally, the identification number of the National Register is a purely national number that may not be suitable for commercial relationships that, by nature, do not stop at the country's borders. The Commission is therefore unable to assess the proportionality of such a general authorization. In any case, in order to avoid the network effect and the generalization of the use of the same identification number within both public sector applications and those of the private sector, the Commission considers that technical and/or organizational measures must be imposed on electronic identification service providers so that specific identifiers for each company are used.  

1.7. Network Connections  

40. Article 8, § 8 of the draft LRN incorporates paragraph 4 of the current article 8 of the LRN regarding network connections.  

2 See above the remarks on the indeterminate and explicit nature of the identification purpose and on the fact that the RN number does not constitute a means of authentication.  
3 Regarding the relevance and possible necessary reformulation of the notion of "public service responsible for providing a user and access management service," the Commission refers to its comments above.  

Notice 19/2018 - 13/27  
41. Regarding the intervention of the National Register Sectoral Committee, the Commission refers to its preliminary remark. It would be more in line with the logic of the GDPR for the National Register services to publish this register of network connections.  

42. Furthermore, the Commission notes that this notion of "network connection" deserves a legal definition to allow field actors to clearly understand their obligations in this regard. According to the jurisprudence of the National Register Sectoral Committee, a network connection involves the automated communication of personal data to third parties through the coupling of information systems where the number of the National Register of the concerned individuals is used as a primary key.  

1.8. Criminal Sanctions  

43. Article 11 of the draft law adapts article 13 of the LRN, which imposes criminal penalties for certain provisions of the LRN.  

44. A new criminal sanction is introduced by article 13 paragraph 1 of the draft, which penalizes the communication of National Register data to unauthorized persons or their use for purposes "other than those determined in articles 5 or 5ter of this law." The Commission notes that the wording "for purposes other than those for which it is authorized" is preferable, given that the purposes of processing sometimes appear in other sources (legal provision or authorization).  

45. Moreover, only the use of RN data is covered by this draft article 13 and not the use of the RN number. To preserve the rights and freedoms of the concerned individuals, the use of the RN number for purposes other than those for which one is authorized should also be subject to effective and dissuasive criminal sanctions. Similarly, it is important that individuals exempt from authorization for the use of the number for specific purposes are also subject to such sanctions if they use the number for other purposes. According to the draft law, only police services are liable to sanctions in this regard.  

46. Furthermore, the Commission notes that the amount of criminal sanctions appears extremely low compared to that of the administrative sanctions provided for by the GDPR. A modulation must be provided to comply with the obligation imposed by article 84.2 of the GDPR to determine effective, proportionate, and dissuasive sanctions.  

47. Finally, the Commission considers that the LRN must contain a specific provision stating that any data controller who accesses the National Register must log their accesses in
Notice 19/2018 - 14/27  
preserving who had access to which data, when, and why, and this for up to 10 years after the consultation. Such a provision should also be subject to criminal penalties.  

48. In recent years, the Commission has indeed faced in several cases the impossibility of exercising control over the veracity or otherwise of the illegal use of data from the National Register, as the data controller opposed the lack of logging. It would be useful to provide that this logging be certified by a trusted service provider (electronic seal) in order to guard against any last-minute falsification of this logging.  

1.9. Final remark on the methods of developing the identification number of the National Register  

49. Finally, the Commission notes that, in order to comply with the requirements of Article 87 of the GDPR, Belgium must adapt its methods of developing the identification number of the National Register so that it no longer reveals either the gender of the holder or their date of birth. These methods must also be reviewed so that this identification number cannot be easily guessed.  

2. Law of July 19, 1991, on population registers, identity cards, foreigner cards, and residence documents, and amending the LRN (hereinafter referred to as the 1991 law)  

50. According to the note to the Council of Ministers, the modifications contemplated to the 1991 law consist of:  
• mentioning in the population registers a new category of persons, namely children born in Belgium for whom a birth certificate has been established but whose parents do not hold a registration title in either register;  
• determining the general framework within which the use of the electronic identity card and the reading of related data must fit;  
• recording fingerprints on the chip of electronic identity cards;  
• making technical and/or aesthetic modifications to certain provisions.  

2.1 Addition of a new category of persons in the population registers and the National Register  

51. Article 13 of the draft law mentions a new category of persons in the population registers, namely children born in Belgium for whom a birth certificate has been established but whose parents do not hold a registration title in either register. According to the new §1 bis proposed in Article 1 of the 1991 law, these children will be mentioned in the population registers of the municipality where the certificate was established if they have Belgian nationality and, failing that, in the waiting register. It is also specified that this mention does not confer any socio-economic rights and that a National Register identification number is assigned to the child. According to the explanatory memorandum, this provision aims to ensure that the National Register is as complete as possible and to allow these children to be recognized as such in society.  

52. The purpose appears imprecise and is too vague.  

53. Furthermore, the Commission questions the relevance of registering non-Belgian children who do not apply for asylum in Belgium in the waiting register, whereas this latter register includes, under Article 1, §1, al. 1, 2 of the 1991 law, persons who submit an asylum application.  

2.2 Registration and removal of asylum seekers at the address of the Office of Foreigners  

54. The proposed Article 14 does not call for any particular remarks. It aims to legally establish the fictitious registration of asylum seekers at the address of the Office of Foreigners as well as their automatic removal after 6 months if they have not registered with a municipality in the country. The explanatory memorandum specifies that this potential automatic removal has no impact on the ongoing asylum procedure.  

2.3 Access of National Register services to population registers  

55. The proposed Article 15 specifies that the services of the National Register have access to the population registers in the context of carrying out their missions. Since the population registers contain more data than those of the National Register, the wording of this proposed Article 2 of the 1991 law must specify that it concerns only the information necessary for the exercise of the missions of the National Register services.  

56. Indeed, the population registers made available to the National Register can only be used by it to communicate to the persons referred to in Article 5 of the LRN the data covered by an authorization granted based on and under the conditions of the LRN.
Notice 19/2018 - 16/27  
2.4 Access of police services to population registers  

57. Like other provisions of the draft concerning the National Register and the National Identification Number, the proposed Article 15 provides that police services are exempt from authorization to access data from population and foreign registers for the exercise of their missions. The Commission refers to its previous remarks regarding similar provisions in the draft.  

2.5 Empowerment of municipal authorities to request the level of energy/water consumption of a residence for the control of residency  

58. Article 16 of the draft law adds a paragraph to Article 3 of the 1991 law authorizing municipal authorities to inquire with water and energy suppliers as part of their control over the effective and real nature of a residency, and according to the explanatory memorandum, when the home visits by police officers have proven unsuccessful. According to the explanatory memorandum, the concerned companies will be required to provide consumption statements related to the mentioned authorizations.  

59. The Commission notes that, contrary to what is stated in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed provision does not create a legal obligation for the companies concerned to communicate data but only empowers municipalities to inquire about it. It is necessary to harmonize the texts.  

60. The Commission recommends limiting access to this information to only those persons authorized to determine the veracity of the residence in the context of residency control. Furthermore, in order to ensure the proportionality of the information communicated, it is recommended that the author of the draft law draw inspiration from the system in place under the law of May 13, 2016, amending the program law (I) of March 29, 2012, concerning the control of the abuse of fictitious addresses by beneficiaries of social benefits, with a view to introducing the systematic transmission of certain consumption data from distribution companies and network managers to the BCSS, enhancing data mining and data matching in the fight against social fraud.  

61. A certified logging of such accesses (who accessed what, when, and why) should be imposed by the draft law to the extent that the purpose of using this type of information could be diverted. An effective, proportionate, and dissuasive sanction should also be established for cases of diversion of purpose of this type of information.  

Notice 19/2018 - 17/27  
2.6 Collection of fingerprints from the entire population residing in Belgium and insertion into the electronic chip of the identity/foreign card  

62. Article 18 of the draft law makes several important modifications to Article 6 of the 1991 law.  

63. First, the proposed provision adds the digitized image of fingerprints from two fingers to the personal data recorded on the chips of identity and foreign cards, which can be read electronically. It is specified that this information will only be retained by the authorities for the time necessary for the production of the card, for a maximum of 3 months. After this period, the data must be deleted from the database, but the database and the data controller are not specified.  

64. The processing of biometric data for the unique identification of natural persons is considered sensitive data within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR. The prohibition on their processing can only be lifted based on Article 9.2.g, which requires a significant public interest reason, proportionality concerning the objective pursued, respect for the essence of the right to privacy, and the adoption of appropriate and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and interests of the individuals concerned.  

65. The taking of fingerprints from the entire population is not a trivial measure in terms of privacy protection. It is an intrusive measure that, by its nature, must be justified and substantiated to comply with the principle of proportionality. The equivalence with passports, the strengthening of the fight against identity fraud, and enabling police services to verify the accuracy of the link between the identity card and its holder are invoked.  

66. First, the situation is not comparable to passports since it is a European Regulation that has imposed on member states the collection of fingerprints when issuing passports, which is not the case for national identity cards.  

67. Furthermore, the identity card already includes a biometric element that allows verification that it indeed belongs to its holder: the photo, which must be changed each time the card is renewed.  

68. Additionally, according to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1501 (implementing the aforementioned Eidas Regulation), biometric data is not included among the minimal set of personal identification data that uniquely represent a natural or legal person.
Notice 19/2018 - 18/27

69. In the absence of substantiated and quantified justification regarding proven cases of fraud related to the insufficiency of the non-falsification means provided by our current identity card, which could attest to the potentially insufficient nature of the photo as a means of authenticating the cardholder, and in the absence of justification in accordance with the requirements of Article 9.2.g, the measure appears disproportionate in the eyes of the Commission and non-compliant with the GDPR.

70. The Commission recalls that Article 35.3.b of the GDPR stipulates that a data protection impact assessment must be carried out for this type of data processing.

71. It can already be estimated that technical measures neutralizing the reading of these sensitive data will be necessary so that only the authorities responsible for identity control in the formal sense can read them.

2.7 Regulation of the Use of the Identity Card

72. The second amendment to Article 6 of the 1991 law consists of replacing its §4 to regulate the use of the electronic identity card. The Commission welcomes this attempt to frame the use of the electronic identity card.

73. The first paragraph of the draft Article 6 §4 of the 1991 law provides that the data visible to the naked eye on the card and those readable electronically may be read and/or recorded in accordance with the provisions of the privacy law, with the exception of the identification number of the National Register and the digitized image of the fingerprints.

74. The photo on the identity card should be treated like the RN number and the fingerprints.

75. The Commission recommends that the legislator require the data controllers concerned to implement tools allowing the data subject to decide which data they communicate through their card.

76. The second paragraph of Article 6 §4 addressing the duty of information of the data controller wishing to implement personal data processing based on the reading of the identity card is lacking in relation to Article 13 of the GDPR in that it omits the following information: the identity and contact details of the data controller, the legal basis for the processing, the legitimate interests of the data controller (when the processing is based on Article 6, §1, f) of the GDPR), the potential recipients of the collected data, the potential transfer of data to third countries and its legal basis, the duration of data retention, the rights of the data subject under the GDPR, the right to lodge a complaint with the data protection authority, information on the optional or mandatory nature of providing the data and the consequences of not providing them if the processing is based on Article 6, §1, b) of the GDPR, and finally, where applicable, the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, including information on its underlying logic and its consequences for the data subject.

77. It would be useful for this provision to impose specific modalities for communicating information in accordance with Article 12 of the GDPR.

78. The end of the third paragraph of Article 6 §4 specifies that "the electronic identity card can only be read or used with the free, specific, and informed consent of the holder of the electronic identity card." However, the fifth paragraph of the draft Article 6 §4 specifies that "without prejudice to Article 1 of the Royal Decree of March 25, 2003 concerning identity cards, the holder of the electronic identity card may refuse that their data be read and/or recorded except in situations determined by the King by deliberation in the Council of Ministers." Since nothing is provided for private sector actors, this gap seems contradictory to the first paragraph of the same provision.

79. The fourth paragraph of the draft Article 6 §4 provides that "when a benefit or service is offered to a citizen through the identity card within the framework of a computer application, an alternative not requiring the use of the electronic identity card must be offered to the citizen." If the author of the draft law also aims at the private sector, it is appropriate to replace the term "citizen" with "data subject."

2.8 Belgian Identity Card and EU Eidas Regulation

80. A new §11 is added to Article 6 of the 1991 law by the draft law. It specifies that the identity card constitutes one of the means of electronic identification within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No. 910/2014 (Eidas Regulation). The Commission questions the relevance of such a provision given that the Eidas Regulation only requires the Belgian government to notify the European Commission of its electronic identification schemes under the conditions set out in Articles 7 to 9 of said Regulation.

4 They may be subject to a legal obligation to collect a person's identity using their identity card or to verify their age or by a contractual relationship they are about to enter into, which legitimizes their ability to verify the identity of their contracting party.
Notice 19/2018 - 20/27  
2.9 New procedure for reporting theft/loss of foreign cards  

81. Article 20 of the draft bill aims to amend Article 6ter of the aforementioned law of July 19, 1991, so that the theft, loss, and destruction of a foreign card can only be reported to the police services. The amendment also provides that the municipality of residence of the cardholder must be notified, with the responsibility of deactivating the electronic function of the card falling to them.  

82. The Commission believes that reporting the theft, loss, or destruction of a card to the police services should be mandatory for everyone; this would reflect the current widespread practice.  

2.10 Checkdoc  

83. Article 21 of the draft bill grants legal existence to the "Checkdoc" service made available to the public by the National Register services. This service allows for the verification of whether a Belgian identity or travel document is valid. The proposed provision states the purpose of this service, the individuals who have access to it (the general public). It is also provided that, in the event of a negative response, the services of the DG "institutions and population" will inform the document holder of the verification of their status and invite them to present themselves to their municipal administration.  

84. The Commission considers that the modalities for consulting this service (entering the number of the identity or travel document being verified, according to the information obtained from the delegated official) should be specified in this provision. Furthermore, since this service communicates personal information (valid or invalid identity or travel document), it is also appropriate that its users be identified and authenticated in advance.  

85. Finally, similar to what is in place for the National Register, it is necessary to establish an electronic access right for the individuals concerned so that they can be informed of the individuals who have verified the validity of their identity or travel document in the last 6 months.  

Notice 19/2018 - 21/27  
3. Law of December 25, 2016, on the processing of passenger data  

86. Articles 84 to 92 of the draft bill amend provisions of the law of December 25, 2016, on the processing of passenger data (hereinafter referred to as the "PNR law"). These amendments concern the scope, modalities, and actors involved in the processing of passenger data.  

Article 86  

87. According to the commentary, "This article aims to correct a material error. The words 'passenger data bank' should be replaced with the words 'passenger data'. The managing official is responsible for the processing of passenger data, not for the processing of the passenger data bank."  

88. The Commission acknowledges the amendment and recalls that the responsibility in this case pertains to a set of operations carried out or not using automated processes and applied to personal data or sets of personal data, such as collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, dissemination or any other form of provision, reconciliation or interconnection, limitation, erasure, or destruction.  

Article 87  

89. Article 87 aims to provide Article 17 with a clearer description of the content of the agreements between the managing official of the UIP and the competent services and is part of the new model employed for the UIP, namely the closed box model.  

90. The Commission notes that most of the security and access modalities that the agreement must implement remain the same. However, there is no requirement to guarantee that the processed data meets a minimal quality standard and is subject to the same validation requirements. Given that passenger data will be correlated with databases and lists of individuals developed by the competent services, it is essential that the data allowing this correlation meets quality and validation criteria.
Notice 19/2018 - 22/27

91. The protocol must determine the modalities for logging the processing of data as provided in Article 23 of the PNR law if the competent services have direct access to the data processed within the PNR database.

Articles 88 and 89

92. Article 88 extends the purposes for which the prior assessment of passengers can be carried out for the purposes of investigating and prosecuting offenses related to the forgery of administrative documents, trafficking in false documents, rape, and trafficking in stolen vehicles. These purposes currently concern only the investigation and prosecution of serious offenses, including terrorist offenses, activities related to the research, analysis, and processing of information regarding activities that may threaten the fundamental interests of the State, and the prosecution of customs offenses.

93. Article 89 provides that within the framework of these additional purposes, all passenger data is accessible (and not only the API data as in the case of the purpose of monitoring radicalism or related groups posing a serious threat to public order).

94. According to the commentary, "This addition allows for compliance with the PNR Directive, which also provides for a prior assessment for terrorist offenses and for the offenses listed in Annex 2 of this Directive. There is no reason why the prior assessment could not also apply to Article 8, §1, 2°, since the Directive also provides for a prior assessment for this type of offense."

95. The Commission questions the relevance of the extension to the purpose of investigating and prosecuting certain specified offenses. In any case, in order to concretely justify why it is necessary to extend the prior assessment processing of passengers to these purposes, the Commission wishes for a precise motivation to be provided by the author of the draft law.

96. The Commission notes that the commentary on the article mentions an amendment to paragraph 5 of Article 24, which does not appear in the text of the draft law.

7 Before their arrival, departure, or planned transit on national territory in order to determine which individuals should be subjected to further examination.  
8 Advanced Passenger Information: preliminary data on passengers collected during check-in and boarding, listed in Article 9, § 2 of the PNR law.

Notice 19/2018 - 23/27  
Articles 91 and 92

97. Article 91 provides for the possibility for competent services of Member States of the European Union to directly request data from the UIP, without going through the UIP of their Member State. Only the competent services listed in a memorandum of understanding referred to in Article 34 of the law of December 25, 2016, are authorized to do so in case of emergency and under the same conditions as those provided for the UIP of a Member State of the European Union. Article 92 adds the possibility for Belgian competent services to request, in case of emergency, data directly from the UIP of another Member State, without going through the UIP. In this case, the concerned competent service sends a copy of the request to the UIP.

98. This is a transposition of Article 9.3 of the PNR Directive within the framework of good and constructive international cooperation between the UIPs of European Member States. The Commission indeed notes that Article 9.3 of the PNR Directive allows the competent authorities of a Member State to directly request the UIP of another Member State to provide them with PNR data that is stored in its database in case of emergency and under the same conditions as for information exchanges between UIPs.

99. However, the directive stipulates that requests from the competent authorities are justified and that a copy of the request is always sent to the UIP of the requesting Member State.

100. The Commission notes that the requirement to send a copy of the request to the UIP of another Member State is not provided for in the case of a direct request for PNR data by the competent services of that Member State. Conversely, the requirement for justification is not mentioned in the case of a direct request for PNR data by the Belgian competent services to the UIP of another Member State.
Notice 19/2018 - 24/27  
FOR THESE REASONS,  

the Commission issues an unfavorable opinion on Article 18, 1° and 2° of the draft law due to the remarks included in recitals 62 to 71 of this opinion (insertion of fingerprints into identity and foreigner cards without proven necessity).  

the Commission issues a favorable opinion on the rest of the provisions of the draft law on the condition that the following remarks are taken into account:  

1. Regarding the proposed amendments to the LRN:  

1.1. Adaptation of the LRN and the 1991 law to the aforementioned law of December 3, 2017 (rec. 4);  

1.2. On the opening of the National Register for purposes unrelated to the public interest and the accessibility of the National Register for updating private sector files:  
1.2.1. Reformulation of the new purposes of the National Register in accordance with the requirements of the GDPR (rec. 6 and 7);  
1.2.2. Limitation of access requests to the RN to natural persons and de facto associations for the execution of public interest missions entrusted to them by or under the law (rec. 12);  
1.2.3. Correction of Article 5 ter of the proposed LRN as explained in recitals 20 to 23 (purposes to clarify, delimitation of the categories of contracts concerned and circumstances referred to, maintenance of a reference directory to be imposed, clarification that it concerns the DPO as defined by the GDPR);  

1.3. On the new exemptions from prior authorization for the use of the RN number:  
1.3.1. Formulation of the authorization exemptions in such a way that they meet the requirements of Article 87 of the GDPR (rec. 25 to 27);  
1.3.2. Mention of the conditions for authorization from the CSRN in the ministerial directives for the Police services (rec. 15 and 57);  
1.3.3. Improvement of the wording of the authorization exemption for the "reading of the identity card within the framework of a computer application" as suggested in rec. 30;  

Notice 19/2018 - 25/27  
1.3.4. Correction of Article 8 §3 of the proposed LRN dealing with the use of the RN number "for identification and authentication purposes" as suggested in rec. 31;  
1.3.5. Improvement of the authorization exemption for the use of the RN number for individuals consulting the National Register (Art. 8, § 4 proposed LRN) as suggested in rec. 34;  
1.3.6. Specification of the concrete purpose for which electronic identification service providers are exempt from authorization to use the number if its necessity is justified in the explanatory memorandum. (rec. 35 and 36);  
1.3.7. Deletion or specification of the rationale for the exemption granted to public authorities for managing users and access (rec. 37);  
1.3.8. Justification of the necessity of the authorization exemption for the use of the number granted to clients of all electronic identification providers, specification of the concrete purpose for which they will use this number, and imposition of the adoption of adequate technical and organizational measures or, failing that, deletion of this exemption (rec. 39);  

1.4. On network connections:  
1.4.1. Definition of network connections (rec. 2);  

1.5. On the criminal sanctions of the LRN:  
1.5.1. Reformulation of the criminal sanction introduced in Article 13 of the draft in accordance with rec. 44 so that non-compliant use with legal authorizations is also addressed and addition of the penalization of the use of the RN number in a manner not compliant with the authorization or legal empowerment or for a purpose other than that for which one is exempted from authorization. (rec. 44 and 45);  
1.5.2. Adaptation of the amount of sanctions in accordance with Article 84.2 of the GDPR (rec. 46);  
1.5.3. Penalization of the absence of compliant loggings (rec. 47);  
1.6. Reconfiguration of the structure of the national register number in accordance with the remarks included in recital 49;  

2. Regarding the proposed amendments to the 1991 law:  

2.1. On the addition of a new category of persons included in the population registers and in the National Register  
2.1.1. Specification of the concrete purpose for which a new category of persons is inserted into the population registers and the RN (rec. 52 and 53);
Notice 19/2018 - 26/27  
2.2. Regarding access of National Register services to population registers  
2.2.1. Clarification that RN services will only have access to the data from population registers necessary for the performance of their missions (cons. 55);  

2.3. Regarding access of municipal authorities to water/energy consumption  
2.3.1. Harmonization of the wording of Article 16 of the draft law with the explanatory memorandum (cons. 59)  
2.3.2. Limitation of access to only those individuals who have a functional interest in the context of domicile control and monitoring regarding the proportionality of the accessed information (cf. the BCSS system currently in place for combating social fraud) (cons. 60)  
2.3.3. Imposition of logging of these accesses (cons. 61)  

2.4. Regarding the regulation of the use of the identity card  
2.4.1. Adaptation of paragraph 1 of Article 6, §4 of the 1991 draft law so that the electronic reading of the photo on the identity card is neutralized in reading except for the authorities responsible for conducting identity checks (cons. 74);  
2.4.2. Imposition of the adoption of measures by data controllers allowing the individuals concerned to decide which data they communicate using their identity card in the context of civil applications and clarification of the duty to inform by the data controller in accordance with Article 13 of the GDPR (cons. 75 to 77);  
2.4.3. Correction of Article 6 §4 of the 1991 draft law to allow private sector actors to read a person's identity card when they are legitimately entitled to do so under a legal obligation or for the execution of a contract that requires it (cons. 78)  

2.5. Regarding the Checkdoc service  
2.5.1. Clarification of the consultation modalities of Checkdoc and prior identification/authentication of users (cons. 84);  
2.5.2. Creation of an electronic access right in favor of the individuals concerned for the Checkdoc application (cons. 86)  

Notice 19/2018 - 27/27  
3. Regarding the amendments to the law of 25/12/1996 on passenger data in draft:  

3.1. The necessity of mentioning quality criteria and validation of processed data for the evaluation of passengers and determination of logging modalities for accesses in the agreement between the UIP and the competent services (cons. 90 and 91);  

3.2. The justification for the necessity to extend the prior evaluation to the purpose of research and prosecution of offenses related to the forgery of administrative documents, trafficking of false documents, rape, and trafficking of stolen vehicles, and limitation to only those purposes for which this is necessary (cons. 95);  

3.3. The absence of a requirement in the draft for sending a copy to the UIP or justification for certain requests for direct transmission of PNR data (cons. 100).  

The Acting Administrator,  
The President,  

(signed) An Machtens  
(signed) Willem Debeuckelaere