 

 

 

Our ref.: 11.17.001.008.217 

3 January 2022 

 

 

Failure to Fully Comply to a Subject Access Request by Playkot Ltd 

Decision 

 

A  complaint  was  lodged  in  Germany  (Hessian  Commissioner  for  Data  Protection  and 
Freedom  of  Information)  against  the  company  Playkot  Ltd  (the  controller),  whose  main 
establishment  is  in  Cyprus  and  the  complaint  was  subsequently  transmitted  to  the 
Commissioner  on  07.07.2020,  in  line  with  Article  56  of  the  General  Data  Protection 
Regulation. 

2.  On  the  basis  of  the  above,  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection  (the 
Commissioner)  is  acting  as  the  lead  authority  in  this  matter.  In  the  course  of  the 
investigation, other EU countries were identified as being concerned by this case. 

 

Case Description 

 

3. The controller, Playkot Ltd, is a company that develops games and offers web services 
and  other  related  services.  XXX,  the  complainant,  who  uses  the  services  provided  by  the 
controller,  claimed  that  he  contacted  the  controller  several  times  requesting  access  to 
information  for  all  processing  done  on  his  personal  data  as  per  Article  15  of  the  General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (GDPR).  He  also  stated  in  his  complaint  that,  he  was  only 
provided with a link to the privacy policy of Playkot Ltd and no other information regarding 
his request. 

4.  My Office engaged with the controller via email on 9 December 2020 and following the 
exchange of several communications in relation to the subject matter of the complaint, the 
following  information  was  provided  by  the  controller’s  legal  representative  on  their  email 
dated 8 January 2021: 

i. 

The  complainant  sent  an  initial  Subject  Access  Request  (SAR)  via  email  on  26 
January  2020.  The  complainant  requested  to  be  informed  of  all  his  personal  data 
that are processed by the controller. Specifically, he requested full details about data 
stored about him and his account, the relevant processing and the type and scope of 
the  data  transfer  to  third  parties  including  any  processing  done  in  the  context  of 
Google Play Store.  He repeated his request through the controller’s in-game support 
system on 7 February 2020. 

ii.  On  8  February  2020,  a  representative  of  the  controller  responded  to  the  email  and 
requested for him to specify what information was needed by the complainant. The 
representative  did  not  receive  a  reply,  and  thus  the  relevant  support  ticket  was 
closed automatically on 12 February 2020. 

iii.  On 11 March 2020, the complainant sent a follow up email reminding the controller 

that his request was not satisfied, to which the controller did not reply. 

iv.  On  2  April  2020,  the  complainant  sent  a  second  Subject  Access  Request  and 
requested any information regarding his personal data. Specifically, he asked “…for 
information  in  accordance  with  Art.  15  GDPR.  Please  confirm  whether  you  are 
processing personal data concerning me (Art. 4 No. 1 and 2 of GDPR). 

In  this  case,  I  ask  you  in  accordance  with  Art.  15  Paragraph  1  of  GDPR  for 
information about all personal data that you have stored about me; the purposes of 
the processing; the categories of personal data that are processed; the recipients or 
categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been disclosed or are still 
being disclosed; if possible, the planned duration for which the personal data will be 
stored  or,  if  this  is  not  possible,  the  criteria  for  determining  this  duration;  if  the 
personal data were not collected from me, all available information about the origin 
of  the  data;  If  applicable,  the  existence  of  automated  decision-making  including 
profiling  in  accordance  with  Art.  22  Paragraph  1  and  4  of  GDPR  and  -  if  given  - 
meaningful information about the logic involved and the scope and intended effects 
of such processing for my person. 

If you transfer my personal data to a third country or to an international organization, 
please  be  informed  about  the  appropriate  guarantees  in  accordance  with  Art.  46  of 
GDPR in connection with the transfer.” 

v.  A representative replied to the above request on the same day by providing a link to 

the controller’s Privacy Policy. 

vi. 

The complainant also made other game related requests during the same period via 
the same in-game support system. 

vii.  On  28  December  2020  and  on  8  January  2021,  a  support  team  supervisor  of  the 
controller  contacted  the  complainant  via  the  support  system  and  provided  him  with 
additional information regarding the processing of his personal data.  

5.  On  5  February  2021,  the  controller’s  legal  representative,  sent  an  email  informing  my 
Office, that the complainant replied on 9 January 2021 acknowledging the reception of the 
information provided on 28 December 2020 and on 8 January 2021, but requested that they 
also sent him all his personal data stored by the controller. The complainant’s last request 
was  eventually  satisfied  on  21  January  2021  through  a  corresponding  reply  from  the 
supervisor. 

 

2 

6.  On  31  March  2021,  the  controller  updated  my  Office  via  telephone  and  email,  that  the 
complainant  informed  them  that  his  request  was  fully  satisfied  and  he  withdrew  his 
complaint towards the Hessian Commissioner on 15 March 2021. 

 

Preliminary Decision 

 

7.  On  12  October  2021,  the  Commissioner  issued  a  Preliminary  Decision,  taking  into 
consideration that: 

i. 
ii. 

The initial SAR on 26 January 2020 was not satisfied at all and 
The  information  provided  in  response  to  the  second  SAR  on  2  April  2020  was  not 
satisfactory and in line with the information as per Article 15 of the GDPR 

Moreover,  it  was  determined  that  the  controller  had  not  complied  with  the  complainant's 
request in a timely manner, ensuing a violation of Article 12(3) of the GDPR.  

 

8. The controller’s legal representative responded on 16 November 2021, to the Preliminary 
Decision and stated, inter alia, that: 

i. 

ii. 

The controller accepts that the initial SAR was not given the appropriate attention in 
order  to  satisfy  the  complainant’s  request.  It  is  also  understood  that  sending  the 
privacy policy as a response to the second SAR is not considered satisfactory as per 
Article 12(3) GDPR. 
The  controller  did  not  receive  a  reminder  to  the  second  SAR,  and  therefore  it  was 
incorrectly  concluded  that  the  request  was  satisfied  by  the  information  provided  on 
the privacy policy. Despite this, it is emphasized that the controller did not act in bad 
faith. 

iii.  As  soon  as  the  controller  was  made  aware  of  the  complaint  by  my  Office,  the 
complainant  was  contacted  again  so  as  to  resolve  the  issue  as  effectively  as 
possible. 
Following  the  above  communication,  the  complainant  withdrew  his  complaint  to  the 
Hessian Commissioner. 

iv. 

9.  In  addition  to  the  above,  the  controller’s  legal  representative  included  the  following 
mitigating factors to be taken into account, inter alia, by the Commissioner: 

The controller did not act in bad faith and all the omissions took place due to lack of 
experience on GDPR related matters. 
The  controller  did  not  benefit  or  take  any  advantage  of  the  complainant’s  rights  or 
data  as  a  result  of  the  possible  violation  mentioned  in  the  Commissioner’s 
Preliminary Decision. 
The systems and procedures in place related to GDPR related communications and 
satisfaction of data subject requests have been improved following the complaint. 
The  support  team  has  been  educated  on  handling  GDPR  requests  and  the 
Information Security Framework has been improved. 

3 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

 

v. 

The  specific  complaint  was  a  remote  incident  to  the  best  of  the  controller’s 
knowledge. 

 

Legal Framework 

 

10.  Article  12:  Transparent  information,  communication  and  modalities  for  the 
exercise of the rights of the data subject. 

 

Pursuant  to  article  12(3)  of  the  GDPR  The  controller  shall  provide  information  on  action 
taken on a request under Articles 15 to 22 to the data subject without undue delay and in 
any event within one month of receipt of the request. That period may be extended by two 
further  months  where  necessary,  taking  into  account  the  complexity  and  number  of  the 
requests.  The  controller  shall  inform  the  data  subject  of  any  such  extension  within  one 
month  of  receipt  of  the  request,  together  with  the  reasons  for  the  delay.  Where  the  data 
subject makes the request by electronic form  means, the information shall be provided by 
electronic means where possible, unless otherwise requested by the data subject. 

 

11. Article 15: Right of access by the data subject 

1.  The  data  subject  shall  have  the  right  to  obtain  from  the  controller  confirmation  as  to 
whether or not personal data concerning him or her are being processed, and, where that is 
the case, access to the personal data and the following information: 
 
(a) the purposes of the processing; 
 
(b) the categories of personal data concerned; 
 
(c) the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been or will be 
disclosed, in particular recipients in third countries or international organisations; 
 
(d) where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be stored, or, if not 
possible, the criteria used to determine that period; 
 
(e)  the  existence  of  the  right  to  request  from  the  controller  rectification  or  erasure  of 
personal data or restriction of processing of personal data concerning the data subject or to 
object to such processing; 
 
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; 
 
(g)  where  the  personal  data  are  not  collected  from  the  data  subject,  any  available 
information as to their source; 

 

4 

 
(h)  the  existence  of  automated  decision-making,  including  profiling,  referred  to  in  Article 
22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, 
as  well  as  the  significance  and  the  envisaged  consequences  of  such  processing  for  the 
data subject. 
 
2.      Where  personal  data  are  transferred  to  a  third  country  or  to  an  international 
organisation,  the  data  subject  shall  have  the  right  to  be  informed  of  the  appropriate 
safeguards pursuant to Article 46 relating to the transfer. 

3.   The controller shall provide a copy of the personal data undergoing processing. For any 
further  copies  requested  by  the  data  subject,  the  controller  may  charge  a  reasonable  fee 
based  on  administrative  costs.  Where  the  data  subject  makes  the  request  by  electronic 
means,  and  unless  otherwise  requested  by  the  data  subject,  the  information  shall  be 
provided in a commonly used electronic form. 

 

Views of the Commissioner 

12. After reviewing the information provided by the controller’s legal representative, in their 
response to my Preliminary Decision, specifically the fact that the controller appreciates that 
there  was  a  lack  of  correct  procedures  on  GDPR  related  matters  as  also  a  lack  of 
appropriate  attention 
the  controller 
comprehends  that  the  request  could  have  been  satisfied  from  the  first  instance  if  the 
support staff was properly trained in tackling GDPR requests in a timely manner.  

the  complainant’s  request, 

I  consider 

that 

to 

13.  Despite  this,  considering  that  the  GDPR  had  been  enforced  for  almost  2  years  at  the 
time  of  the  complainant’s  first  SAR,  the  controller  should  have  had  the  appropriate 
measures  in place for at  least satisfying  data subject rights set out in Articles 15 to 22 of 
the GDPR. Moreover, the complainant should have received a valid response without delay 
to  its first  SAR,  where  he  clearly  requested  to  be  informed  of  all  his  personal  data  which 
was processed by the controller at the time. 

14.  Furthermore,  as  regards  the  second  SAR,  the  privacy  policy  cannot  in  any  case 
constitute  information  pursuant  to  Article  15  GDPR  to  a  data  subject  since,  no  specific 
information  was  provided  regarding  the  processing  of  the  complainant’s  personal  data. 
Article  13  GDPR  requires  completely  different  information  than  Article  15  GDPR,  in 
particular than Article 15(3) GDPR. 

 

Decision 

15. Having regard to all the above information, and based on the powers  vested in me by 

 

5 

Articles  58  and  83  of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  and  article  24(b)  of  National  Law 
125(I)/2018,  I  conclude  that  there  is  an  infringement  by  Playkot  Ltd  of  Article  12(3)  of  the 
GDPR,  since  the  controller  has  not  complied  with  the  complainant's  request  in  a  timely 
manner. 

16. Moreover, following an infringement of Article 12(3) GDPR, as explained above, under 
the provisions  of Article  83  of  the  GDPR,  I take  into account the following  mitigating  (1-3) 
and aggravating (4-5) factors: 
 
1. That there is no previous violation by the controller of the GDPR 2016/679. 
2. The willing cooperation and the responses to our inquiries without delay. 
3. The withdrawal of the complaint. 
4. None of the two SARs were satisfied in a timely manner. 
5. The lack of appropriate procedures and measures for handling data subject rights. 
 
 
17. In view of the above and on the basis of the powers conferred on me by the provisions 
of subparagraph (b) of paragraph (2) of Article 58 of the GDPR, I have decided to issue a 
reprimand  to  Playkot  LTD  for  the  infringement  mentioned  in  paragraph  16  above.  In  the 
event of a recurrence of a similar infringement within 12 months from today, this Decision 
may be counted against the company. 
 
 
 
Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou 
Commissioner 
For Personal Data Protection 
 

 

 

 

6 

