1/11

 File No.: PS/00336/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 1, 2020, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter first
claimant), through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereinafter, the claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed
in the building located at ***ADDRESS.1, there being indications of a possible
breach of the provisions of the data protection regulations. The same day
a document filed by C.C.C. (hereinafter the second claimant),
through which he makes a claim against the same claimed in relation to the
same video surveillance system.

The reasons that substantiate the claims are the following (both written
are identical):

“Claim that security cameras have been installed in this community of neighbors
without our consent and without being informed of it, you were verbally informed and
by the burofax of said information and his response continued with adding more cameras
security, always without our consent, we do not agree that
let's be recorded in this community, since they are getting into my privacy
of said act

[…]

FIRST.- That the defendant installed two video surveillance cameras months ago in
the common areas of the building that give access to the garages, without:

"1. Have authorization from the rest of the owners of the building or from the community.

2. Install any informative poster indicating that the area is under video surveillance and without
offer those affected the mandatory basic information established in the Regulation
Protection of Personal Data and in the Spanish Law on Data Protection and
Guarantee of digital rights.

This appearing party addressed the defendant on 01/31/2020 by burofax to ask
to remove both cameras and to comply with the regulations regarding
Data Protection. The data controller reported has not responded to my
burofax.

In support of the above facts, the following DOCUMENTS are provided:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

[…]

2. Certificate of the burofax of 01/31/2020

3. Photographs of the cameras installed by the defendant in the common areas.

[…]

A photographic report of the two chambers from different perspectives is attached.

SECOND: Prior to admitting this claim for processing, the
Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection directed, on June 5, 2020, a
request for information to the respondent in which he was informed that the Agency of
Data Protection had been aware of the existence of security cameras
video surveillance located at the address indicated in the first event that could be
violating the data protection regulations and in which it was requested that, in the
period of 1 month, the conformity of the aforementioned installation with the aforementioned
normative

The respondent submitted a brief on August 3, 2020 in which he stated the
Next:

“[…]

The images captured by the video cameras are stored in a cloud for their
viewing by the owners of the cameras and Securitas Direct […] only in the case
that it be so requested by the owners.

[…]

The images captured by the video cameras are stored for
about a year.

[…] in the houses there is no registered community of owners. On the farm there are
several individual dwellings, but between them there is no community of
neighbours.

[…] I enclose the photos of the visible poster where it is indicated that security cameras are placed
video surveillance, photograph of where the camera is placed and its scope,
Also, attached image of the characteristics of the camcorder. Likewise,
I am also sending you a printed copy of the contract.

[…]”

Attach a photographic report that includes images from a camera located in
a roofed space that seems to be a portal, from the recording field of the camera,
of a poster of the company Securitas Direct and of the technical specifications of the
camera. Also, attach a copy of the contract signed between the respondent and Securitas
Direct for the provision of a service of installation, maintenance and operation of
alarm center.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

THIRD: On August 4, 2020, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
directs the respondent a request for additional information in which he is asked to
report about the cameras object of the photographic report provided by the
claimants, as well as to clarify whether the space captured by the camera to which
refers to the transfer response brief is the exclusive property of the respondent
or shared with other owners.

The respondent filed a brief on September 16, 2020 in which he makes the
following manifestations:

“[…]

[…] the two cameras that appear in the images are my property and the
Captured photographs can only be viewed by me and my wife.

The cameras were installed under the advice of the national police after a complaint
(which I attach below) that I filed because we suffered continuous harassment through
insults and rude acts such as […]

I would also like to attach several photos of complaints that I have filed with the
judged by the continuous harassment, previously mentioned, that we suffer.

The person responsible for the installation of these cameras is me, [...]

Below, I attach a photograph in which a poster is clearly visible
information on video surveillance.

[…] the photographs and images can only be viewed by my wife and myself.

The house has two cameras of the ZOSI brand […]

Then, I am sending you various images showing the scope of the
cameras and the place where they are installed, likewise, I send you other images in the
which shows what you see on the monitor. I would like to emphasize that, although the
space captured by the cameras is shared with other owners, I only
I installed the cameras to view my home (my door and my window).

The images are stored for approximately one year.

The photograph that I presented in my answer brief is a space shared by
the other owners (since there is no community of neighbors)'

Lastly, I would like to emphasize that the installation of the cameras is only for
feel more calm and protected and have proof since the harassment we suffer
it was constant.

[…]”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

He ends his writing by denouncing two alleged facts that in his opinion
would violate the data protection regulations by the claimants and one
of their lawyers.

 Attach a series of photographs of extracts from:

▪ Extract from the Verbal Complaint Act of January 30, 2020 presented in
Court No. X of ***LOCATION.1.

▪ Excerpt from the Judgment of the Investigating Court of ***LOCALITY.1
(Proven Facts) dictated on August 11, 2010 in the Misdemeanor Trial
Immediate 115/10.

▪ Extract from the Record of Verbal Complaint of July 3, 2013 presented in the
Court of Instruction No. X of ***LOCATION.1

 Photographs of what appear to be acts of vandalism on a metal door.

 Photographs of the cameras installed and the images that are displayed on the
display.

FOURTH: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 24
September 2020.

FIFTH: On May 25, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of articles 5.1.c), 5.1.e) and 13 of the RGPD typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: On May 25, 2021, the requested party was notified
of the Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure. In the absence of information
upon receipt of said notification, it was reiterated on the 11th of
August 2021, being returned to this Agency by the Post Office said
notification of the Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure with the annotation
“Returned to Origin for Surplus (Not picked up at the office)”. For this reason, it was sent to the Board
Single Edict (TEU), being published on September 14, 2021.

There is no record that, at the present time, the respondent has submitted a written
allegations to the same, for which what is stated in article 64 of the
Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), which in its section f) establishes
that in case of not making allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal when
contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility, therefore
that a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

FACTS

FIRST: On June 1, 2020, paths entered this Agency
A.A.A. claims and C.C.C. against the person claimed for having installed a system
video surveillance in the common areas of the building that give access to the garages, and
which also does not have any informative poster of a video-monitored area.

SECOND: Photographs of the location of the cameras are provided.

THIRD: The respondent has provided photographs of the images captured
stating himself that they capture common ground of all the owners.

It provides a photograph of a sign that only states "a video-surveillance area and a camera."

It also states that the images are kept for one year.

The defendant points out, and provides sentences, in which the bad relationship is proven
between him and the claimants.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The physical image of a person under article 4.1 of the RGPD is personal data
and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. Article 4.2 of the GDPR
defines the concept of “treatment” of personal data.

Article 22 of the LOPDGDD establishes the specificities of data processing
for video surveillance purposes, indicating the following:

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
processing of images through camera systems or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of persons and goods, as well as their
installations.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that

is essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture the public road in an extension
superior when necessary to guarantee the security of goods or
strategic installations or infrastructures linked to transport, without

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

In no case may it involve capturing images of the interior of a home
private.

3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its
collection, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of
acts that threaten the integrity of persons, property or facilities. In that
case, the images must be made available to the competent authority in
within a maximum period of seventy-two hours from the date of knowledge of the
existence of the recording.

The blocking obligation provided for in

article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

5. Under article 2.2.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered
excluded from its scope of application the treatment by a natural person of images
that they only capture the interior of their own home.

This exclusion does not cover processing carried out by a security entity
private that had been contracted for the surveillance of a home and had access
to the images.

6. The processing of personal data from the images and
sounds obtained through the use of cameras and video cameras by the Armed Forces
and Security Bodies and by the competent bodies for surveillance and control in
penitentiary centers and for the control, regulation, vigilance and discipline of the
traffic, will be governed by the legislation transposing Directive (EU) 2016/680,
when the treatment is for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or
prosecution of criminal offenses or execution of criminal sanctions, including
protection and prevention against threats to public safety. Outside
In these cases, said treatment will be governed by its specific legislation and
additionally by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.

7. What is regulated in this article is understood without prejudice to the provisions of

Law 5/2014, of April 4, on Private Security and its development provisions.

8. The treatment by the employer of data obtained through information systems
cameras or video cameras is subject to the provisions of article 89 of this law
organic.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

III

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a
video surveillance system, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with
the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space where the security system is installed.
video surveillance, since the processing of images in public places can only be
carried out, unless there is government authorization, by the Forces and Corps of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the persons who are
find.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in the

articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD, and 22 of the LOPDGDD, in the terms already indicated.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- The installed cameras cannot obtain images from private space of
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can
affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. No this
allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors
with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the spaces
surrounding public, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the
guarded space.

In summary and to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection offers through its website [https://www.aepd.es] access to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” / “regulations”), as well as the Guide
on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes, as well as the Guide
for compliance with the duty to inform (both available in the section “Guides
and tools”).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

IV

In the present case, the claim was filed because the respondent has installed a
video surveillance system in the common areas of the building that give access to the
garages, and which also does not have any informative poster of a video-monitored area.

As proof of these statements, the claimants provided the evidence
indicated in the “Facts” section of this agreement.

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to issue a warning -article 58.2.b)-, the
power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD -
article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
provides in its article 58.2 b) the possibility of directing a warning, in relation to
with what is stated in Considering 148: "In the event of a minor infraction, or if the fine
likely to be imposed would constitute a disproportionate burden on a
natural person, instead of sanctioning by means of a fine, a
warning. However, special attention must be paid to the nature,
gravity and duration of the infringement, its intentional nature, the measures taken
to mitigate the damages and losses suffered, to the degree of responsibility or to any
pertinent previous infraction, to the way in which the control authority has had
knowledge of the infraction, compliance with measures ordered against the
responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of conduct and any other
aggravating or mitigating circumstance.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

v

In accordance with the evidence available and which has not been
distorted in the sanctioning procedure, the defendant has installed a system
of video surveillance that could be capturing images of third parties, and being
preserved those images for longer than necessary, and furthermore, it lacks
informative poster of the existence of these cameras, for which it is considered that
These facts violate the provisions of articles 5.1.c), 5.1.e) and 13 of the RGPD, which
that supposes the commission of infractions typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which
provides the following:

"Infringements of the following provisions shall be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; […].”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infraction indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious and prescribes after three years, in accordance with
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

"According to the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)»

SAW

In the present case, it is considered that it corresponds to issue a warning,
in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 b) of the RGPD, in relation to the
indicated in Considering 148, cited above.

In addition, the following elements have been taken into account, in particular.

-

-

that it is an individual whose main activity is not linked to
the processing of personal data.

that there is no recidivism, because the commission is not recorded, in the term of
one year, of more than one infraction of the same nature.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

7th

However, as already indicated in the initial agreement and in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to which each authority of
control may "order the person responsible or in charge of processing that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
where appropriate, in a certain manner and within a specified period […].”
The respondent is required to take the following steps:

-

-

-

-

-

provide the images observed with the devices in question,
indicating on a location map the parts that correspond to its
private property.

certify having proceeded to withdraw the cameras from the places
current, or to the reorientation of the same towards their particular area.

certifies having proceeded to the placement of the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered in the same
(must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity
of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in
said precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces.

certifies that it keeps the information available to those affected
referred to in the aforementioned RGPD.

do not keep the data longer than necessary for the purposes of the
treatment of personal data.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS A WARNING to B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for one
infringement of articles 5.1.c), 5.1.e) and 13 of the RGPD, typified in articles
83.5.a) and 83.5.b) of the GDPR.

SECOND: ORDER B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, which, by virtue of article 58.2.d)
of the GDPR, within ten days, take the following measures:

-

provide the images observed with the devices in question,
indicating on a location map the parts that correspond to its
private property.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

-

-

-

-

certify having proceeded to withdraw the cameras from the places
current, or to the reorientation of the same towards their particular area.

certifies having proceeded to the placement of the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered in the same
(must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity
of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in
said precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces.

certifies that it keeps the information available to those affected
referred to in the aforementioned RGPD.

do not keep the data longer than necessary for the purposes of the
treatment of personal data.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B.
In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with article 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
The firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other records provided for in article 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-26102021

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

