THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 November 15, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 Grows and thrives:

 
https://bawu.social/@lfdi
Over 1500 interested people follow the LfDI account
on Mastodon
  
LfDI PeerTube instance is to follow

 

Digitization and data protection belong and work

together. More than 1,500 interested people are now following it

Country representative on Mastodon, a privacy-friendly

chen decentralized alternative to Twitter.

 

The state representative Dr. Stefan Brink: “We are very happy

about the many interested people who are interested in our account

inform and discuss with us. We show daily

mean that direct communication goes without saying

also privacy friendly. Our Mastodon instance

stands for exactly that. Citizens do not need their

give personal data for advertising purposes and her

have their communication behavior analyzed if they

want to use al-Media.”

 

- 2 -

The LfDI instance is open to public bodies from Baden-

Wuerttemberg. Cities and communities, chambers of crafts,

Universities and other public bodies can register here

operate their own account – which meanwhile numerous also do

do, for example the Universities of Freiburg and Tübingen

and Hohenheim, the Stuttgart Media University

Municipal Museums Freiburg, the city and the government

presidium Freiburg, the Ministry of the Environment and the state

center for political education. Others, such as the State

ministry, are with an account on other mastodon

represent instances.

 

The LfDI is currently planning to operate its own PeerTube

servers on which videos are uploaded, viewed and

can be mentioned.

 

Further information

 

The state representative has been running one for almost 11 months

own Mastodon server (instance bawu.social) and the Ac-

count @LfDI@bawu.social at https://bawu.social/@lfdi.

 

The microblogging platform Mastodon is an alternative to

Twitter. Short messages, called "tweets" on Twitter, are

ate on mastodon "Toots" (German: "Tröts"). The maximal

Message length is 500 characters. pictures and videos

can also be shown here. You can use other

address zer_innen directly with an @ sign and with

Hashtags (#) tag content. The platform is de-

set up centrally – basically like an e-mail service: everyone

can operate its own instance or join an existing

connect the instance. A communication is about that

Boundaries of instances possible.

 

It is also possible without registration on Mastodon messages

ten on the platform -either directly in the browser

- 3 -

or as an RSS feed. The link to the RSS feed of the LfDI Ac-

count is: https://bawu.social/@lfdi.rss

 

The instance cannot be opened for private persons.

You can create an account with one of the many others

create public mastodon instances. on the mastodon

Selected instances are available on the info page, many more can be found

himself z. B. in this Mastodon instance list. It is there too

possible e.g. B. to search for German-language instances

or otherwise filter.

 

Mastodon and PeerTube are part of the Fediverse, a

network of mutually independent social networks,

microblogging services and websites for online publication.

It is based on the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C),

the standardization body of the web, defined

communication log ActivityPub.

 

 

