THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

January 22, 2019

 

 

  Clean up after the political hack

The Internet forgets nothing? Yet.

 

 

The political hack, in which a student apparently stole personal information from 994 police

tics and celebrities as well as several tens of thousands of citizens and

ternet for retrieval is by no means over. The culprit appears to have been identified

and confessed - but the partly highly personal data was so in the network

spreads that it seems almost hopeless to collect them there again and

thereby preventing journalists, political opponents, secret services or

interested parties can also find and download them there – out of curiosity and

Schadenfreude, with intent to damage, for professional interest, for purposes

later blackmail or manipulation ...

 

"The internet doesn't forget anything!" is not without reason, because if like in this

spectacular case, the loot of information is cleverly distributed across platforms worldwide

affected are almost powerless when they consider the personal damage

limits and want to prevent their data from being found on the Internet "forever".

 

This is particularly related to the fact that the possibilities of anonymous users

international platforms are almost unlimited - and many such providers

just bragging about being "bullet proof" and oblivious to government regulation

Effectively remove bodies such as supervisory and security authorities as well as courts –

to the detriment of the victims of the hacks whose rights were violated.

 
 

 

Koenigstrasse 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

 

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

- 2 -

But we are not completely powerless in the face of the unregulated vastness of the Internet:

 

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI)

was able to achieve first "takedown successes" - also on non-European platforms

len. Around 1000 download addresses have been deleted in the meantime, with several

hundreds more, the LfDI is in contact with the other European supervisory authorities

hear. Because the platform operators also have to take their part of the responsibility

delete gene and illegal content after appropriate knowledge.

 

Data security is obviously necessary. Only those who are very careful to protect his

respects personal data by avoiding dubious providers on the Internet, his passport

Who chooses words well and differentiated in their own "information policy" private

and public wisely, who can reduce the risk of being a victim himself

Becoming a hack - but you can never completely rule it out, if only because you can

Third parties (relatives, acquaintances, colleagues, authorities, etc.) work with our data

work and whose negligence and mistakes in terms of data security affect us

fen.

 

How to behave if you yourself have been the victim of a hacker attack

The LfDI will soon explain about this in a handout entitled "Hacked - what to do?".

 

Anyone who, for professional or personal reasons, searches for data from this

sem or other leaks and retrieved this data from corresponding platforms

formen may have even downloaded, let it be said: the danger of getting lost

Handling the copied data to infect yourself with viruses or Trojans is

extremely high. Because on the dubious platforms, which hackers usually use for

distribution of their loot, malware is rife with the

View the hacker's booty to be downloaded at the same time. Here is the note:

Virus protection programs, whether free from the net or paid for expensive, are always

one step behind the attackers. You help against newly developed malware

Protection program only tomorrow.

   

That's why journalists and editors should get away from it as soon as possible

convince which uninvited visitors they have allowed into their network and

how to get rid of them. The LfDI is also happy to advise on this.

 
 

 

 

- 3 -

Doxing - no thanks!

 

stealing personal data from other people on the internet through criminal

Turning and disclosing (so-called doxing) is not only punishable, but also hurts

our privacy, on which we all depend in order to have a trusting,

to lead a healthy and self-determined life. In the political arena – how

in the political hack - such leaked information also poisons the social

discourse, make public actors look scornful or

pressable. With this, Doxing puts the ax to the roots of our liberal and open

Company.

 

Beyond the reactions of our security agencies, we as citizens must

and citizens are also learning how to deal sensibly with this new phenomenon

goes - and here the lesson can only be: results of the criminal violation of the

Don't acknowledge the privacy of others! This not only applies to the internet,

actually always: nobody would think of digging in the documents

that a neighbor was forced to leave on the street because his house was in

flames. It is a requirement of decency and fair dealings with one another,

not to take advantage of the distress of the person concerned to infiltrate deeply and against his will

invade his privacy.

 

This moral rule should not only apply to private individuals but also to journalists

apply: Anyone who takes note of private information that criminals have stolen makes

ren job and deepens the infringement. So stay away from doxing!

 

  

 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0.

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

 

