 

 
 
 
 
 

Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR 

(Article 3)  

 

Version 2.0 

 

12 November 2019 

 

 
 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adopted  

1 

Version history 
 

Version 2.0 

12 November 2019  Adoption of the Guidelines after public consultation 

Version 1.0 

16 November 2018  Adoption of the Guidelines for publication consultation 

 

 

 

Adopted  

2 

Contents 

Introduction ............................................................................................................................................. 4 
1 
Application of the establishment criterion - Art 3(1) ...................................................................... 5 
Application of the targeting criterion – Art 3(2) ........................................................................... 13 
2 
Processing in a place where Member State law applies by virtue of public international law .... 22 
3 
4 
Representative of controllers or processors not established in the Union .................................. 23 
 

 
 

 

 

Adopted  

3 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70 (1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC. 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES: 

INTRODUCTION   

The  territorial  scope  of  General  Data  Protection  Regulation1  (the  GDPR  or  the  Regulation)  is 
determined  by  Article  3  of  the  Regulation  and  represents  a  significant  evolution  of  the  EU  data 
protection law compared to the framework defined by Directive 95/46/EC2. In part, the GDPR confirms 
choices made by the EU legislator and the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) in the context 
of Directive 95/46/EC. However, important new elements have been introduced. Most importantly, 
the main objective of Article 4 of the Directive was to define which Member State’s national law is 
applicable, whereas Article 3 of the GDPR defines the territorial scope of a directly applicable text. 
Moreover, while Article 4 of the Directive made reference to the ‘use of equipment’ in the Union’s 
territory as a basis for bringing controllers who were “not established on Community territory” within 
the scope of EU data protection law, such a reference does not appear in Article 3 of the GDPR.  

Article 3 of the GDPR reflects the legislator’s intention to ensure comprehensive protection of the 
rights of data subjects in the EU and to establish, in terms of data protection requirement, a level 
playing field for companies active on the EU markets, in a context of worldwide data flows.  

Article 3 of the GDPR defines the territorial scope of the Regulation on the basis of two main criteria: 
the  “establishment”  criterion,  as  per  Article  3(1),  and  the  “targeting”  criterion  as  per  Article  3(2). 
Where one of these two criteria is met, the relevant provisions of the GDPR will apply to relevant 
processing of personal data by the controller or processor concerned. In addition, Article 3(3) confirms 
the application of the GDPR to the processing where Member State law applies by virtue of public 
international law. 

Through a common interpretation by data protection authorities in the EU, these guidelines seek to 
ensure  a  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR  when  assessing  whether  particular  processing  by  a 
controller or a processor falls within the scope of the new EU legal framework. In these guidelines, the 
EDPB sets out and clarifies the criteria for determining the application of the territorial scope of the 
GDPR. Such a common interpretation is also essential for controllers and processors, both within and 
outside  the  EU,  so that they may assess whether  they  need to  comply  with  the  GDPR  for  a  given 
processing activity. 

As controllers or processors not established in the EU but engaging in processing activities falling within 
Article 3(2) are required to designate a representative in the Union, these guidelines will also provide 
                                                           
1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). 
2 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of 
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. 

Adopted  

4 

clarification  on  the  process  for  the  designation  of  this  representative  under  Article  27  and  its 
responsibilities and obligations.  

As a general principle, the EDPB asserts that where the processing of personal data falls within the 
territorial  scope  of  the  GDPR,  all  provisions  of  the  Regulation  apply  to  such  processing.  These 
guidelines  will  specify  the  various  scenarios  that  may  arise,  depending  on  the  type  of  processing 
activities, the entity carrying out these processing activities or the location of such entities, and will 
detail  the  provisions  applicable  to  each  situation.  It  is  therefore  essential  that  controllers  and 
processors, especially those offering goods and services at international level, undertake a careful and 
in  concreto  assessment  of  their  processing  activities,  in  order  to  determine  whether  the  related 
processing of personal data falls under the scope of the GDPR. 

The  EDPB  underlines  that  the  application  of  Article  3  aims  at  determining  whether  a  particular 
processing  activity,  rather  than  a  person  (legal  or  natural),  falls  within  the  scope  of  the  GDPR. 
Consequently, certain processing of personal data by a controller or processor might fall within the 
scope of the Regulation, while other processing of personal data by that same controller or processor 
might not, depending on the processing activity. 

These guidelines, initially adopted by the EDPB on 16 November, have been submitted to a public 
consultation  from  23rd  November  2018  to  18th  January  2019  and  have  been  updated  taking  into 
account the contributions and feedback received. 

1  APPLICATION OF THE ESTABLISHMENT CRITERION - ART 3(1)   

Article 3(1) of the GDPR provides that the “Regulation applies to the processing of personal data in the 
context of the activities of an establishment of a controller or a processor in the Union, regardless of 
whether the processing takes place in the Union or not.” 

Article  3(1)  GDPR  makes  reference  not  only  to  an  establishment  of  a  controller,  but  also  to  an 
establishment of a processor. As a result, the processing of personal data by a processor may also be 
subject to EU law by virtue of the processor having an establishment located within the EU. 

Article 3(1) ensures that the GDPR applies to the processing by a controller or processor carried out in 
the context of the activities of an establishment of that controller or processor in the Union, regardless 
of  the  actual  place  of  the  processing.  The  EDPB  therefore  recommends  a  threefold  approach  in 
determining  whether  or  not  the  processing  of  personal  data  falls  within  the  scope  of  the  GDPR 
pursuant to Article 3(1).  

The following sections clarify the application of the establishment criterion, first by considering the 
definition of an ‘establishment’ in the EU within the meaning of EU data protection law, second by 
looking at what is meant by ‘processing in the context of the activities of an establishment in the 
Union’, and lastly by confirming that the GDPR will apply regardless of whether the processing carried 
out in the context of the activities of this establishment takes place in the Union or not. 
a)   “An establishment in the Union” 
Before considering what is meant by “an establishment in the Union” it is first necessary to identify 
who is the controller or processor for a given processing activity. According to the definition in Article 
4(7) of the GDPR, controller means “the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body 
which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal 
data”. A processor, according to Article 4(8) of the GDPR, is “a natural or legal person, public authority, 

Adopted  

5 

agency or other body which processes personal data on behalf of the controller”. As established by 
relevant  CJEU  case  law  and  previous  WP29  opinion3,  the  determination  of  whether  an  entity  is  a 
controller or processor for the purposes of EU data protection law is a key element in the assessment 
of the application of the GDPR to the personal data processing in question.  

While the notion of “main establishment” is defined in Article 4(16), the GDPR does not provide a 
definition  of  “establishment”  for  the  purpose  of  Article  34.  However,  Recital  225  clarifies  that  an 
“[e]stablishment implies the effective and real exercise of activities through stable arrangements. The 
legal form of such arrangements, whether through a branch or a subsidiary with a legal personality, is 
not the determining factor in that respect.”  

This wording is identical to that found in Recital 19 of Directive 95/46/EC, to which reference has been 
made in several CJEU rulings broadening the interpretation of the term “establishment”, departing 
from a formalistic approach whereby undertakings are established solely in the place where they are 
registered6. Indeed, the CJEU ruled that the notion of establishment extends to any real and effective 
activity  —  even  a  minimal  one  —  exercised  through  stable  arrangements7.  In  order  to  determine 
whether an entity based outside the Union has an establishment in a Member State, both the degree 
of stability of the arrangements and the effective exercise of activities in that Member State must be 
considered in the light of the specific nature of the economic activities and the provision of services 
concerned. This is particularly true for undertakings offering services exclusively over the Internet8.  

The threshold for “stable arrangement9” can actually be quite low when the centre of activities of a 
controller concerns the provision of services online. As a result, in some circumstances, the presence 
of one single employee or agent of a non-EU entity in the Union may be sufficient to constitute a stable 
arrangement (amounting to an ‘establishment’ for the purposes of Art 3(1))  if that employee or agent 
acts with a sufficient degree of stability. Conversely, when an employee is based in the EU but the 
processing is not being carried out in the context of the activities of the EU-based employee in the 
Union (i.e. the processing relates to activities of the controller outside the EU), the mere presence of 
an employee in the EU will not result in that processing falling within the scope of the GDPR. In other 
words, the mere presence of an employee in the EU is not as such sufficient to trigger the application 
of the GDPR, since for the processing in question to fall within the scope of the GDPR, it must also be 
carried out in the context of the activities of the EU-based employee. 

The  fact  that  the  non-EU  entity  responsible  for  the  data  processing  does  not  have  a  branch  or 
subsidiary in a Member State does not preclude it from having an establishment there within the 

                                                           
3 G 29 WP169 - Opinion 1/2010 on the concepts of "controller" and "processor", adopted on 16th February 2010 
and under revision by the EDPB. 
4 The definition of “main establishment” is mainly relevant for the purpose of determining the competence of 
the supervisory authorities concerned according to Article 56 GDPR. See the WP29 Guidelines for identifying a 
controller or processor’s lead supervisory authority (16/EN WP 244 rev.01) - endorsed by the EDPB. 
5 Recital 22 of the GDPR: “Any processing of personal data in the context of the activities of an establishment of 
a controller or a processor in the Union should be carried out in accordance with this Regulation, regardless of 
whether the processing itself takes place within the Union. Establishment implies the effective and real exercise 
of activity through stable arrangements. The legal form of such arrangements, whether through a branch or a 
subsidiary with a legal personality, is not the determining factor in that respect.” 
6 See in particular Google Spain SL, Google Inc. v AEPD, Mario Costeja González (C-131/12), Weltimmo v NAIH (C-
230/14),  Verein  für  Konsumenteninformation  v  Amazon  EU  (C-191/15)  and  Wirtschaftsakademie  Schleswig-
Holstein (C-210/16). 
7  Weltimmo, paragraph 31. 
8 Weltimmo, paragraph 29.  
9 Weltimmo, paragraph 31. 

Adopted  

6 

meaning of EU data protection law. Although the notion of establishment is broad, it is not without 
limits. It is not possible to conclude that the non-EU entity has an establishment in the Union merely 
because the undertaking’s website is accessible in the Union10.    

Example 1: A car manufacturing company with headquarters in the US has a fully-owned branch office 
located in Brussels overseeing all its operations in Europe, including marketing and advertisement.  

The Belgian branch can be considered to be a stable arrangement, which exercises real and effective 
activities in light of the nature of the economic activity carried out by the car manufacturing company. 
As such, the Belgian branch could therefore be considered as an establishment in the Union, within 
the meaning of the GDPR. 

Once it is concluded that a controller or processor is established in the EU, an in concreto analysis 
should then follow to determine whether the processing in question is carried out in the context of 
the activities of this establishment, in order to determine whether Article 3(1) applies. If a controller 
or processor established outside the Union exercises “a real and effective activity - even a minimal 
one” - through “stable arrangements”, regardless of its legal form (e.g. subsidiary, branch, office…), in 
the  territory  of  a  Member  State,  this  controller  or  processor  can  be  considered  to  have  an 
establishment in that Member State11. It is therefore important to consider whether the processing of 
personal data takes place “in the context of the activities of” such an establishment as highlighted in 
Recital 22. 
b)  Processing  of  personal  data  carried  out  “in  the  context  of  the  activities  of”  an 

establishment  

Article 3(1) confirms that it is not necessary that the processing in question is carried out “by” the 
relevant EU establishment itself; the controller or processor will be subject to obligations under the 
GDPR  whenever  the  processing  is  carried  out  ”in  the  context  of  the  activities”  of  its  relevant 
establishment  in  the  Union.  The  EDPB  recommends  that  determining  whether  processing  is  being 
carried out  in  the  context  of  an establishment  of  the  controller or  processor  in  the  Union  for  the 
purposes of Article 3(1) should be carried out on a case-by-case basis and based on an analysis in 
concreto. Each scenario must be assessed on its own merits, taking into account the specific facts of 
the case. 

The EDPB considers that, for the purpose of Article 3(1), the meaning of “processing in the context of 
the activities of an establishment of a controller or a processor” is to be understood in light of the 
relevant case law. On the one hand, with a view to fulfilling the objective of ensuring effective and 
complete protection, the meaning of “in the context of the activities of an establishment” cannot be 
interpreted restrictively12. On the other hand, the existence of an establishment within the meaning 
of the GDPR should not be interpreted too broadly to conclude that the existence of any presence in 
the EU with even the remotest links to the data processing activities of a non-EU entity will be sufficient 
to bring this processing within the scope of EU data protection law. Some commercial activity carried 
out by a non-EU entity within a Member State may indeed be so far removed from the processing of 

                                                           
10 CJEU, Verein für Konsumenteninformation v. Amazon EU Sarl, Case C‑191/15, 28 July 2016, paragraph 76 
(hereafter “Verein für Konsumenteninformation”). 
11 See in particular para 29 of the Weltimmo judgment, which emphasizes a flexible definition of the concept of 
'establishment'  and  clarifies  that  'the  degree  of  stability  of  the  arrangements  and  the  effective  exercise  of 
activities in that other Member State must be interpreted in the light of the specific nature of the economic 
activities and the provision of services concerned.' 
12 Weltimmo, paragraph 25 and Google Spain, paragraph 53.  

Adopted  

7 

personal  data  by this  entity  that  the  existence of  the  commercial  activity  in  the  EU  would  not  be 
sufficient to bring the data processing by the non-EU entity within the scope of EU data protection 
law13. 

Consideration of the following two factors may help to determine whether the processing is being 
carried out by a controller or processor in the context of its establishment in the Union 

i)  Relationship  between  a  data  controller  or  processor  outside  the  Union  and  its  local 
establishment in the Union  

The data processing activities of a data controller or processor established outside the EU may 
be inextricably linked to the activities of a local establishment in a Member State, and thereby 
may trigger the applicability of EU law, even if that local establishment is not actually taking 
any role in the data processing itself14. If a case by case analysis on the facts shows that there 
is  an  inextricable  link  between  the  processing  of  personal  data  carried  out  by  a  non-EU 
controller or processor and the activities of an EU establishment, EU law will apply to that 
processing by the non-EU entity, whether or not the EU establishment plays a role in that 
processing of data15.  

 

ii) Revenue raising in the Union 

Revenue-raising in the EU by a local establishment, to the extent that such activities can be 
considered as “inextricably linked” to the processing of personal data taking place outside the 
EU  and  individuals  in  the  EU,  may  be  indicative  of  processing  by  a  non-EU  controller  or 
processor being carried out “in the context of the activities of the EU establishment”, and may 
be sufficient to result in the application of EU law to such processing16. 

The  EDPB  recommends  that  non-EU  organisations  undertake  an  assessment  of  their  processing 
activities, first by determining whether personal data are being processed, and secondly by identifying 
potential links between the activity for which the data is being processed and the activities of any 
presence of the organisation in the Union. If such a link is identified, the nature of this link will be key 
in determining whether the GDPR applies to the processing in question, and must be assessed inter 
alia against the two elements listed above.  

Example  2:  An  e-commerce  website  is operated  by a  company  based  in  China.  The  personal  data 
processing activities of the company are exclusively carried out in China. The Chinese company has 
established a European office in Berlin in order to lead and implement commercial prospection and 
marketing campaigns towards EU markets. 

In this case, it can be considered that the activities of the European office in Berlin are inextricably 
linked to the processing of personal data carried out by the Chinese e-commerce website, insofar as 

                                                           
13 G29 WP 179 update - Update of Opinion 8/2010 on applicable law in light of the CJEU judgment in Google 
Spain, 16th December 2015 
14 CJEU, Google Spain, Case C‑131/12 
15 G29 WP 179 update - Update of Opinion 8/2010 on applicable law in light of the CJEU judgment in Google 
Spain, 16th December 2015 
16 This  may potentially be the  case,  for example, for any foreign operator  with a sales office or  some other 
presence in the EU, even if that office has no role in the actual data processing, in particular where the processing 
takes place in the context of the sales activity in the EU and the activities of the establishment are aimed at the 
inhabitants of the Member States in which the establishment is located (WP179 update). 

Adopted  

8 

the commercial prospection and marketing campaign towards EU markets notably serve to make the 
service offered by the e-commerce website profitable. The processing of personal data by the Chinese 
company in relation to EU sales is indeed inextricably linked to the activities of the European office in 
Berlin relating to commercial prospection and marketing campaign towards EU market. The processing 
of personal data by the Chinese company in connection with EU sales can therefore be considered as 
carried out in the context of the activities of the European office, as an establishment in the Union. 
This processing activity by the Chinese company will therefore be subject to the provisions of the GDPR 
as per its Article 3(1)”. 

 

Example 3: A hotel and resort chain in South Africa offers package deals through its website, available 
in English, German, French and Spanish. The company does not have any office, representation or 
stable arrangement in the EU. 

In this case, in the absence of any representation or stable arrangement of the hotel and resort chain 
within the territory of the Union, it appears that no entity linked to this data controller in South Africa 
can qualify as an establishment in the EU within the meaning of the GDPR. Therefore the processing 
at stake cannot be subject to the provisions of the GDPR, as per Article 3(1). 

However, it must be analysed in concreto whether the processing carried out by this data controller 
established outside the EU can be subject to the GDPR, as per Article 3(2). 

c)  Application of the GDPR to the establishment of a controller or a processor in the 

Union, regardless of whether the processing takes place in the Union or not 

As per Article 3(1), the processing of personal data in the context of the activities of an establishment 
of  a  controller  or  a  processor  in  the  Union  triggers  the  application  of  the  GDPR  and  the  related 
obligations for the data controller or processor concerned.  

The text of the GDPR specifies that the Regulation applies to processing in the context of the activities 
of an establishment in the EU “regardless of whether the processing takes place in the Union or not”. 
It is the presence, through an establishment, of a data controller or processor in the EU and the fact 
that  a  processing  takes  place  in  the  context  of  the activities  of  this  establishment  that  trigger  the 
application of the GDPR to its processing activities. The place of processing is therefore not relevant in 
determining  whether  or  not  the  processing,  carried  out  in  the  context  of  the  activities  of  an  EU 
establishment, falls within the scope of the GDPR.  

Example  4:  A  French  company  has  developed  a  car-sharing  application  exclusively  addressed  to 
customers in Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. The service is only available in those three countries but 
all personal data processing activities are carried out by the data controller in France. 

While the collection of personal data takes place in non-EU countries, the subsequent processing of 
personal data in this case is carried out in the context of the activities of an establishment of a data 
controller in the Union. Therefore, even though processing relates to personal data of data subjects 
who are not in the Union, the provisions of the GDPR will apply to the processing carried out by the 
French company, as per Article 3(1). 

Example 5: A pharmaceutical company with headquarters in Stockholm has located all its personal 
data processing activities with regards to its clinical trial data in its branch based in Singapore.  

Adopted  

9 

In this case, while the processing activities are taking place in Singapore, that processing is carried out 
in the context of the activities of the pharmaceutical company in Stockholm i.e. of a data controller 
established in the Union. The provisions of the GDPR therefore apply to such processing, as per Article 
3(1).    

In determining the territorial scope of the GDPR, geographical location will be important under Article 
3(1) with regard to the place of establishment of: 
- 
- 

the controller or processor itself (is it established inside or outside the Union?); 
any business presence of a non-EU controller or processor (does it have an establishment in the 
Union?) 

However, geographical location is not important for the purposes of Article 3(1) with regard to the 
place in which processing is carried out, or with regard to the location of the data subjects in question. 

The text of Article 3(1) does not restrict the application of the GDPR to the processing of personal data 
of individuals who are in the Union. The EDPB therefore considers that any personal data processing 
in the context of the activities of an establishment of a controller or processor in the Union would fall 
under the scope of the GDPR, regardless of the location or the nationality of the data subject whose 
personal data are being processed. This approach is supported by Recital 14 of the GDPR which states 
that  “[t]he  protection  afforded  by  this  Regulation  should  apply  to  natural  persons,  whatever  their 
nationality or place of residence, in relation to the processing of their personal data.” 
d)  Application of the establishment criterion to controller and processor 
As far as processing activities falling under the scope of Article 3(1) are concerned, the EDPB considers 
that such provisions apply to controllers and processors whose processing activities are carried out in 
the context of the activities of their respective establishment in the EU. While acknowledging that the 
requirements for establishing the relationship between a controller and a processor17 does not vary 
depending on the geographical location of the establishment of a controller or processor, the EDPB 
takes the view that when it comes to the identification of the different obligations triggered by the 
applicability  of  the  GDPR  as  per  Article  3(1),  the  processing  by  each  entity  must  be  considered 
separately. 

The GDPR envisages different and dedicated provisions or obligations applying to data controllers and 
processors, and as such, should a data controller or processor be subject to the GDPR as per Article 
3(1), the related obligations would apply to them respectively and separately. In this context, the EDPB 
notably deems that a processor in the EU should not be considered to be an establishment of a data 
controller within the meaning of Article 3(1) merely by virtue of its status as processor on behalf of a 
controller.  

The existence of a relationship between a controller and a processor does not necessarily trigger the 
application of the GDPR to both, should one of these two entities not be established in the Union. 

An organisation processing personal data on behalf of, and on instructions from, another organisation 
(the  client  company)  will  be  acting  as  processor  for  the  client  company  (the  controller).  Where  a 
processor is established in the Union, it will be required to comply with the obligations imposed on 

                                                           
17 In accordance with Article 28, the EDPB recalls that processing activities by a processor on behalf of a controller 
shall be governed by a contract or other legal act under Union or Member State law, that is binding on the 
processor  with  regard  to  the  controller,  and  that  controllers  shall  only  use  processors  providing  sufficient 
guarantees to implement appropriate measures in such manner that processing will meet the requirement of 
the GDPR and ensure the protection of data subjects’ rights. 

Adopted  

10 

processors by the GDPR (the ‘GDPR processor obligations’). If the controller instructing the processor 
is also located in the Union, that controller will be required to comply with the obligations imposed on 
controllers by the GDPR (the ‘GDPR controller obligations’). Processing activity which, when carried 
out by a controller, falls within the scope of the GDPR by virtue of Art 3(1) will not fall outside the scope 
of the Regulation simply because the controller instructs a processor not established in the Union to 
carry out that processing on its behalf.  

i) Processing by a controller established in the EU instructing a processor not established in the 
Union 

Where a controller subject to GDPR chooses to use a processor located outside the Union for a given 
processing activity, it will still be necessary for the controller to ensure by contract or other legal act 
that the processor processes the data in accordance with the GDPR. Article 28(3) provides that the 
processing  by  a  processor  shall  be  governed  by  a  contract  or  other  legal  act.  The  controller  will 
therefore  need  to  ensure  that  it  puts  in  place  a  contract  with  the  processor  addressing  all  the 
requirements set out in Article 28(3). In addition, it is likely that, in order to ensure that it has complied 
with its obligations under Article 28(1) – to use only a processor providing sufficient guarantees to 
implement measures in such a manner that processing will meet the requirements of the Regulation 
and protect the rights of data subjects – the controller may need to consider imposing, by contract, 
the obligations placed by the GDPR on processors subject to it. That is to say, the controller would have 
to ensure that the processor not subject to the GDPR complies with the obligations, governed by a 
contract or other legal act under Union or Member State law, referred to Article 28(3). 

The processor located outside the Union will therefore become indirectly subject to some obligations 
imposed by controllers subject to the GDPR by virtue of contractual arrangements under Article 28. 
Moreover, provisions of Chapter V of the GDPR may apply. 

Example 6: A Finnish research institute conducts research regarding the Sami people. The institute 
launches  a  project  that  only  concerns  Sami  people  in  Russia.  For  this  project  the  institute  uses  a 
processor based in Canada. 

The The  Finnish  controller  has  a  duty  to only  use  processors  that  provide sufficient  guarantees  to 
implement appropriate measures in such manner that processing will meet the requirement of the 
GDPR and ensure the protection of data subjects’ rights. The Finnish controller needs to enter into a 
data processing agreement with the Canadian processor, and the processor’s duties will be stipulated 
in that legal act. 

ii) Processing in the context of the activities of an establishment of a processor in the Union 

Whilst case law provides us with a clear understanding of the effect of processing being carried out in 
the context of the activities of an EU establishment of the controller, the effect of processing being 
carried out in the context of the activities of an EU establishment of a processor is less clear.  

The EDPB emphasises that it is important to consider the establishment of the controller and processor 
separately when determining whether each party is of itself ‘established in the Union’.  

The first question is whether the controller itself has an establishment in the Union, and is processing 
in the context of the activities of that establishment. Assuming the controller is not considered to be 
processing in the context of its own establishment in the Union, that controller will not be subject to 
GDPR controller obligations by virtue of Article 3(1) (although it may still be caught by Article 3(2)). 
Unless other factors are at play, the processor’s EU establishment will not be considered to be an 
establishment in respect of the controller.  

Adopted  

11 

The  separate  question  then  arises  of  whether  the  processor  is  processing  in  the  context  of  its 
establishment in the Union. If so, the processor will be subject to GDPR processor obligations under 
Article  3(1).  However,  this  does  not  cause  the  non-EU  controller  to  become  subject  to  the  GDPR 
controller  obligations.  That  is  to  say,  a  “non-EU”  controller  (as  described  above)  will  not  become 
subject to the GDPR simply because it chooses to use a processor in the Union.     

By  instructing  a  processor  in  the  Union,  the  controller  not  subject  to  GDPR  is  not  carrying  out 
processing “in the context of the activities of the processor in the Union”. The processing is carried out 
in the context of the controller’s own activities; the processor is merely providing a processing service18 
which is not “inextricably linked” to the activities of the controller. As stated above, in the case of a 
data processor established in the Union and carrying out processing on behalf of a data controller 
established outside the Union and not subject to the GDPR as per Article 3(2), the EDPB considers that 
the processing activities of the data controller would not be deemed as falling under the territorial 
scope of the GDPR merely because it is processed on its behalf by a processor established in the Union. 
However, even though the data controller is not established in the Union and is not subject to the 
provisions of the GDPR as per Article 3(2), the data processor, as it is established in the Union, will be 
subject to the relevant provisions of the GDPR as per Article 3(1).    

Example 7: A Mexican retail company enters into a contract with a processor established in Spain for 
the  processing of  personal  data  relating to the Mexican  company’s  clients.  The  Mexican  company 
offers and directs its services exclusively to the Mexican market and its processing concerns exclusively 
data subjects located outside the Union. 

In this case, the Mexican retail company does not target persons on the territory of the Union through 
the offering of goods or services, nor it does monitor the behaviour of person on the territory of the 
Union. The processing by the data controller, established outside the Union, is therefore not subject 
to the GDPR as per Article 3(2).  

The  provisions  of  the  GDPR  do  not  apply  to  the  data  controller  by  virtue  of  Art  3(1)  as  it  is  not 
processing personal data in the context of the activities of an establishment in the Union. The data 
processor is established in Spain and therefore its processing will fall within the scope of the GDPR by 
virtue of Art 3(1). The processor will be required to comply with the processor obligations imposed by 
the regulation for any processing carried out in the context of its activities.  

When it comes to a data processor established in the Union carrying out processing on behalf of a data 
controller with no establishment in the Union for the purposes of the processing activity and which 
does not fall under the territorial scope of the GDPR as per Article 3(2), the processor will be subject 
to the following relevant GDPR provisions directly applicable to data processors: 

- 

- 

The obligations imposed on processors under Article 28 (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6), on the duty to 
enter into a data processing agreement, with the exception of those relating to the assistance to 
the data controller in complying with its (the controller’s) own obligations under the GDPR.  
The processor and any person acting under the authority of the controller or of the processor, who 
has access to personal data, shall not process those data except on instructions from the controller, 
unless required to do so by Union or Member State law, as per Article 29 and Article 32(4). 

-  Where applicable, the processor shall maintain a record of all categories of processing carried out 

on behalf of a controller, as per Article 30(2).  

                                                           
18 The offering of a processing service in this context cannot be considered either as an offer of a service to data 
subjects in the Union. 

Adopted  

12 

-  Where applicable, the processor shall, upon request, cooperate with the supervisory authority in 

- 

- 

the performance of its tasks, as per Article 31. 
The processor shall implement technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security 
appropriate to the risk, as per Article 32. 
The processor shall notify the controller without undue delay after becoming aware of a personal 
data breach, as per Article 33. 

-  Where applicable, the processor shall designate a data protection officer as per Articles 37 and 38.  
- 
The provisions on transfers of personal data to third countries or international organisations, as 
per Chapter V. 

In  addition,  since  such  processing  would  be  carried  out  in  the  context  of  the  activities  of  an 
establishment of a processor in the Union, the EDPB recalls that the processor will have to ensure its 
processing remains lawful with regards to other obligations under EU or national law. Article 28(3) also 
specifies that “the processor shall immediately inform the controller if, in its opinion, an instruction 
infringes this Regulation or other Union or Member State data protection provisions.” 

In line with the positions taken previously by the Article 29 Working Party, the EDPB takes the view 
that the Union territory cannot be used as a “data haven”, for instance when a processing activity 
entails inadmissible ethical issues19, and that certain legal obligations beyond the application of EU 
data protection law, in particular European and national rules with regard to public order, will in any 
case have to be respected by any data processor established in the Union, regardless of the location 
of the data controller. This consideration also takes into account the fact that by implementing EU law, 
provisions  resulting  from  the  GDPR  and  related  national  laws,  are  subject  to  the  Charter  of 
Fundamental  Rights  of  the  Union20.  However,  this  does  not  impose  additional  obligations  on 
controllers outside the Union in respect of processing not falling under the territorial scope of the 
GDPR. 

2  APPLICATION OF THE TARGETING CRITERION – ART 3(2) 

The absence of an establishment in the Union does not necessarily mean that processing activities by 
a data controller or processor established in a third country will be excluded from the scope of the 
GDPR,  since  Article  3(2)  sets  out  the  circumstances  in  which  the  GDPR  applies  to  a  controller  or 
processor not established in the Union, depending on their processing activities. 

In this context, the EDPB confirms that in the absence of an establishment in the Union, a controller or 
processor cannot benefit from the one-stop shop mechanism provided for in Article 56 of the GDPR. 
Indeed, the GDPR’s cooperation and consistency mechanism only applies to controllers and processors 
with an establishment, or establishments, within the European Union21. 

While the present guidelines aim to clarify the territorial scope of the GDPR, the EDPB also wish to 
stress that controllers and processors will also need to take into account other applicable texts, such 
as for instance EU or Member States’ sectorial legislation and national laws. Several provisions of the 
GDPR indeed allow Member States to introduce additional conditions and to define a specific data 
protection framework at national level in certain areas or in relation to specific processing situations. 
                                                           
19 G29 WP169 - Opinion 1/2010 on the concepts of "controller" and "processor", adopted on 16th February 2010 
and under revision by the EDPB. 
20 Charter of Fundamental Right of the European Union, 2012/C 326/02. 
21 G29 WP244 rev.1, 13th December 2016, Guidelines for identifying a controller or processor’s lead supervisory 
authority - endorsed by the EDPB. 

Adopted  

13 

Controllers and processors must therefore ensure that they are aware of, and comply with, these 
additional conditions and frameworks which may vary from one Member State to the other. Such 
variations in the data protection provisions applicable in each Member State are particularly notable 
in relation to the provisions of Article 8 ( providing that the age at which children may give valid consent 
in relation to the processing of their data by information society services may vary between 13 and 
16), of Article 9 (in relation to the processing of special categories of data), Article 23 (restrictions) or 
concerning  the  provisions  contained  in  Chapter  IX  of  the  GDPR  (freedom  of  expression  and 
information; public access to official documents; national identification number; employment context; 
processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or 
statistical purposes; secrecy; churches and religious associations). 

Article 3(2) of the GDPR provides that “this Regulation applies to the processing of personal data of 
data subjects who are in the Union by a controller or processor not established in the Union, where the 
processing  activities  are related  to:  (a)  the  offering  of  goods  or  services,  irrespective  of  whether  a 
payment of the data subject is required, to such data subjects in the Union; or (b) the monitoring of 
their behaviour as far as their behaviour takes place within the Union.” 

The application of the “targeting criterion” towards data subjects who are in the Union, as per Article 
3(2), can be triggered by processing activities carried out by a controller or processor not established 
in  the  Union  which  relate  to  two  distinct  and  alternative  types  of  activities  provided  that  these 
processing activities relate to data subjects that are in the Union.. In addition to being applicable only 
to processing by a controller or processor not established in the Union, the targeting criterion largely 
focuses on what the “processing activities” are “related to”, which is to be considered on a case-by-
case basis.  

The EDPB stresses that a controller or processor may be subject to the GDPR in relation to some of its 
processing  activities  but  not  subject  to  the  GDPR  in  relation  to  other  processing  activities.  The 
determining  element  to  the  territorial  application  of  the  GDPR  as  per  Article  3(2)  lies  in  the 
consideration of the processing activities in question. 

In  assessing  the  conditions  for  the  application  of  the  targeting  criterion,  the  EDPB  therefore 
recommends a twofold approach, in order to determine first that the processing relates to personal 
data of data subjects who are in the Union, and second whether processing relates to the offering of 
goods or services or to the monitoring of data subjects’ behaviour in the Union. 
a)  Data subjects in the Union 
The  wording  of  Article  3(2)  refers  to  “personal  data  of  data  subjects  who  are  in  the  Union”.  The 
application of the targeting criterion is therefore not limited by the citizenship, residence or other type 
of legal status of the data subject whose personal data are being processed. Recital 14 confirms this 
interpretation and states that “[t]he protection afforded by this Regulation should apply to natural 
persons, whatever their nationality or place of residence, in relation to the processing of their personal 
data”. 

This  provision  of  the  GDPR  reflects  EU  primary  law  which  also  lays  down  a  broad  scope  for  the 
protection of personal data, not limited to EU citizens, with Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental 
Rights providing that the right to the protection of personal data is not limited but is for “everyone”22.  

                                                           
22 Charter of Fundamental Right of the European Union, Article 8(1), « Everyone has the right to the protection 
of personal data concerning him or her”. 

Adopted  

14 

While the location of the data subject in the territory of the Union is a determining factor for the 
application of the targeting criterion as per Article 3(2), the EDPB considers that the nationality or legal 
status  of  a  data  subject  who  is  in  the  Union  cannot  limit  or  restrict  the  territorial  scope  of  the 
Regulation.  

The requirement that the data subject be located in the Union must be assessed at the moment when 
the relevant trigger activity takes place, i.e. at the moment of offering of goods or services or the 
moment  when  the  behaviour  is  being monitored,  regardless  of  the  duration of  the offer made  or 
monitoring undertaken.  

The EDPB considers however that, in relation to processing activities related to the offer of services, 
the provision is aimed at activities that intentionally, rather than inadvertently or incidentally, target 
individuals  in  the  EU.  Consequently,  if  the  processing  relates  to  a  service  that  is  only  offered  to 
individuals outside the EU but the service is not withdrawn when such individuals enter the EU, the 
related processing will not be subject to the GDPR. In this case the processing is not related to the 
intentional targeting of individuals in the EU but relates to the targeting of individuals outside the EU 
which will continue whether they remain outside the EU or whether they visit the Union.  
 
Example 8: An Australian company offers a mobile news and video content service, based on users’ 
preferences and interest. Users can receive daily or weekly updates. The service is offered exclusively 
to users located in Australia, who must provide an Australian phone number when subscribing.  

An Australian subscriber of the service travels to Germany on holiday and continues using the service. 

Although the Australian subscriber will be using the service while in the EU, the service is not ‘targeting’ 
individuals in the Union, but targets only individuals in Australia, and so the processing of personal 
data by the Australian company does not fall within the scope of the GDPR. 

 

 
Example 9: A start-up established in the USA, without any business presence or establishment in the 
EU,  provides  a  city-mapping  application  for  tourists.  The  application  processes  personal  data 
concerning  the  location  of  customers  using  the  app  (the  data  subjects)  once  they  start  using  the 
application in the city they visit, in order to offer targeted advertisement for places to visits, restaurant, 
bars  and  hotels.  The  application  is  available  for  tourists  while  they  visit  New  York,  San  Francisco, 
Toronto, Paris and Rome.  

The  US  start-up,  via  its  city  mapping  application,  is  specifically  targeting  individuals  in  the  Union 
(namely in Paris and Rome) through offering its services to them when they are in the Union. The 
processing of the EU-located data subjects’ personal data in connection with the offering of the service 
falls  within  the  scope  of the  GDPR  as  per  Article  3(2)a.  Furthermore,  by  processing  data  subject’s 
location data in order to offer targeted advertisement on the basis of their location, the processing 
activities  also  relate  to  the  monitoring  of  behaviour  of  individuals  in  the  Union.  The  US  start-up 
processing therefore also falls within the scope of the GDPR as per Article 3(2)b. 

The EDPB also wishes to underline that the fact of processing personal data of an individual in the 
Union  alone  is  not  sufficient  to  trigger  the  application  of  the  GDPR  to  processing  activities  of  a 
controller or processor not established in the Union. The element of "targeting" individuals in the EU, 
either  by offering  goods  or  services  to  them  or  by monitoring their  behaviour  (as  further  clarified 
below), must always be present in addition. 

Adopted  

15 

Example  10:  A  U.S.  citizen  is  travelling  through  Europe  during  his  holidays.  While  in  Europe,  he 
downloads and uses a news app that is offered by a U.S. company. The app is exclusively directed at 
the U.S. market, evident by the app terms of use and the indication of US Dollar as the sole currency 
available for payment. The collection of the U.S. tourist's personal data via the app by the U.S. company 
is not subject to the GDPR. 

Moreover, it should be noted that the processing of personal data of EU citizens or residents that takes 
place in a third country does not trigger the application of the GDPR, as long as the processing is not 
related to a specific offer directed at individuals in the EU or to a monitoring of their behaviour in the 
Union. 

Example 11: A bank in Taiwan has customers that are residing in Taiwan but hold German citizenship. 
The bank is active only in Taiwan; its activities are not directed at the EU market. The bank's processing 
of the personal data of its German customers is not subject to the GDPR.  

 

Example 12: The Canadian immigration authority processes personal data of EU citizens when entering 
the Canadian territory for the purpose of examining their visa application. This processing is not subject 
to the GDPR. 

b)  Offering of goods or services, irrespective of whether a payment of the data subject 

is required, to data subjects in the Union 

The first activity triggering the application of Article 3(2) is the “offering of goods or services”, a concept 
which has been further addressed by EU law and case law, which should be taken into account when 
applying  the  targeting  criterion.  The  offering  of  services  also  includes  the  offering  of  information 
society services, defined in point (b) of Article 1(1) of Directive (EU) 2015/153523 as “any Information 
Society  service,  that  is  to  say,  any  service  normally  provided  for  remuneration,  at  a  distance,  by 
electronic means and at the individual request of a recipient of services”. 

Article 3(2)(a) specifies that the targeting criterion concerning the offering of goods or services applies 
irrespective of whether a payment by the data subject is required. Whether the activity of a controller 
or processor not established in the Union is to be considered as an offer of a good or a service is not 
therefore dependent whether payment is made in exchange for the goods or services provided24. 

Example  13:  A  US  company,  without  any  establishment  in  the  EU,  processes  personal  data  of  its 
employees that were on a temporary business trip to France, Belgium and the Netherlands for human 
resources  purposes,  in  particular  to  proceed  with  the  reimbursement  of  their  accommodation 
expenses and the payment of their daily allowance, which vary depending on the country they are in. 

In this situation, while the processing activity is specifically connected to persons on the territory of 
the Union (i.e. employees who are temporarily in France, Belgium and the Netherlands) it does not 
relate to an offer of a service to those individuals, but rather is part of the processing necessary for the 
employer to fulfil its contractual obligation and human resources duties related to the individual’s 

                                                           
23 Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 laying down a 
procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and of rules on Information 
Society services. 
24 See, in particular, CJEU, C-352/85, Bond van Adverteerders and Others vs. The Netherlands State, 26 April 
1988, par. 16), and CJEU, C-109/92, Wirth [1993] Racc. I-6447, par. 15. 

Adopted  

16 

employment. The processing activity does not relate to an offer of service and is therefore not subject 
to the provision of the GDPR as per Article 3(2)a.  

Another key element to be assessed in determining whether the Article 3(2)(a) targeting criterion can 
be met is whether the offer of goods or services is directed at a person in the Union, or in other words, 
whether  the  conduct  on  the  part  of  the  controller, which  determines the means  and  purposes  of 
processing, demonstrates its intention to offer goods or a services to a data subject located in the 
Union. Recital 23 of the GDPR indeed clarifies that “in order to determine whether such a controller or 
processor is offering goods or services to data subjects who are in the Union, it should be ascertained 
whether it is apparent that the controller or processor envisages offering services to data subjects in 
one or more Member States in the Union.” 

The recital further specifies that “whereas the mere accessibility of the controller's, processor's or an 
intermediary's website in the Union, of an email address or of other contact details, or the use of a 
language  generally  used  in  the  third  country  where  the  controller  is  established,  is  insufficient  to 
ascertain such intention, factors such as the use of a language or a currency generally used in one or 
more Member States with the possibility of ordering goods and services in that other language, or the 
mentioning of customers or users who are in the Union, may make it apparent that the controller 
envisages offering goods or services to data subjects in the Union.” 

The  elements  listed  in  Recital  23  echo  and  are  in  line  with  the  CJEU  case  law  based  on  Council 
Regulation 44/200125 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and 
commercial matters, and in particular its Article 15(1)(c). In Pammer v Reederei Karl Schlüter GmbH & 
Co and Hotel Alpenhof v Heller (Joined cases C-585/08 and C-144/09), the Court was asked to clarify 
what it means to “direct activity” within the meaning of Article 15(1)(c) of Regulation 44/2001 (Brussels 
I). The CJEU held that, in order to determine whether a trader can be considered to be “directing” its 
activity to the Member State of the consumer’s domicile, within the meaning of Article 15(1)(c) of 
Brussels I, the trader must have manifested its intention to establish commercial relations with such 
consumers. In this context, the CJEU considered evidence able to demonstrate that the trader was 
envisaging doing business with consumers domiciled in a Member State.  

While the notion of “directing an activity” differs from the “offering of goods or services”, the EDPB 
deems this case law in in Pammer v Reederei Karl Schlüter GmbH & Co and Hotel Alpenhof v Heller 
(Joined cases C-585/08 and C-144/09)26 might be of assistance when considering whether goods or 
services are offered to a data subject in the Union. When taking into account the specific facts of the 
case,  the  following  factors  could  therefore  inter  alia  be  taken  into  consideration,  possibly  in 
combination with one another:  

- 

- 

The EU or at least one Member State is designated by name with reference to the good or service 
offered; 
The data controller or processor pays a search engine operator for an internet referencing service 
in order to facilitate access to its site by consumers in the Union; or the controller or processor has 
launched marketing and advertisement campaigns directed at an EU country audience 
The international nature of the activity at issue, such as certain tourist activities; 

- 
                                                           
25 Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and 
enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. 
26 It is all the more relevant that, under Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 593/2008 of the European Parliament and 
of the Council of 17 June 2008 on the law applicable to contractual obligations (Rome I), in absence of choice of 
law, this criterion of “directing activity” to the country of the consumer’s habitual residence is taken into account 
to designate the law of the consumer’s habitual residence as the law applicable to the contract. 

Adopted  

17 

- 
- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

The mention of dedicated addresses or phone numbers to be reached from an EU country;  
The use of a top-level domain name other than that of the third country in which the controller or 
processor is established, for example “.de”, or the use of neutral top-level domain names such as 
“.eu”;  
The description of travel instructions from one or more other EU Member States to the place 
where the service is provided;  
The mention of an international clientele composed of customers domiciled in various EU Member 
States, in particular by presentation of accounts written by such customers; 
The  use  of  a  language  or  a  currency  other  than  that  generally  used  in  the  trader’s  country, 
especially a language or currency of one or more EU Member states; 
The data controller offers the delivery of goods in EU Member States.  

As already mentioned, several of the elements listed above, if taken alone may not amount to a clear 
indication of the intention of a data controller to offer goods or services to data subjects in the Union, 
however, they should each be taken into account in any in concreto analysis in order to determine 
whether the combination of factors relating to the data controller’s commercial activities can together 
be considered as an offer of goods or services directed at data subjects in the Union.  

It is however important to recall that Recital 23 confirms that the mere accessibility of the controller's, 
processor's or an intermediary's website in the Union, the mention on the website of its e-mail or 
geographical address, or of its telephone number without an international code, does not, of itself, 
provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate the controller or processor’s intention to offer goods or a 
services to a data subject located in the Union. In this context, the EDPB recalls that when goods or 
services are inadvertently or incidentally provided to a person on the territory of the Union, the related 
processing of personal data would not fall within the territorial scope of the GDPR.  

Example 14: A website, based and managed in Turkey, offers services for the creation, editing, printing 
and shipping of personalised family photo albums. The website is available in English, French, Dutch 
and German and payments can be made in Euros. The website indicates that photo albums can only 
be delivered by post mail in France, Benelux countries and Germany.  

In  this  case,  it  is  clear  that  the creation, editing  and  printing  of  personalised  family  photo  albums 
constitute  a  service  within  the  meaning  of  EU  law.  The  fact  that  the  website  is  available  in  four 
languages  of  the  EU  and  that  photo  albums  can  be  delivered  by  post  in  six  EU  Member  States 
demonstrates that  there  is  an  intention on  the  part  of  the  Turkish  website  to  offer  its  services  to 
individuals in the Union.  

As a consequence, it is clear that the processing carried out by the Turkish website, as a data controller, 
relates  to  the  offering  of  a  service  to  data  subjects  in  the  Union  and  is  therefore  subject  to  the 
obligations and provisions of the GDPR, as per its Article 3(2)(a). 

In accordance with Article 27, the data controller will have to designate a representative in the Union.  
 
Example 15: A private company based in Monaco processes personal data of its employees for the 
purposes  of  salary  payment.  A  large  number  of  the  company’s  employees  are  French  and  Italian 
residents.  
In this case, while the processing carried out by the company relates to data subjects in France and 
Italy, it does not takes place in the context of an offer of goods or services. Indeed human resources 
management, including salary payment by a third-country company cannot be considered as an offer 
of service within the meaning of Art 3(2)a. The processing at stake does not relate to the offer of goods 

Adopted  

18 

or services to data subjects in the Union (nor to the monitoring of behaviour) and, as a consequence, 
is not subject to the provisions of the GDPR, as per Article 3. 

This assessment is without prejudice to the applicable law of the third country concerned. 
 
Example 16: A Swiss University in Zurich is launching its Master degree selection process, by making 
available an online platform where candidates can upload their CV and cover letter, together with their 
contact details. The selection process is open to any student with a sufficient level of German and 
English and holding a Bachelor degree. The University does not specifically advertise to students in EU 
Universities, and only takes payment in Swiss currency. 
 
As there is no distinction or specification for students from the Union in the application and selection 
process for this Master degree, it cannot be established that the Swiss University has the intention to 
target students from a particular EU member states. The sufficient level of German and English is a 
general requirement that applies to any applicant whether a Swiss resident, a person in the Union or 
a student from a third country. Without other factors to indicate the specific targeting of students in 
EU member states, it therefore cannot be established that the processing in question relates to the 
offer of an education service to data subject in the Union, and such processing will therefore not be 
subject to the GDPR provisions.  

The Swiss University also offers summer courses in international relations and specifically advertises 
this offer in German and Austrian universities in order to maximise the courses’ attendance. In this 
case, there is a clear intention from the Swiss University to offer such service to data subjects who are 
in the Union, and the GDPR will apply to the related processing activities. 

c)  Monitoring of data subjects’ behaviour  
The second type of activity triggering the application of Article 3(2) is the monitoring of data subject 
behaviour as far as their behaviour takes place within the Union.  

Recital 24 clarifies that “[t]he processing of personal data of data subjects who are in the Union by a 
controller or processor not established in the Union should also be subject to this Regulation when it is 
related to the monitoring of the behaviour of such data subjects in so far as their behaviour takes place 
within the Union.”  

For Article 3(2)(b) to trigger the application of the GDPR, the behaviour monitored must first relate to 
a data subject in the Union and, as a cumulative criterion, the monitored behaviour must take place 
within the territory of the Union.  

The nature of the processing activity which can be considered as behavioural monitoring is further 
specified in Recital 24 which states that “in order to determine whether a processing activity can be 
considered to monitor the behaviour of data subjects, it should be ascertained whether natural persons 
are tracked on the internet including potential subsequent use of personal data processing techniques 
which consist of profiling a natural person, particularly in order to take decisions concerning her or him 
or for analysing or predicting her or his personal preferences, behaviours and attitudes.” While Recital 
24 exclusively relates to the monitoring of a behaviour through the tracking of a person on the internet, 
the EDPB considers that tracking through other types of network or technology involving personal data 
processing should also be taken into account in determining whether a processing activity amounts to 
a behavioural monitoring, for example through wearable and other smart devices. 

Adopted  

19 

As opposed to the provision of Article 3(2)(a), neither Article 3(2)(b) nor Recital 24 expressly introduce 
a necessary degree of “intention to target” on the part of the data controller or processor to determine 
whether the monitoring activity would trigger the application of the GDPR to the processing activities. 
However, the use of the word “monitoring” implies that the controller has a specific purpose in mind 
for the collection and subsequent reuse of the relevant data about an individual’s behaviour within 
the EU. The EDPB does not consider that any online collection or analysis of personal data of individuals 
in the EU would automatically count as “monitoring”. It will be necessary to consider the controller’s 
purpose for processing the data and, in particular, any subsequent behavioural analysis or profiling 
techniques involving that data. The EDPB takes into account the wording of Recital 24, which indicates 
that to determine whether processing involves monitoring of a data subject behaviour, the tracking of 
natural persons on the Internet, including the potential subsequent use of profiling techniques, is a 
key consideration. 

The application of Article 3(2)(b) where a data controller or processor monitors the behaviour of data 
subjects  who  are  in  the  Union  could  therefore  encompass  a  broad  range  of  monitoring  activities, 
including in particular:  

-  Behavioural advertisement  
-  Geo-localisation activities, in particular for marketing purposes  
-  Online tracking through the use of cookies or other tracking techniques such as fingerprinting 
- 
-  CCTV 
-  Market surveys and other behavioural studies based on individual profiles 
-  Monitoring or regular reporting on an individual’s health status 

Personalised diet and health analytics services online 

Example 17: A retail consultancy company established in the US provides advice on retail layout to a 
shopping  centre  in  France,  based  on  an  analysis  of  customers’  movements  throughout  the  centre 
collected through Wi-Fi tracking.  

The analysis of a customers’ movements within the centre through Wi-Fi tracking will amount to the 
monitoring of individuals’ behaviour. In this case, the data subjects’ behaviour takes place in the Union 
since  the  shopping  centre  is  located  in  France.  The  consultancy  company,  as  a  data  controller,  is 
therefore subject to the GDPR in respect of the processing of this data for this purpose as per its Article 
3(2)(b).  

In accordance with Article 27, the data controller will have to designate a representative in the Union. 

 
Example 18: An app developer established in Canada with no establishment in the Union monitors the 
behaviour of data subject in the Union and is therefore subject to the GDPR, as per Article 3(2)b. The 
developer uses a processor established in the US for the app optimisation and maintenance purposes. 

In relation to this processing, the Canadian controller has the duty to only use appropriate processors 
and to ensure that its obligations under the GDPR are reflected in the contract or legal act governing 
the relation with its processor in the US, pursuant to Article 28. 
d)  Processor not established in the Union 
Processing activities which are “related” to the targeting activity which triggered the application of 
Article 3(2) fall within the territorial scope of the GDPR. The EDPB considers that there needs to be a 

Adopted  

20 

connection between the processing activity and the offering of good or service, but both processing 
by a controller and a processor are relevant and to be taken into account.  

When it comes to a data processor not established in the Union, in order to determine whether its 
processing  may  be  subject  to  the  GDPR  as  per  Article  3(2),  it  is  necessary  to  look  at  whether  the 
processing activities by the processor “are related” to the targeting activities of the controller. 

The EDPB considers that, where processing activities by a controller relates to the offering of goods or 
services  or  to  the  monitoring  of  individuals’  behaviour  in  the  Union  (‘targeting’),  any  processor 
instructed to carry out that processing activity on behalf of the controller will fall within the scope of 
the GDPR by virtue of Art 3(2) in respect of that processing. 

The ‘Targeting’ character of a processing activity is linked to its purposes and means; a decision to 
target individuals in the Union can only be made by an entity acting as a controller. Such interpretation 
does  not  rule  out  the  possibility  that  the  processor  may  actively  take  part  in  processing  activities 
related to carrying out the targeting criteria (i.e. the processor offers goods or services or carries out 
monitoring actions on behalf of, and on instruction from, the controller). 

The EDPB therefore considers that the focus should be on the connection between the processing 
activities carried out by the processor and the targeting activity undertaken by a data controller. 

Example 19: A Brazilian company sells food ingredients and local recipes online, making this offer of 
good available to persons in the Union, by advertising these products and offering the delivery in the 
France, Spain and Portugal. In this context, the company instructs a data processor also established in 
Brazil to develop special offers to customers in France, Spain and Portugal on the basis of their previous 
orders and to carry out the related data processing. 

Processing activities by the processor, under the instruction of the data controller, are related to the 
offer of good to data subject in the Union. Furthermore, by developing these customized offers, the 
data processor directly monitors data subjects in the EU. Processing by the processor are therefore 
subject to the GDPR, as per Article 3(2).  
 
Example 20: A US company has developed a health and lifestyle app, allowing users to record with 
the US company their personal indicators (sleep time, weight, blood pressure, heartbeat, etc…). The 
app then provide users with daily advice on food and sport recommendations. The processing is 
carried out by the US data controller. The app is made available to, and is used by, individuals in the 
Union. For the purpose of data storage, the US company uses a processor established in the US 
(cloud service provider)  
To the extent that the US company is monitoring the behaviour of individuals in the EU, in operating 
the health and lifestyle app it will be ‘targeting’ individuals in the EU and its processing of the 
personal data of individuals in the EU will fall within the scope of the GDPR under Art 3(2).  

In carrying out the processing on instructions from, and on behalf of, the US company the cloud 
provider/processor is carrying out a processing activity ‘relating to’ the targeting of individuals in the 
EU by its controller. This processing activity by the processor on behalf of its controller falls within 
the scope of the GDPR under Art 3(2). 
 
Example 21: A Turkish company offers cultural package travels in the Middle East with tour guides 
speaking English, French and Spanish. The package travels are notably advertised and offered through 
a website available in the three languages, allowing for online booking and payment in Euros and GBP.  
For marketing and commercial prospection purposes, the company instructs a data processor, a call 

Adopted  

21 

center, established in Tunisia to contact former customers in Ireland, France, Belgium and Spain in 
order to get feedback on their previous travels and inform them about new offers and destinations. 
The controller is ‘targeting’ by offering its services to individuals in the EU and its processing will fall 
within the scope of Art 3(2). 

The processing activities of the Tunisian processor, which promotes the controllers’ services towards 
individuals in the EU, is also related to the offer of services by the controller and therefore falls within 
the scope of Art 3(2). Furthermore, in this specific case, the Tunisian processor actively takes part in 
processing activities related to carrying out the targeting criteria, by offering services on behalf of, and 
on instruction from, the Turkish controller. 

e)  Interaction with other GDPR provisions and other legislations 
The EDPB will also further assess the interplay between the application of the territorial scope of the 
GDPR as per Article 3 and the provisions on international data transfers as per Chapter V. Additional 
guidance may be issued in this regard, should this be necessary. 
 
Controllers or processors not established in the EU will be required to comply with their own third 
country national laws in relation to the processing of personal data. However, where such processing 
relates to the targeting of individuals in the Union as per Article 3(2) the controller will, in addition to 
being subject to its country’s national law, be required to comply with the GDPR. This would be the 
case regardless of whether the processing is carried out in compliance with a legal obligation in the 
third country or simply as a matter of choice by the controller.  

3  PROCESSING IN A PLACE WHERE MEMBER STATE LAW APPLIES BY 

VIRTUE OF PUBLIC INTERNATIONAL LAW 

Article 3(3) provides that “[t]his Regulation applies to the processing of personal data by a controller 
not  established  in  the  Union,  but  in  a  place  where  Member  State  law  applies  by  virtue  of  public 
international law”. This provision is expanded upon in Recital 25 which states that “[w]here Member 
State law applies by virtue of public international law, this Regulation should also apply to a controller 
not established in the Union, such as in a Member State's diplomatic mission or consular post.” 

The EDPB therefore considers that the GDPR applies to personal data processing carried out by EU 
Member States’ embassies and consulates located outside the EU as such processing falls within the 
scope of the GDPR by virtue of Article 3(3).. A Member State’s diplomatic or consular post, as a data 
controller or processor, would then be subject to all relevant provisions of the GDPR, including when 
it comes to the rights of the data subject, the general obligations related to controller and processor 
and the transfers of personal data to third countries or international organisations.  

Example 22: The Dutch consulate in Kingston, Jamaica, opens an online application process for the 
recruitment of local staff in order to support its administration. 

While the Dutch consulate in Kingston, Jamaica, is not established in the Union, the fact that it is a 
consular post of an EU country where Member State law applies by virtue of public international law 
renders the GDPR applicable to its processing of personal data, as per Article 3(3).  
 

Adopted  

22 

Example 23: A German cruise ship travelling in international waters is processing data of the guests on 
board for the purpose of tailoring the in-cruise entertainment offer.  
While  the  ship  is  located  outside  the  Union,  in  international  waters,  the  fact  that  it  is  German-
registered cruise ship means that by virtue of public international law the GDPR shall be applicable to 
its processing of personal data, as per Article 3(3). 

Though not related to the application of Article 3(3), a different situation is the one where, by virtue 
of international law, certain entities, bodies or organisations established in the Union benefit from 
privileges and immunities such as those laid down in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 
of 196127, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 1963 or headquarter agreements concluded 
between international organisations and their host countries in the Union. In this regard, the EDPB 
recalls that the application of the GDPR is without prejudice to the provisions of international law, such 
as the ones governing the privileges and immunities of non-EU diplomatic missions and consular posts, 
as well as international organisations. At the same time, it is important to recall that any controller or 
processor that falls within the scope of the GDPR for a given processing activity and that exchanges 
personal data with such entities, bodies and organisations have to comply with the GDPR, including 
where applicable its rules on transfers to third countries or international organisations. 

4  REPRESENTATIVE  OF  CONTROLLERS  OR  PROCESSORS  NOT 

ESTABLISHED IN THE UNION 

Data controllers or processors subject to the GDPR as per its Article 3(2) are under the obligation to 
designate a representative in the Union. A controller or processor not established in the Union but 
subject to the GDPR failing to designate a representative in the Union would therefore be in breach of 
the Regulation.  

This provision is not entirely new since Directive 95/46/EC already provided for a similar obligation. 
Under the Directive, this provision concerned controllers not established on Community territory that, 
for purposes of processing personal data, made use of equipment, automated or otherwise, situated 
on the territory of a Member State. The GDPR imposes an obligation to designate a representative in 
the Union to any controller or processor falling under the scope of Article 3(2), unless they meet the 
exemption criteria as per Article 27(2). In order to facilitate the application of this specific provision, 
the EDPB deems it necessary to provide further guidance on the designation process, establishment 
obligations and responsibilities of the representative in the Union as per Article 27. 

It is worth noting that a controller or processor not established in the Union who has designated in 
writing a representative in the Union, in accordance with article 27 of the GDPR, does not fall within 
the scope of article 3(1), meaning that the presence of the representative within the Union does not 
constitute an “establishment” of a controller or processor by virtue of article 3(1). 
a)  Designation of a representative 
Recital 80 clarifies that “[t]he representative should be explicitly designated by a written mandate of 
the controller or of the processor to act on its behalf with regard to its obligations under this Regulation. 
The designation of such a representative does not affect the responsibility or liability of the controller 
or of the processor under this Regulation. Such a representative should perform its tasks according to 

                                                           
27 http://legal.un.org/ilc/texts/instruments/english/conventions/9_1_1961.pdf  

Adopted  

23 

the  mandate  received  from  the  controller  or  processor,  including  cooperating  with  the  competent 
supervisory authorities with regard to any action taken to ensure compliance with this Regulation.” 

The written mandate referred to in Recital 80 shall therefore govern the relations and obligations 
between the representative in the Union and the data controller or processor established outside the 
Union,  while  not  affecting  the  responsibility  or  liability  of  the  controller  or  processor.  The 
representative  in  the  Union  may  be  a  natural  or  a  legal  person  established  in  the  Union  able  to 
represent a data controller or processor established outside the Union with regard to their respective 
obligations under the GDPR. 

In practice, the function of representative in the Union can be exercised based on a service contract 
concluded with an individual or an organisation, and can therefore be assumed by a wide range of 
commercial and non-commercial entities, such as law firms, consultancies, private companies, etc… 
provided that such entities are established in the Union. One representative can also act on behalf of 
several non-EU controllers and processors. 

When the function of representative is assumed by a company or any other type of organisation, it is 
recommended that a single individual be assigned as a lead contact and person “in charge” for each 
controller or processor represented. It would generally also be useful to specify these points in the 
service contract. 

In line with the GDPR, the EDPB confirms that, when several processing activities of a controller or 
processor fall within the scope of Article 3(2) GDPR (and none of the exceptions of Article 27(2) GDPR 
apply),  that  controller  or  processor  is  not  expected  to  designate  several  representatives  for  each 
separate processing activity falling within the scope of article 3(2).The EDPB does not consider the 
function of representative in the Union as compatible with the role of an external data protection 
officer  (“DPO”)  which  would  be  established  in  the  Union.  Article  38(3)  establishes  some  basic 
guarantees  to  help  ensure  that  DPOs  are  able  to  perform  their  tasks  with  a  sufficient  degree  of 
autonomy within their organisation. In particular, controllers or processors are required to ensure that 
the DPO “does not receive any instructions regarding the exercise of [his or her] tasks”. Recital 97 adds 
that DPOs, “whether or not they are an employee of the controller, should be in a position to perform 
their  duties  and  tasks  in  an  independent  manner”28.  Such  requirement  for  a  sufficient  degree  of 
autonomy and independence of a data protection officer does not appear to be compatible with the 
function  of  representative  in  the  Union.  The  representative  is  indeed  subject  to  a  mandate  by  a 
controller or processor and will be acting on its behalf and therefore under its direct instruction29. The 
representative is mandated by the controller or processor it represents, and therefore acting on its 
behalf in exercising its task, and such a role cannot be compatible with the carrying out of duties and 
tasks of the data protection officer in an independent manner.  

Furthermore, and to complement its interpretation, the EDPB recalls the position already taken by the 
WP29 stressing that “a conflict of interests may also arise for example if an external DPO is asked to 
represent the controller or processor before the Courts in cases involving data protection issues”30. 

Similarly, given the possible conflict of obligation and interests in cases of enforcement proceedings, 
the EDPB does not consider the function of a data controller representative in the Union as compatible 

                                                           
28 WP29 Guidelines on Data Protection Officers (‘DPOs’), WP 243 rev.01 - endorsed by the EDPB. 
29 An external DPO also acting as representative in the Union could not for example be in a situation where he is 
instructed, as a representative, to communicate to a data subject a decision or measure taken by the controller 
or processor which he or she, as a DPO, had deemed uncompliant with the provisions of the GDPR and advised 
against. 
30 WP29 Guidelines on Data Protection Officers (‘DPOs’), WP 243 rev.01 - endorsed by the EDPB. 

Adopted  

24 

with the role of data processor for that same data controller, in particular when it comes to compliance 
with their respective responsibilities and compliance.   

While the GDPR does not impose any obligation on the data controller or the representative itself to 
notify the designation of the latter to a supervisory authority, the EDPB recalls that, in accordance with 
Articles  13(1)a  and  14(1)a,  as  part  of  their  information  obligations,  controllers  shall  provide  data 
subjects information as to the identity of their representative in the Union. This information shall for 
example be included in the [privacy notice and] upfront information provided to data subjects at the 
moment of data collection. A controller not established in the Union but falling under Article 3(2) and 
failing to inform data subjects who are in the Union of the identity of its representative would be in 
breach of its transparency obligations as per the GDPR. Such information should furthermore be easily 
accessible  to  supervisory  authorities  in  order  to  facilitate  the  establishment  of  a  contact  for 
cooperation needs.  

Example 24: The website referred to in example 12, based and managed in Turkey, offers services for 
the  creation,  edition,  printing  and  shipping  of  personalised  family  photo  albums.  The  website  is 
available in English, French, Dutch and German and payments can be made in Euros or Sterling. The 
website  indicates  that  photo  albums  can  only  be  delivered  by  post  mail  in  the  France,  Benelux 
countries and Germany. This website being subject to the GDPR, as per its Article 3(2)(a), the data 
controller must designate a representative in the Union. 

The representative must be established in one of the Member States where the service offered is 
available, in this case either in France, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg or Germany. The name and 
contact  details  of  the  data  controller  and  its  representative  in  the  Union  must  be  part  of  the 
information made available online to data subjects once they start using the service by creating their 
photo album. It must also appear in the website general privacy notice.  

b) Exemptions from the designation obligation31 

While the application of Article 3(2) triggers the obligation to designate a representative in the Union 
for controllers or processors established outside the Union, Article 27(2) foresees derogation from the 
mandatory designation of a representative in the Union, in two distinct cases: 

•  processing is “occasional, does not include, on a large scale, processing of special categories 
of  data  as  referred  to  in  Article  9(1)  or  processing  of  personal  data  relating  to  criminal 
convictions and offences referred to in Article 10”, and such processing “is unlikely to result in 
a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, taking into account the nature, context, 
scope and purposes of the processing”.  

In line with positions taken previously by the Article 29 Working Party, the EPDB considers that a 
processing activity can only be considered as “occasional” if it is not carried out regularly, and 
occurs outside the regular course of business or activity of the controller or processor32.  

Furthermore, while the GDPR does not define what constitutes large-scale processing, the WP29 
has previously recommended in its guidelines WP243 on data protection officers (DPOs) that the 
following factors, in particular, be considered when determining whether the processing is carried 
out on a large scale: the number of data subjects concerned - either as a specific number or as a 

                                                           
31 Part of the criteria and interpretation laid down in G29 WP243 rev.1 (Data Protection Officer) - endorsed by 
the EDPB can be used as a basis for the exemptions to the designation obligation. 
32 WP29 position paper on the derogations from the obligation to maintain records of processing activities 
pursuant to Article 30(5) GDPR. 

Adopted  

25 

proportion of the relevant population; the volume of data and/or the range of different data items 
being processed; the duration, or permanence, of the data processing activity; the geographical 
extent of the processing activity33.  

Finally, the EDPB highlights that the exemption from the designation obligation as per Article 27 
refers to processing “unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons”34, 
thus not limiting the exemption to processing unlikely to result in a high risk to the rights and 
freedoms of data subjects. In line with Recital 75, when assessing the risk to the rights and freedom 
of data subjects, considerations should be given to both the likelihood and severity of the risk.  

Or 
 

•  processing is carried out “by a public authority or body”.  

 

The qualification as a “public authority or body” for an entity established outside the Union will 
need to be assessed by supervisory authorities in concreto and on a case by case basis35. The EDPB 
notes that, given the nature of their tasks and missions, cases where a public authority or body in 
a third country would be offering goods or services to data subject in the Union, or would monitor 
their behaviour taking place within the Union, are likely to be limited. c) Establishment in one of 
the Member States where the data subjects whose personal data are processed  

Article 27(3) foresees that “the representative shall be established in one of the Member States where 
the data subjects, whose personal data are processed in relation to the offering of goods or services 
to  them,  or  whose  behaviour  is  monitored,  are”.  In  cases  where  a  significant  proportion  of  data 
subjects whose personal data are processed are located in one particular Member State, the EDPB 
recommends, as a good practice, that the representative is established in that same Member State. 
However, the representative must remain easily accessible for data subjects in Member States where 
it is not established and where the services or goods are being offered or where the behaviour is being 
monitored.  

The EDPB confirms that the criterion for the establishment of the representative in the Union is the 
location of data subjects whose personal data are being processed. The place of processing, even by a 
processor  established  in  another  Member  State,  is  here  not  a  relevant  factor  for  determining  the 
location of the establishment of the representative. 

Example 25: An Indian pharmaceutical company, with neither business presence nor establishment in 
the  Union  and  subject  to  the  GDPR  as  per  Article  3(2),  sponsors  clinical  trials  carried  out  by 
investigators  (hospitals)  in  Belgium,  Luxembourg  and  the  Netherlands.  The  majority  of  patients 
participating to the clinical trials are situated in Belgium.  

The Indian pharmaceutical company, as a data controller, shall designate a representative in the Union 
established in one of the three Member States where patients, as data subjects, are participating in 
the clinical trial (Belgium, Luxembourg or the Netherlands). Since most patients are Belgian residents, 

                                                           
33 WP29 guidelines on data protections officers (DPOs), adopted on 13th December 2016, as last revised on 5th 
April 2017, WP 243 rev.01 - endorsed by the EDPB.  
34 Article 27(2)(a) GDPR. 
35 The GDPR does not define what constitutes a ‘public authority or body’. The EDPB considers that such a 
notion is to be determined under national law. Accordingly, public authorities and bodies include national, 
regional and local authorities, but the concept, under the applicable national laws, typically also includes a 
range of other bodies governed by public law. 

Adopted  

26 

it  is  recommended  that  the  representative  is  established  in  Belgium.  Should  this  be  the  case,  the 
representative  in  Belgium  should  however  be  easily  accessible  to  data  subjects  and  supervisory 
authorities in the Netherlands and Luxembourg.  

In this specific case, the representative in the Union could be the legal representative of the sponsor 
in the Union, as per Article 74 of Regulation (EU) 536/2014 on clinical trials, provided that it does not 
act as a data processor on behalf of the clinical trial sponsor, that it is established in one of the three 
Member States, and that both functions are governed by and exercised in compliance with each legal 
framework. 

c) Obligations and responsibilities of the representative 

The representative in the Union acts on behalf of the controller or processor it represents with regard 
to  the  controller  or  processor’s  obligations  under  the  GDPR.  This  implies  notably  the  obligations 
relating to the exercise of data subject rights, and in this regard and as already stated, the identity and 
contact details of the representative must be provided to data subjects in accordance with articles 13 
and 14. While not itself responsible for complying with data subject rights, the representative must 
facilitate the communication between data subjects and the controller or processor represented, in 
order to make the exercise of data subjects’ rights are effective. 

As per Article 30, the controller or processor’s representative shall in particular maintain a record of 
processing activities under the responsibility of the controller or processor. The EDPB considers that, 
while the maintenance of this record is an obligation imposed on both the controller or processer and 
the representative,, the controller or processor not established in the Union is responsible for the 
primary content and update of the record and must simultaneously provide its representative with all 
accurate  and  updated  information  so that the  record  can  also  be  kept and made  available  by  the 
representative at all time At the same time, it is the representative´s own responsibility to be able to 
provide it in line with Article 27, e.g. when being addressed by a supervisory authority according to 
Art. 27(4). 

As clarified by recital 80, the representative should also perform its tasks according to the mandate 
received  from  the  controller  or  processor,  including  cooperating  with  the  competent  supervisory 
authorities with regard to any action taken to ensure compliance with this Regulation. In practice, this 
means that a supervisory authority would contact the representative in connection with any matter 
relating to the compliance obligations of a controller or processor established outside the Union, and 
the  representative  shall  be  able  to  facilitate  any  informational or  procedural exchange  between  a 
requesting supervisory authority and a controller or processor established outside the Union. 

With the help of a team if necessary, the representative in the Union must therefore be in a position 
to  efficiently  communicate  with  data  subjects  and  cooperate  with  the  supervisory  authorities 
concerned.  This  means  that  this  communication  should  in  principle  take  place  in  the  language  or 
languages used by the supervisory authorities and the data subjects concerned or, should this result 
in a disproportionate effort, that other means and techniques shall be used by the representative in 
order to ensure the effectiveness of communication. The availability of a representative is therefore 
essential in order to ensure that data subjects and supervisory authorities will be able to establish 
contact easily with the non-EU controller or processor. In line with Recital 80 and Article 27(5), the 
designation  of  a  representative  in  the  Union  does  not  affect  the  responsibility  and  liability  of  the 
controller or of the processor under the GDPR and shall be without prejudice to legal actions which 
could be initiated against the controller or the processor themselves. The GDPR does not establish a 
substitutive liability of the representative in place of the controller or processor it represents in the 
Union. 

Adopted  

27 

It should however be noted that the concept of the representative was introduced precisely with the 
aim of facilitating the liaison with and ensuring effective enforcement of the GDPR against controllers 
or  processors  that  fall  under  Article 3(2) of  the  GDPR.  To  this  end,  it was  the  intention  to enable 
supervisory authorities to initiate enforcement proceedings through the representative designated by 
the controllers or processors not established in the Union. This includes the possibility for supervisory 
authorities  to  address  corrective  measures  or  administrative  fines  and  penalties  imposed  on  the 
controller or processor not established in the Union to the representative, in accordance with articles 
58(2) and 83 of the GDPR. The possibility to hold a representative directly liable is however limited to 
its direct obligations referred to in articles 30 and article 58(1) a of the GDPR 

The  EDPB  furthermore  highlights  that  article  50  of  the  GDPR  notably  aims  at  facilitating  the 
enforcement of legislation in relation to third countries and international organisation, and that the 
development  of  further  international  cooperation  mechanisms  in  this  regard  is  currently  being 
considered.  

 

 

Adopted  

28 

