 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  3/2020  on  the  France  data  protection  supervisory 
authority  draft  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of 
conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

Adopted on 28 January 2020 

 

 

Adopted 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Summary of the facts ....................................................................................................................... 4 

ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4 

Analysis of the FR accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies ..... 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS .......................................................................................................... 5 

INDEPENDENCE ................................................................................................................ 7 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST .................................................................................................... 8 

EXPERTISE ......................................................................................................................... 8 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES ............................................................... 9 

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING......................................................................... 10 

COMMUNICATING WITH THE FR SA .............................................................................. 11 

CODE REVIEW MECHANISMS ......................................................................................... 11 

LEGAL STATUS ................................................................................................................ 11 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................................................................... 12 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................. 13 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, as last modified 
and adopted on 10 September 2019 
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter  “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41 GDPR. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with 
regard to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that 
apply  during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority. 
Even though the GDPR does not directly impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  to  provide  written  guidance  explaining  the 
accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting them to adopt these  requirements in line with 
this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism  in  order  to  allow  the  setting  of  suitable  requirements  ensuring  that  monitoring  bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term ‘accreditation’. However, article 
41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. There 
are a number of requirements, which  should  be met in order to  satisfy the competent supervisory 
authority to accredit a monitoring body. Code owners are required to explain and demonstrate how 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 

 

Adopted 

3 

their  proposed  monitoring  body  meets  the  requirements  set  out  in  article  41  (2)  to  obtain 
accreditation. 

 (4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The France Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “FR SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 25th October 2019.  

 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

3. 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41(2) 
GDPR criteria and  should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

4. 

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1)(p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 

Adopted 

4 

foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

5. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to ‘encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking into account  
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium sized enterprises’ (article 40 (1) GDPR). Therefore, the Board recognises that the requirements 
need  to  work  for  different  types  of  codes,  applying  to  sectors  of  diverse  size,  addressing  various 
interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

FR SA to take further action.  

8. 

9. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  document  submitted  by  FR  SA  contains  not  only  the  accreditation 
requirements, but also explanatory notes, which include general and specific explanations about the 
FR SA’s approach to accreditation requirements. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the FR SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation.  The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the FR accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring 

bodies 

10. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all  codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct, 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

11. 

The Board notes that the draft accreditation requirements do not completely follow the structure set 
out  in  Section  12  of  the  Guidelines.  In  order  to  facilitate  the  assessment  and  standardise  the 
requirements, the Board recommends the FR SA to follow the structure of the Guidelines in the draft 
decision.  

12. 

The  Board  observes  that  the  draft  requirements  refer  repeatedly  to  the  auditing  activities  of  the 
monitoring body and other related terms, such as “auditors” and “audit mission” (e.g. sections 1.1, 

Adopted 

5 

13. 

14. 

3.2, 4, 5, 8 and 9). The Board is of the opinion that the monitoring activities are not limited to audit, 
since they can be performed in different ways. On the same line, the staff of the monitoring body will 
not  necessarily  be  auditors,  due  to  the  different  kind  of  tasks  that  the  monitoring  body  performs. 
Therefore, the Board recommends the FR SA to change the references to “audit” and related terms, in 
order to reflect the broader spectrum of activities that can be performed by the monitoring body.  

The Board notes that, in page 3 of the draft decision, the FR SA establishes that the accreditation term 
will be initially set at three years, after which there will be a review of the accreditation that might 
result in the loss of the accreditation. The Board observes that the sentence might be understood as if 
the review of the accreditation requirements only takes place every three years. The Board notes that 
article 41 GDPR does not refer to the validity of the accreditation of a monitoring body and that there 
is  a  margin  of  manoeuvre  for  the  national  SAs.  Moreover,  the  Board  notes  that  the  accreditation 
requirements  should  be  re-assessed  periodically,  in  order  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  GDPR. 
Indeed, even if the requirements establish a time limit for the accreditation of the MB, this is to be 
considered without prejudice of the exercise, at any time, of the SA’s supervisory powers with regard 
to the obligations of the MB.  Therefore, for the sake of clarity, the Board encourages the FR SA to 
clarify that the requirements may be reviewed periodically and to provide transparent information on 
what happens after the expiry of the validity of the accreditation and what the procedure will be. 

The Board notes that, in requirement 1.4,  the example given as a “supporting element” refers to a 
“model of service agreement used between monitoring body and the member of the code of conduct” 
and to a “template of non-disclosure agreement”. The Board highlights that the binding nature of the 
rules of the code of conduct, including those providing for the monitoring mechanism, would result 
from  the  adhesion  of  the  code  members  to  the  code  as  well  as  from  their  membership  of  the 
representative association. Whereas contractual arrangements are not, per se, excluded, the Board is 
of the opinion that the essential elements of the monitoring body’s function should be included in the 
code itself. Additional clauses may be added in the form of an agreement or contract between the 
monitoring  body  and  the  code  member,  as  long  as  they  do  not  entail  a  variation  in  the  essential 
elements of the monitoring body’s function, as set out in the code. Therefore, the Board recommends 
the FR SA to specify that the core elements of the monitoring body’s function will be included in the 
code of conduct.  

15.  Moreover,  the  Board  observes  that,  according  to  requirement  1.4,  the  documents  relating  to  the 
performance of the MB’s duties are destroyed “if they are no longer of use after the audit”. This could 
be misleading, since there might be a need to keep such documents for different reasons after they 
are no longer of use, such as to meet legal obligations. Therefore, the Board encourages the FR SA to 
amend  the  requirement  in  order  to  take  into  account  other  possible  legal  obligations  or  other 
legitimate reasons requiring to keep the documents after they are no longer of use. 

16. 

The  Board  notes  that  requirement  1.5  establishes  that  the  monitoring  body  “shall  ensure  when 
carrying out its missions, that complies with the security measures the code member provides”. The 
Boards considers that the reference to “security measures” needs further detail, especially with regard 
to its relation to data protection. Moreover, the Board highlights that the security measures cannot 
prevent  or  restrict  the  monitoring  body  from  carrying  out  its  duties  fully.  Therefore,  the  Board 
encourages the FR SA to clarify the concept of “security measures” in relation to data protection, and 
to specify that the security measures in place cannot prevent the monitoring body from carrying out 
its duties.   

Adopted 

6 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

17.  With regard to the independence of the monitoring body, requirement 1.3 provides that (underline 
added)  “the  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate  that  all  appropriate  human,  financial  and  material 
resources in proportion with the code of conduct’s scope are used”. In accordance with the Guidelines, 
the resources of the monitoring body should be proportionate “to the expected number and size of 
code members, as well as the complexity or degree of risk of the relevant data processing” (paragraph 
73,  page  24  of  the  Guidelines).  Thus,  the  Board  encourages  the  FR  SA  to  align  the  text  of  the 
requirement 1.3 to the Guidelines by adding the above-mentioned reference.  

18.  As for the financial independence of the monitoring body (requirement 2.2), the Board considers that 
the  requirement  would  benefit  from  the  addition  of  more  details,  in  order  to  make  clear  that  the 
means  by  which  the  monitoring  body  obtains  financial  support  should  not  adversely  affects  its 
independence, and that it should have the financial stability and resources necessary for the effective 
performance  of  its  tasks.  For  instance,  the  monitoring  body  would  not  be  considered  financially 
independent  if  the  rules  governing  its  financial  support  allow  a  code  member,  who  is  under 
investigation  by  the  monitoring  body,  to  stop  its  financial  contributions  to  it,  in  order  to  avoid  a 
potential sanction from the monitoring body. The Board encourages the FR SA to define in the draft 
accreditation requirements what constitutes financial independence, and to provide some examples.  

19.  Moreover, the Board notes that the requirement does not differentiate between internal and external 
monitoring bodies. Where the monitoring body is part of the code owner organisation, particular focus 
must be made on their ability to act independently. The Board encourages the FR SA to make such a 
distinction and to add examples that demonstrate how independence can be achieved in both cases.  

20. 

21. 

Finally, the Board notices that the FR SA refers to functional independence, without further specifying 
how it can be demonstrated. Thus, the Board encourages the FR SA to define the content of functional 
independence  and  to  explain  how  the  monitoring  body  can  demonstrate  its  independence  when 
performing its duties.  

The  Board  observes  that  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  do  not  contain  any  reference  to  the 
organisational independence of the monitoring body. The Board notes that monitoring bodies should 
have  the  human  and  technical  resources  necessary  for  the  effective  performance  of  their  tasks. 
Monitoring bodies should be composed of an adequate number of personnel so that they are able to 
fully carry out the monitoring functions, reflecting the sector concerned and the risks of the processing 
activities addressed by the code of conduct. Personnel of the monitoring body shall be responsible and 
shall  retain  authority  for  their  decisions  regarding  the  monitoring  activities.  These  organisational 
aspects could be demonstrated through the procedure to appoint the monitoring body personnel, the 
remuneration of the said personnel, as well as the duration of the personnel’s mandate, contract or 
other formal agreement with the monitoring body. Moreover, the draft requirements should clearly 
state that the monitoring body shall be independent in performing its tasks and exercising its powers 
(paragraph 67, page 22 of the Guidelines).  Therefore, the Board recommends the FR SA to provide 
suitable requirements for the organisational aspects of the independence of the monitoring body and 
add  the  above-mentioned  references  regarding  the  independence  of  the  monitoring  body  in 
performing its tasks and exercising its powers, in accordance with the Guidelines 

22. 

Furthermore,  the  Board  notes  that  the  monitoring  body  should  be  able  to  demonstrate 
“accountability” for its decisions and actions in order to be considered to be independent. This could 

Adopted 

7 

be accomplished through such things as setting out the roles and decision-making framework and its 
reporting  procedures,  and  by  setting  up  policies  to  increase  awareness  among  the  staff  about  the 
governance structures and the procedures in place. Therefore, the Board recommends the FR SA to 
include requirements that suitably address the accountability of the monitoring body.  

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

23. 

24. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  requirements  regarding  conflict  of  interest  (section  3  of  the  draft 
accreditation  requirements),  do  not  include  all  the  elements  of  the  Guidelines.  Specifically,  the 
monitoring body shall remain free from any external influence and, therefore, it shall not seek nor take 
instructions from any person organisation or association. Moreover, the monitoring body should have 
its own staff (paragraph 68, page 23 of the Guidelines). The EDPB recommends the FR SA to include 
the above-mentioned elements, thus aligning the text with the Guidelines.  

The  Board  observes  that  there  is  no  reference  to  internal  monitoring  bodies,  which  should  be 
appropriately protected from any sort of sanctions or interference by the code owner, other relevant 
bodies, or members of the code, as a consequence of the fulfilment of its tasks (paragraph 68, page 23 
of  the  Guidelines).  The  Board  encourages  the  FR  SA  to  provide  examples  that  include  internal 
monitoring bodies.  

25.  Requirement 3.2 of the FR SA accreditation requirements establishes that the monitoring body shall 
“provide a procedure to anticipate and deal with any situation likely to create a conflict of interest.” 
The  Board  considers  that  the  measures  and  procedures  in  place  aiming  at  preventing  conflicts  of 
interest should ensure that the monitoring body shall  refrain from any action incompatible with its 
tasks  and  duties.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  FR  SA  includes  in  the  accreditation 
requirements that the procedures and measures in place to avoid conflict of interest ensure that the 
monitoring body shall refrain from any action incompatible with its tasks and duties.  

  EXPERTISE 

26. 

The Board observes that the FR SA’s expertise requirements in section 4 refer only to “auditors” and 
the “audit team” of the monitoring body, without further clarifying the concept. As stated above, the 
reference to only the auditing activities of the monitoring body does not cover the broader spectrum 
of the activities it can carry out. Moreover, the FR SA’s expertise requirements do not differentiate 
between staff at the management level and, therefore, in charge of the decision-making process, and 
staff at the operating level, conducting the monitoring activities. The Board recommends that the FR 
SA  replaces  the  reference  to  “auditors”  for  a  more  suitable  one,  such  as  “staff  carrying  out  the 
monitoring activities or making decisions on behalf of the monitoring body”.  

27. 

Turning to the level of expertise required,  the Board considers that the accreditation requirements 
need to be transparent and  to provide for monitoring bodies seeking accreditation in relation to codes 
that cover micro, small and medium-sized enterprises’ processing activities (article 40 (1) GDPR). 

28.  As required by the Guidelines, every code must fulfil the monitoring mechanism criteria (in section 6.4 
of  the  Guidelines),  by  demonstrating  ‘why  their  proposals  for  monitoring  are  appropriate  and 
operationally  feasible’  (paragraph  41,  page  17  of  the  Guidelines).  In  this  context,  all  codes  with 
monitoring  bodies  will  need  to  explain  the  necessary  expertise  level  for  their  monitoring  bodies  in 
order  to  deliver  the  code’s  monitoring  activities  effectively.  To  that  end,  in  order  to  evaluate  the 
expertise  level  required  by  the  monitoring  body,  it  should,  in  general,  be  taken  into  account  such 
factors  as:  the  size  of  the  sector  concerned,  the  different  interests  involved  and  the  risks  of  the 

Adopted 

8 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

processing  activities  addressed  by  the  code.  This  would  also  be  important  if  there  are  several 
monitoring bodies, as the code will help ensure a uniform application of the expertise requirements 
for all monitoring bodies covering the same code. 

In this regard, the Board considers that requirement 4.1.4 of the FR SA’s accreditation requirements 
should include all the elements  of the Guidelines, and in particular, the expertise in relation to the 
specific processing activities that are the subject matter of the code, and an in-depth understanding of 
data protection issues, in relation to the specific sector of the code. The Board recommends the FR SA 
to add the above-mentioned references, in line with the Guidelines. Moreover, the Board notes that 
the example provided as a supporting element refers only to “skills”. The Board encourages the FR SA 
to redraft the example and refer to “knowledge and experience”, instead of “skills”. 

The  Board  notes  that  requirement  4.1.5  refers  to  a  “specific  training  on  data  protection”,  without 
providing further details. The Board is of the opinion that such a reference does not provide enough 
clarity about the expected knowledge in data protection that the monitoring body shall demonstrate. 
Thus, the Board encourages the FR SA to complete the reference to the data protection training with 
a reference to an adequate knowledge of data protection law, in line with the Guidelines.  

Furthermore,  the  Board  considers  that  the  reference,  in  requirement  4.2.2,  to  the  two  years  of 
professional experience for the legal personnel may curtail the freedom of the code owner to define 
the  specific  expertise  requirements  in  the  code  of  conduct  (see  paragraph  29  above).  The  Board 
encourages the FR SA to include a more general reference that takes into account the different types 
of codes, such as "a relevant level of experience in the field of data protection in accordance with the 
code itself".  Moreover, the Board encourages the FR SA to take into account the additional expertise 
requirements  that  can  be  defined  by  the  code,  by  including  that  reference  in  the  text  of  the 
requirements, and to ensure that the expertise of each monitoring body is assessed in line with the 
particular code. Whereby the SA will verify if the monitoring body possess adequate competencies for 
the specific duties and responsibilities to undertake the effective monitoring of the code.  

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

The Board notes that on requirement 5.4 (section on “requirements relating to the audit process”), 
the audit procedure plans refer to the assessment for eligibility of controllers and processors to apply 
the  code  and  to  monitor  compliance  after  adhesion.  It  also  states  that  the  procedure  takes  every 
change to the conduct of conduct into account. However, there is no reference to the review of the 
code’s operation. The Board highlights that the accreditation requirements should specifically contain 
the obligation of the monitoring body to have governance structures to carry out reviews of the code’s 
operation (paragraph 70, page 23 of the Guidelines). The Board recommends the FR SA include the 
reference to the review of the code’s operation, in line with the Guidelines.  

33.  Requirement 5.5 of the FR SA’s accreditation requirements establishes that the criteria to carry out 
the  audit  program  include  “the  number  of  code  of  conduct  members  to  be  monitored  and  the 
geographical scope”.  The Board considers that a more comprehensive wording would also include the 
risk associated with the data processing and the received complaints. The Board encourages the FR SA 
to add the above-mentioned references.  

34. 

The Board notes that requirement 5.6 of the FR SA’s accreditation requirements states that “The audit 
procedure ensures that each mission is prepared and framed by instructions [...]”. The Board considers 
that the current wording may lead to confusion as to whether the monitoring body will conduct the 

Adopted 

9 

audit in an independent manner. Moreover, the reference to the “audit mission” in the supporting 
elements could be misleading, since the monitoring procedure can be shaped in different ways (i.e. 
random or unannounced audits, annual inspections, regular reporting and the use of questionnaires). 
Therefore, the Board encourages the FR SA to redraft the requirement, to make clear that the audit 
will be carried out in an independent manner and in different ways. 

35. 

The  Board  welcomes  the  obligation  to  provide  feedback  to  the  audited  code  member,  included  in 
requirements 5.7 and 5.9. However, the Board considers too restrictive to include as a requirement 
the  manner  in  which  the  feedback  shall  be  given.  The  Board  encourages  the  FR  SA  to  redraft  the 
requirement and include the manner in which the feedback shall be given as an example. Moreover, 
the difference between requirement 5.7 and requirement 5.9 is not clear. The Board encourages the 
FR SA to clarify the difference between the two requirements.  

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

36.  Regarding  the  complaints  about  code  members  (requirement  6.3  of  the  FR  SA  accreditation 
requirements), the Board acknowledges that complaints handling process requirements should be set 
at  a  high  level  and  reference  reasonable  time  frames  for  answering  complaints.  In  this  regard,  the 
Board  notes  that  the  FR  SA  accreditation  requirements  state,  in  the  supporting  elements,  that  the 
reasonable timeframe to process complaints should not exceed three months. The Board considers 
this time limit too restrictive and difficult to comply with in practice. Thus, the Board recommends the 
FR SA to take a more flexible approach, by stating that the monitoring body will have to provide the 
complainant  with  progress  reports  or  the  outcome  within  a  reasonable  timeframe,  such  as  three 
months. 

37. 

38. 

The  Board  notes  that  requirement  6.2  of  the  FR  SA  accreditation  requirements  states  that  the 
complaint handling procedure will be accessible and easily understood by all data subjects and the 
public. The Board acknowledges that this wording is based on the Guidelines. Nonetheless, the Board 
is of the opinion that, for the sake of clarity, the requirements should specify the meaning of “public” 
and whether it also  includes code members. Therefore, the Board encourages the FR SA to amend 
requirement 6.2 accordingly.  

The Board notes that requirement 6.4 of the FR SA accreditation requirements contains the duty of 
the monitoring body to keep the record of the processing of all complains received readily available to 
the SA, who may access it at any time. Whereas the Board acknowledges the intention of the FR SA to 
comply  with  the  transparency  principle  regarding  the  complaints  handling  procedure,  the  Board 
considers that the FR SA accreditation requirements should contain the obligation of the monitoring 
body  to  make  the  decisions,  or  general  information  thereof,  publicly  available,  as  provided  in  the 
Guidelines (paragraph 74, page 24). Therefore, the Board recommends the FR SA to align the text of 
the accreditation requirements with the Guidelines, in order to ensure that the decisions, or general 
information  thereof,  are  publicly  available.  In  addition,  where  the  FR  SA  decides  to  ensure  the 
transparency of the complaints handling procedure by requiring that the monitoring body publishes 
summary information about the decisions taken in this context, the Board recommends that the FR SA 
specifies  the  kind  of  information  the  monitoring  body  is  obliged  to  publish.  For  example,  the 
monitoring body could publish, on a regular basis, statistical data with the result of the monitoring 
activities, such as the number of complaints received, the type of infringements and the corrective 
measures issued. 

Adopted 

10 

  COMMUNICATING WITH THE FR SA 

39.  With  regard  to  the  communication  with  the  FR  SA  about  measures  taken  by  the  monitoring  body, 
requirement 7.3 of the  FR SA accreditation requirements  establishes that the monitoring body  will 
inform the FR SA “without undue delay and in writing, as soon as a binding measure is taken against 
one of code of conduct member”. The Board considers that the monitoring body shall communicate 
periodically  with  the  SA,  and  that  the  frequency  of  the  communication  would  depend  on  several 
criteria, including the seriousness of the infringement and the measures taken. However, the Board is 
of the opinion that the communication to the SA “without undue delay” should be limited to those 
cases in which the measure taken is very serious, for example, the suspension or exclusion of a code 
member (as specified in requirements 7.4 and 7.5 of the FR SA accreditation requirements). Otherwise, 
it could be very burdensome for the monitoring body and for the competent SA. Therefore, the Board 
recommends the FR SA to delete the reference to “without undue delay” and adopt a more flexible 
approach, which allows for periodic communication with the SA, based on several criteria, including 
the seriousness of the infringement and the measure adopted and to modify accordingly the example 
in the “supporting elements” cell.  

40. 

41. 

42. 

The Board notes that section 9.1 establishes that the monitoring body will ensure that the summaries 
of all audits carried out are at the disposal of the FR SA. The reference to the audits does not cover all 
the range of activities carried out by the monitoring body and the actions taken. Whereas the Board 
acknowledges that the reference to the “audit” might be due to the translation of the term, the Board 
recommends the FR SA to amend the wording in order to make clear that the monitoring body will 
have, at the disposal of the FR SA, the summaries of all actions taken.    

  CODE REVIEW MECHANISMS 

The  Board  observes  that  the  FR  SA’s  accreditation  requirements  do  not  contain  all  the  necessary 
elements  to  ensure  that  the  code  remains  relevant  and  continues  to  contribute  to  the  proper 
application of the GDPR. The Board notes that it is the role of the code owner to ensure the continued 
relevance and compliance of the code of conduct with applicable legislation.  Whilst the monitoring 
body is not responsible to carry out that task, it shall contribute to any review of the code. As a result, 
the  Board  recommends  the  FR  SA  to  provide  accreditation  requirements  that  make  clear  that  the 
monitoring body will contribute to any review of the code. 

  LEGAL STATUS 

The  code  of  conduct  itself  will  need  to  demonstrate  that  the  operation  of  the  code’s  monitoring 
mechanism is sustainable over time, covering worst-case scenarios, such as the monitoring body being 
unable  to  perform  the  monitoring  function.    In  this  regard,  it  would  be  advisable  to  require  that  a 
monitoring body demonstrates that it can deliver the code of conduct’s monitoring mechanism over a 
suitable period of time. The financial, human and material resources to ensure the continuity of the 
monitoring body should be accompanied with the necessary procedures to ensure the functioning of 
the monitoring mechanism over a suitable time. Therefore, the Board recommends FR SA to explicitly 
require that monitoring bodies shall demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over time. The 
Board  also  encourages  the  FR  SA  to  include  in  the  accreditation  requirements  that,  in  order  to 
demonstrate the continuity of the monitoring function, the monitoring body should demonstrate that 
it has sufficient financial and other resources, and the necessary procedures.  

43. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  FR  SA’s  accreditation  requirements  allow  for  the  use  of  subcontractors 
(Section 8 of the FR SA’s accreditation requirements).  However, the requirements do not expressly 

Adopted 

11 

state that outsourcing does not lead to a delegation of responsibility for the monitoring body, and that 
the monitoring body remains responsible to the SA for monitoring in all cases. The Board recommends 
that the FR SA indicates that the monitoring body remains responsible to the SA for monitoring in all 
cases. 

44. 

The Board considers that the explanatory for Section 8 is too general and does not provide additional 
information that would be helpful to have a better understanding of Section 8. Moreover, it assumes 
that subcontractors will always be processors, whereas that is not the case in all situations. Therefore, 
the Board encourages the FR SA to add more details to the explanatory note in accordance with the 
different sections and to modify the wording regarding the role of the subcontractors, in order to avoid 
misunderstandings.   

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

45. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the France Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

46.  As general remarks, the Board recommends that the FR SA: 

1.  follows the structure set out in section 12 of the Guidelines. 

2.  changes  the  references  to  “audit”  and  related  terms,  in  order  to  reflect  the  broader 

spectrum of activities that can be performed by the monitoring body. 

3.  with regard to the contract referred to in requirement 1.4, specifies that the core elements 

of the monitoring body’s function will be included in the code of conduct. 

47.  Regarding ‘independence’ the Board recommends that the FR SA:  

1.  provides suitable requirements for the organisational aspects of the independence of the 
monitoring body and add the above-mentioned references regarding the independence of 
the monitoring body in performing its tasks and exercising its powers, in accordance with 
the Guidelines. 

2. 

includes a reference to the accountability of the monitoring body.  

48.  Regarding ‘conflict of interest’ the Board recommends that the FR SA:  

1.  aligns the text with the Guidelines, by including the obligation of the monitoring body to 
remain free from any external influence and to not seek nor take instructions from any 
person organisation or association, and that the monitoring body should have its own staff. 

2. 

includes in the accreditation requirements that the procedures and measures in place to 
avoid conflict of interest ensure that the monitoring body shall  refrain  from any action 
incompatible with its tasks and duties. 

49.  Regarding ‘expertise’ the Board recommends that the FR SA:  

1.  replaces the reference to “auditors” for a more suitable one, such as “personnel carrying 

out the monitoring activities or making decisions on behalf of the monitoring body”. 

Adopted 

12 

2.  aligns  the  text  with  the  Guidelines,  by  adding,  in  requirement  4.1.4,  the  expertise  in 
relation to the specific processing activities that are the subject matter of the code, and 
an in-depth understanding of data protection issues, in relation to the specific sector of 
the code. 

50.  Regarding ‘established procedures and structures’ the Board recommends that the FR SA:  

1. 

includes the reference to the review of the code’s operation, in line with the Guidelines. 

51.  Regarding ‘transparent complaint handling’ the Board recommends that the FR SA:  

1.  takes a more flexible approach, by stating that the monitoring body will have to provide 
the  complainant  with  progress  reports  or  the  outcome  within  a  reasonable  timeframe, 
such as three months. 

2.  aligns the text of the accreditation requirements with the Guidelines, in order to ensure 

that the decisions, or general information thereof, are publicly available. 

3.  specifies the kind of information the monitoring body is obliged to publish in case the FR 
SA decides to ensure the transparency of the complaints handling procedure by requiring 
that the monitoring body publishes summary information about the decisions taken in this 
context. 

52.  Regarding ‘communicating with the FR SA’ the Board recommends that the FR SA: 

1.  deletes  the  reference  to  “without  undue  delay”  and  adopts  a  more  flexible  approach, 
which allows for periodic communication with the SA, based on several criteria, including 
the seriousness of the infringement and the measure adopted and modifies accordingly 
the example in the “supporting elements” cell. 

2.  amends the requirement in order to include a  summary of all the actions taken by the 

monitoring body, which should be at the disposal of the FR SA. 

53.  Regarding ‘code review mechanisms’ the Board recommends that the FR SA: 

1.  provides  accreditation  requirements  that  make  clear  that  the  monitoring  body  will 

contribute to any review of the code. 

54.  Regarding ‘legal status’ the Board recommends that the FR SA: 

1.  explicitly requires that monitoring bodies shall demonstrate continuity of the monitoring 

function over time. 

2. 

indicates  that  the  monitoring  body  remains  responsible  to  the  SA  for  monitoring  in  all 
cases. 

  FINAL REMARKS 

3. 

4. 

This  opinion  is  addressed  to  the  France  supervisory  authority  and  will  be  made  public  pursuant  to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the supervisory authority shall communicate to the Chair by 
electronic means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its 

Adopted 

13 

draft decision. Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does 
not intend to follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does 
not intend to follow this opinion, in whole or in part. The supervisory authority shall communicate the 
final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions which have been subject to the 
consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

14 

