1/5

 File No.: EXP202200967

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 01/11/2022, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
R.R.R., (hereinafter, the complaining party), through which it makes a claim against
A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party), for the installation of a
video surveillance system located at ***ADDRESS.1, with indications of a
possible breach of the provisions of the data protection regulations of
personal character.

The reasons underlying the claim are as follows:

“Through this, we communicate that by D. A.A.A., whose home is located
in ***ADDRESS.1, recording cameras have been placed in the windows
of your home and facing the facade of the building, also at the access door
to the community patio. After informing him that he has to remove the cameras, he tells us that
they only record his sales and that he will not withdraw it, since he carries out a private activity
and personal (…)"

Attach two photographs of the location of the cameras.

SECOND: On 01/27/2022, the respondent was sent a Request for
information so that it could proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within the
of a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
in data protection regulations; being notified on 02/08/2022, according to the
Notice issued by Post. To date, no reply has been received.

THIRD: On 03/25/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 05/12/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 05/23/2022, the defendant is notified of the agreement to open the
present sanctioning procedure and that same day a letter of allegations is received
in which it states the following:

“[…]
The alleged recording cameras have never been such, in fact, they were a
time as a video intercom, exclusively, and the sole purpose of have and have

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

had is the dissuasive, for having received on no less than three occasions threats
of several of my neighbors (…). And being on notice in that aspect, I put, by way of
deterrent something like a video surveillance system, not trusting them.
 
When they contacted me from the agency of the "COMMONWEALTH"
I mistrusted the real reason why they wanted to know what I had posted,
therefore I did not tell them that they were fake cameras that did not record (...).”

Attach a signed Declaration of Responsibility, dated 02/08/2022, in which it states,
in short, that “those cameras don't even work anymore”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Existence of two video surveillance cameras outside the
windows of the respondent's home, located at ***ADDRESS.1, which would capture
images of the public road and the access door to the community patio.

The complaining party attaches photographs that prove the presence of both
devices.

SECOND: It is identified as the main responsible A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1.

THIRD: The defendant wields security reasons for the installation of the
cameras, which are real, not fictitious, although it states that at present they do not
they work, but he did not remove them because he has received threats against his properties.

Provides responsible Declaration with signature of 02/08/2022.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

II

In the present case, it is appropriate to examine the claim dated 01/11/2022 through
from which the placement of two cameras of
video surveillance on the exterior windows of the defendant's home, located in
***ADDRESS.1, which would focus on the public road and the access door to the patio
community.

The physical image of a person under article 4.1 of the RGPD is personal data
and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. Article 4.2 of the GDPR
defines the concept of “treatment” of personal data.

Article 5.1 c) of the RGPD provides that personal data will be “adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed (“data minimization”).

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with
all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

Article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD provides that:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood fulfilled by placing an informative device instead
sufficiently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information."

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

Nor can images of public spaces be obtained with this type of device,
as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards a private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, which are seen
intimidated by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install sections for obtaining images
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

This infringement is typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a provision that establishes:
“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

(…)”

III

On 05/23/2022, a written statement was received from the respondent stating that
the installed system, although it is real, was used as a video intercom a while ago and that
now it is not working, remaining as a mere deterrent function for
security reasons.

Article 28.7 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (LPACAP, hereinafter) provides: "The
Interested parties will be responsible for the veracity of the documents they submit.

It should be noted that individuals can install cameras on their private property
false, although they must be oriented exclusively towards your property,
avoiding intimidating third parties with said devices.

In the installation of this type of “simulated” devices, caution must be taken.
necessary to avoid intimidating third parties who are unaware of the character
"fictitious" of these, who can believe they see themselves recorded by them, in such a way that they
should avoid its orientation towards public space.

IV

Based on the foregoing, it is considered that the cameras are simulated,
that is, they do not obtain any image of an identified or identifiable natural person,
Therefore, since there is no processing of personal data, it cannot be discussed
of administrative infraction in the matter that occupies us.

Therefore, according to the above,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of the administrative infraction object of claim.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimant and claimed party.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

