Process PAR/2ü20/16 | 1

+*

OPINION/2020/40

l. Request
The Bamco de Fortugal sponsor; to the [National Data Protection Commission (Cí\FD) that
to pronounce on the ilnrstruction project that aims to regulate the duties of
report to the competent supervisory authority qLre irnpendern on the entities
covered by the Airiso do Banco de Porte-rgail, regarding the conduct and culture
organizational and governance and internal control systems.

The formulated request and the present opinion fall within the attributions and competences
of Cí\FD, as a national authority to control the processing of personal data,
in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph C of paragraph tr of article 57 and paragraph 4 of article 36.' of
Regulation {[-,8] 2CI16/679 of the European Far[nment and of the Council, of 27 April
2CI16 {Geratr Regulation on Data Protection - RGPD), enr conjugation with c
provided for in Article 3"o, r'ro n," 2 of Article 4." and in subparagraph aJ of paragraph 3. of Article 6.', all of
Law n-o 5E/2üL9, of August 1st (which aims to ensure the execution, in the order
internal legal system, of the RGFD),
The appneciation of the CNPD is limited to norms that foresee or regulate treatments of
personal data-

ll. appreciation

The Price Instruction Project aims to regulate the sending of self-assessment reports from the
adequacy and effectiveness of the corporate culture and governance and control systems
internal, and respective annexes" to the competent supervisory authority; the content and
sending the report provided for in paragraph 7 article 116."-ÂA of the General Regime of Institutions of
Credlto e Sociedades Financeiras {RGIC§F}, approved by Decree-l-ei n," 2§8192, of 33.
January, last amended by Decneto-Law n." 3.44/201-9, of September 23, to
competent supervisory authority; and employee identification reporting
that have a material impact on the institution's risk profile.
The Pro.ieto also sets out the risk categories for the purposes of identification, assessment
monitoring and control of the risks to which they are or may be exposed and includes
the file that should be used by the aforementioned entities to carry out the
response of the deficiencies identified in the area of culture and organizational conduct and
of governance and internal control systems.

Process PAR/202ü116 [Xv"

\\'*-

The content of the aforementioned reports, to be communicated to the supervisory authority
competent- do not include, for the most part, personal data.
the communication of personal data, they do not take on any special
sensitivity, finding the treatment based on lawfulness in subparagraph d, as well as
in paragraph f,j" of paragraph L of article 6 of the GDPR.
On sale, article 2 concerning the annual self-assessment report only provides for the envlo
of personal identification data of those responsible for the internal control functions,
with the indication of the respective contact details {telephone and e-mail address},
and Article 4(4i) of the draft regarding the annual report[of
group self-assessment provides for the report to be sent to the supervisory authority
competent accompanied by the identification of those responsible for the control functions
The parent company intends to identify the respective telephone contacts
(telephone and email address).
For firn, regarding the presentation of the annual report! provided for in number 7"o of article
1"16""-AA of the RGICSF1 the subitem ii of subitem ol of article 8" of the Tnstrução Project
provides that the report contains the summary description of the reported facts and the related
enqt"ladrarnento.!unidico. ,A, here it may occur a processing of personal data foreseen
in the article LÜ.o of the RGPD, where it is required that the ffresrno be authorized by provisions of the
law of the Union or of a Member State, which provide adequate guarantees for the
rights and freedoms of data subjects"
Üra, article 1L6."-AA of the RGXCSF imposes on credit institutions the duty to
, to provide specific, independent means and adequate reception methods,
treatment and archiving of claims of serious inequalities related to their
administration, accounting organization and internal inspection and serious evidence of
violations of duties provided for in the present Regime Çeral oil {to Rules $}E} n.'
575/2Ü13, of the European Parliament and Council, of June 6th.» It adds that these
rneios guarantee the confidentiality of the participations received and the protection of the data
personal details of the complainant and the person suspected of committing the offence, under the terms of Law n""
67/98, of October 26, WHY was it revoked in the meantime by Law No. 58/201"9, of I
of August, should be read, in the terms of the RGFD

I «Credit institutions must submit to Elanco de Portugat an annual report with the description of the
means referred to in paragraph I and qoln the summary indication of the interests received and the respective process.»

Process PAR/2A20/1.6 | two

I§ the extent to which the aforementioned data processing is based on article 11-6-o-AA, n.' l- and no
7, of the RGICSF, and which safeguards, when it concerns data of greater sensitivity, the
confidentiality of the information, it seems to respect the regime of protection of
personal data.

Ill. Conclusion

With the above grounds, it is the understanding of the CNPD that the Project under analysis
does not give rise to reservations or observations as to its compliance with the legal regime
of data protection"

Lisbon, March 30, 2020

Maria Cândida Guedes de Oliveira (Rapporteur)

