1/9

Procedure No.: PS/00149/2019
938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00149/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity XFERA MÓVILES S.A., with NIF A82528548, (in
hereinafter, “the claimed entity”), having regard to the complaint filed by Ms. A.A.A., (in
hereinafter, "the claimant"), and based on the following,
BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 06/14/18, the claim was received by this Agency
filed by the claimant, in which she stated, among others, that: “I am a client of the
Mas Móvil company since 04/07/18 for fixed line, two mobile lines and fiber optic
at my home in Puebla del Río (Seville). last May 23 I receive an email
with a contract and SMS with fiber installation date, where I am informed of the
new hiring in a Valladolid address of fixed line, mobile and fiber optic. I
I put in contact with said company that after informing him what happened I cancel the
hiring. A few days later, on May 29, they send me again a
email with the contract and SMS of information for the installation of the fiber, where
He informed me again about contracting the same services at the same address
from Valladolid. Contact again with the company and manage the cancellation of the contract.
I demand that they answer me in writing what has happened and why it is due to two
Sometimes they send me a contract that I have not made. In the contracts, they come
my personal data: name and surname, date of birth, ID, phone number
contact and email. But they do not correspond to my data: the installation address of the
fiber, landline and mobile phone that are carried and bank account number for
domiciliation of receipts”. The following documentation is provided, among others:

a) Copy of the Contract made on 05/23/18, of the mobile line ***TELÉFONO.1 and
the general conditions of the same without signing in the "client signature" area.

b) Copy of the Contract made on 05/29/18, of the mobile line ***TELÉFONO.2 and
the general conditions of the same without signing in the "client signature" area.

c) Copy of the complaint filed with the Civil Guard on 05/25/18, where

indicate the facts stated above.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter, RGPD).
Thus, on 07/26/18, an information request was addressed to the entity XFERA. The
Support Service for Electronic Notifications and Enabled Electronic Address
certifies that said requirement was notified on 08/01/18.

THIRD: Dated 12/13/18, not having received any type of information or
documentation by the claimed entity, this Agency reiterates the
request to the entity. The Electronic Notifications Support service and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

Authorized Electronic Address certifies that said requirement was notified on
12/23/18.
FOURTH: On 04/01/19, since this Agency did not record any response to
the two claims for information made to the entity, it is appropriate to admit
process this claim.
FIFTH: On 04/10/19, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the claimed entity, by virtue of
the powers established in article 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles 47, 64.2 and
68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for the infringement of the
articles 5 and 6) of the RGPD typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and considered very
serious, for prescription purposes, in 72.1.a and b) of the LOPDGDD, setting a
initial penalty of 60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros). All this arguing that:
“It has been verified that the claimant is a client of the Mas Móvil company since
04/07/18 of various services, with address at ***ADDRESS.1. Last 05/23/18,
received an email with a contract and an SMS, indicating the date of installation
of new landline and mobile telephony services, but at an address in Valladolid. Put
in contact with the company, the hiring is cancelled, but a few days later, the
05/29/18, Mas Móvil sent a new email and an SMS of information, from the
contracting the same services and at the same address in Valladolid. put in
contact once again with the company to cancel the contract again
requests the new supposedly fraudulent contracts. In the indicated contracts
The personal data, contact telephone number and email come, but they do not correspond, the
installation address, telephone number and bank account number for
domiciliation of receipts”.

SIXTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the entity claimed, by means of a letter of
dated 05/09/19, made, in summary, the following allegations:

“Inform the Spanish Data Protection Agency that,
for the aforementioned facts, there is an open criminal court case, which is
communicates to the opportune effects so that the suspension of the or
of the files in progress while the criminal case is resolved.

The simple account of the facts that suppose the reason for this procedure
endorse the participation of third parties, that is, outside the company and its
customers in good faith, with malicious intent and intent to take advantage
improperly from the good faith of others. This implies of itself that this
administered must also be considered as a victim and, for this reason,
also, as injured in the open criminal proceeding.”

SEVENTH: On 05/28/19, the test practice period began,
remembering: a).- to consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the complaint filed
by the complainant and her documentation, the documents obtained and generated that
are part of file E/4631/2018 and b).- consider reproduced for purposes
evidence, the allegations to the initiation agreement of PS/00149/2019, presented by
the reported entity.

EIGHTH: On 08/07/19, the sanctioning resolution proposal is notified

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

consisting in that by the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is sanctioned to the entity claimed for infraction of articles 5 and 6) of the
RGPD, typified as very serious, for prescription purposes, in article 72.1.a and b)
of the LOPDGDD, with a fine of 60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros), in accordance
with the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD, substantiating it,
essentially, that: “XFERA MÓVILES, in its allegations, acknowledges the existence
of an unauthorized use of the claimant's personal data, acknowledging
implicitly its responsibility in the infraction committed.

On the other hand, indicate that, if possible cases of
"falsehood or fraud" by using the personal data of the claimant to
commit a crime, it must be noted that no document has been provided that
test the state in which they are, currently the alleged
Preliminary Judicial Proceedings, if they have given rise to the processing of the corresponding
Judicial procedure or if, on the contrary, the dismissal has been agreed. The
entity claimed is only limited to indicating in its pleadings that "there is cause
judicial open” requesting the suspension of the administrative procedure.

Article 31.1 of Law 40/2015, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (RJSP)
which establishes: “Acts that have been criminal or
administratively, in cases where the identity of the subject, fact and
basis". Well, in this case, there is no triple identity, of subject, fact and
foundation, between the administrative infraction that is valued in this file
sanctioning party and the possible criminal infraction that could derive from the Proceedings
Prior practiced by a jurisdictional body (which is not the case, since it has not been
proven that there are prior proceedings). This, because the offending subject is obviously
would not be the same – with respect to breaches of the RGPD, the entity responsible is
claimed, XFERA MÓVILES SA, insofar as the criminally responsible for a possible
crime of usurpation of marital status or fraud would be the third that would have been done
go through the claimant.

Nor would the legal basis be the same: while the legal right protected by
the RGPD is the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, the good
legal that is protected in the criminal types whose commission is investigated would be the state
civil and patrimony, respectively. In this sense, it is very illuminating
Judgment of the National Court of 04/27/12 (rec. 78/2010).

NINTH: Once the proposed resolution has been notified, the entity complained against presents
allegations to the proposed resolution, in the period granted for this purpose,
based essentially on the following:

“Preliminarily, and expressing our opposition to the arguments
collected by the Motion for a Resolution, we reiterate ourselves in the allegations
expressed in our previous document presented before the Start Agreement,
considering them reproduced in their entirety.

- Open criminal case.

This party has communicated the existence of an open criminal court case in order to
that the suspension of the file(s) in progress be agreed upon as long as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

resolve the criminal case because in art. 31.1 of Law 40/2015, on the Regime
Juridical of the Public Sector (RSJP) that establishes: "They will not be able to sanction the
facts that have been penal or administrative, in the cases in which
identity of subject, fact or basis is appreciated”.

It should be clarified that this part has not implicitly recognized in the
allegations presented that he is responsible for the infraction committed, as well as
how to add that these alleged administrative infractions do have
in relation to the criminal offenses committed, both in terms of the commission of the
The former is a consequence of the commission of crimes by third parties.

That this party, therefore, must be considered together with the claimant
victim and harmed in the criminal procedure against third parties outside of
bad faith From the facts it can be deduced that XFERA has carried out a
processing of data in good faith, ignoring the existence of contracting
fraudulent, not being able to commit an administrative infraction without knowing that
was processing data obtained by third parties and with malicious intent.

These facts must be judged only by criminal means, because XFERA
one of the injured parties, finally being the victim of the commission of a
administrative infraction that has not been carried out as a result of a usurpation
of identity.

- Concurrence of the 'non bis in idem' principle.

In reiteration of the aforementioned art. 31.1 of the RSJP, the
administrative procedure concurring a criminal procedure as long as
when the identity of the subject, fact or foundation is appreciated. In this case,
the following occurs:

Identity of subjects: the claimant and the defendant are victims and subjects
harmed by the crimes of fraud and usurpation of marital status, against a
foreign third party. Until the criminal case is resolved, they will not be able to
determine who is the administrative offender.

Identity of facts: the facts that bring cause are simultaneous, they suppose the
illegal processing of data as a necessary consequence for the commission
of the crimes of fraud and usurpation of marital status by a third party. At our
defence, we must add that the motion for a resolution does not mention why
there is no identity of facts, because the identity of the facts is clear.

The protected legal rights are the fundamental right to the protection of
the data, which must be infringed in order to finally commit a crime
against the patrimonial legal asset. While it is true that acting against the
fundamental right to data protection can only be against a
natural person, this offense has been a means for the commission of the ultimate goal
of third parties in bad faith, for the commission of a crime against property
for both natural and legal persons.

- Lastly, the suspension of the administrative procedure is requested, until

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

that the criminal process is resolved or subsidiarily, propose the imposition to
my represented from a sanction for minor infractions in its minimum degree”.

From the documentation and information presented by the parties in this process, it has been
verified that:

PROVEN FACTS

a)

The claimant has been a client of the Mas Móvil company since 04/07/18, for several
services, with address at ***ADDRESS.1.

b) On 05/23/18, you received an email with a contract and an SMS, where the
indicated the date of installation of new fixed and mobile telephony services of
the entity, but at an address in Valladolid.

c) Contact with the Mas Móvil company, the contract is cancelled, but
a few days later, on 05/29/18, Mas Móvil sent a new email again and
an SMS of information, of contracting the same services and in the
same address in Valladolid.

d) Contact once again with the company to re-register the
contracting, the new supposedly fraudulent contracts are requested. In
they come with personal data, contact telephone number and email, but not
applicable, the address of installation, the telephone number and number of
bank account for direct debit receipts.

e) The respondent entity recognizes the participation of third parties (existence of
fraud), with malicious intent and intent to take undue advantage of the
good faith of others, also considering themselves a victim and harmed.

f) The entity claimed alleges that the facts are in legal proceedings

open.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of
Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the Free
Circulation of these Data (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter
RGPD) recognizes each Control Authority and, as established in articles
47, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
resolve this procedure.

The entity complained against has submitted arguments to the proposed resolution
reiterating the same arguments set forth in the allegations presented to the
initiation of the file. However, it is necessary to point out again that:

II

a.- When the entity claimed affirms in the allegations presented on the date
05/09/19, that “due to the aforementioned facts, there is an open criminal court case, which is
communicates to the opportune effects so that the suspension of the or of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

ongoing files while the criminal case is resolved”, he is acknowledging
implicitly the existence of non-consensual treatment of personal data
of the claimant by the entity XFERA MÓVILES.

b.- The processing of personal data without the consent of the affected party is
administratively sanctioned, (art. 5 and 6 of the RGPD). This administrative infraction
It has nothing to do with the alleged fraud reported by the entity in criminal proceedings. Us
we are referring to two clearly differentiated spheres of the legal system.

c.- Although the entity alleges that it has reported the facts in criminal proceedings, it must be
indicate that, neither in the allegations at the initiation of the file, presented on
05/09/19, nor in the allegations to the proposed resolution, presented on 08/23/19,
The entity has presented no evidence. No document has been provided
test the state in which they are, currently the alleged
Preliminary Judicial Proceedings, if they have given rise to the processing of the corresponding
Judicial procedure or if, on the contrary, the dismissal has been agreed. The
entity claimed is only limited to indicating in its pleadings that "there is cause
judicial open” requesting the suspension of the administrative procedure.

d.- Article 31.1 of Law 40/2015, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector
(RJSP) that establishes: “Acts that have been criminal or
administratively, in cases where the identity of the subject, fact and
basis". Well, in this case, there is no triple identity, of subject, fact and
foundation, between the administrative infraction that is valued in this file
sanctioning party and the possible criminal infraction that could derive from the Proceedings
Prior practiced by a jurisdictional body (which is not the case, since it has not been
proven that there are prior proceedings):

- It is obvious that the offending subject would not be the same: regarding the infractions
administrative regulations (RGPD) the person responsible for the infraction is the entity
claimed, XFERA MÓVILES SA and regarding the criminal liability of a
possible crime of usurpation of marital status or fraud would be the third party
would have posed as the claimant.

- The legal basis would be the same.

- The legal asset protected by the RGPD is the fundamental right to
protection of personal data, while the legal asset that is protected in
criminal types would be marital status and assets.

In this sense, the Judgment of the National High Court of
04/27/12 (rec. 78/2010).

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
knowledge of the AEPD a vision of the performance of the claimed entity, which has
reflected in the facts declared proven.

III

The entity XFERA MÓVILES S.A., is the legal entity responsible for said
facts. Circumscribed liability, for reasons of competence related to the
article 5.1.a) of the RGPD, which establishes that: "personal data will be treated in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party”. In addition to violating
also article 6.1.a) of the aforementioned RGPD where it is indicated that: "the treatment only
It will be lawful if the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data.
personal for a specific purpose.

For its part, article 72.1.a and b) of the LOPDGDD considers it “very serious” if the
treatment of personal data, "violates the principles and guarantees established in
article 5 of the RGPD” or if it is carried out, “without the concurrence of any of the conditions of
legality established in article 6 of the RGPD”, respectively.

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case.".

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

IV

On the other hand, and after the evidence obtained in the preliminary investigation phase and throughout
throughout the instruction of the procedure, it is appropriate in this case to attend to what is stipulated
in article 83.2 of the RGPD, in order to set the amount of the penalty to be imposed:

As aggravating criteria:

-

-

-

The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation; since once
repaired the possible fraud, on 05/26/18, it was reproduced again a few days
later, on 05/29/18; (section a).

Any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment, as there are precedents of infractions of the same nature by
part of the claimed company (paragraph e).

The way in which the control authority became aware of the infraction; to the
be aware of a claim filed with this Agency (section h).

- Other aggravating factors applicable to the circumstances of the case; Not having
answered the claimed company, to the two requirements made from this
Agency, on 07/26/18 notified to the entity on 08/01/18 and the request
sent on 12/13/19, notified to the entity on 12/23/18, (section k).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of articles 5 and 6,
allows setting a penalty of 60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros), typified as "very

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

serious”, for the purpose of prescription of the same, in 72.1. a and b) of the LOPDGDD.

In view of the aforementioned precepts and others of general application, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity XFERA MÓVILES S.A. a penalty of 60,000
euros (sixty thousand euros), for the infringement of articles 5.1.a) and 6.1.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity XFERA MOVILES S.A.
according to art. 77.2 of the RGPD, and INFORM the claimant about the result of the
claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that the sanction imposed must make it effective
Once this resolution is executed, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, within the voluntary payment period indicated in the
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, by depositing it in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000
0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the
Bank CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will be collected in
executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of section 2 of article 37 of the LOPD, in the
wording given by article 82 of Law 62/2003, of December 30, on measures
fiscal, administrative and social order, this Resolution will be made public, once
Once it has been notified to the interested parties. The publication will be made in accordance with
provided for in Instruction 1/2004, of December 22, of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection on the publication of its Resolutions and in accordance with the
provided in article 116 of the regulations for the development of the LOPD approved by the
Royal Decree 1720/2007, of December 21.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the LOPD),
and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of Law 39/2015, of
1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution, or, directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/],
or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious appeal-
within a period of two months from the day following the notification of the
This resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

