 

28th activity report for the years 2017 and 2018

Press Release – Page 1/5
Munich, May 17, 2019

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection, Prof. Dr. Thomas
Petri, today presented his activity report for the years 2017 and 2018
presented to the public. The report deals, among other things, with the following
upcoming topics:

The main focus of my work in the reporting period was
in connection with the data protection reform 2018 (No. 1 and No. 2
of the activity report). So I have the responsible Bavarian mini-
sterien in the development of numerous draft laws and ordinances
accompanied. This applies in particular to the new Bavarian Data Protection Act
set, which will be in time for the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation
regulation could come into force on May 25, 2018. Beyond that, I could
many state and local authorities in the transition to the new
advice on the protection of tenants.
 
My homepage now offers a wide range of in-
formations ready. This includes detailed guidance
- For example, on the information obligations of the person responsible, on the function
of the official data protection officer or the instrument of data
Tenant protection impact assessment - numerous current brief information,
which also con-
give concrete recommendations for action.

Even if the work related to data protection reform
used considerable human resources in 2018 and also continue to
claim afterwards, the data protection supervisory "All-
day work” further. The number of entries from the citizenship and the
Inquiries from the authorities in connection with the data
protection reform increased significantly in 2018 and remained continuously at a
a high status.

Fortunately, the Bavarian public authorities are taking their
obligations in the case of data protection violations (No. 3.1.6) for the most part

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05/17/2019 – page 2/5
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
very serious, so that numerous messages have reached me. the
Past reports give a good overview of the work processes
 
Bavarian public authorities and the problems that arise there. So
I had to realize that sending sensitive documents electronically
gene is still a big topic. In addition to misaddressing
there is also often a lack of encryption to secure the
content. In many cases, therefore, faxes are sent instead
however, often leads to "typos" when entering numbers, so that
Fax arrives at wrong recipients. Malware reports
in one case also to a complete system failure lasting several days in a
a hospital show how important the subject of basic IT
Security, use of up-to-date software, virus protection and awareness-
tion of employees for all public bodies.

In addition to a critical examination of the police
law (No. 4.1.1), the report also contains comments on storage
in police files (No. 4.4). Among other things
I use two cases to illustrate the effects of the so-called
“collective clause” may have. After this regulation extends a new one
police storage the storage duration of all "old" storages, since
the storage duration for all storages depends on the longest storage
deadline. This can lead, for example, to so-called
"Sins of youth" stored by the police for unnecessarily long periods of time
remain.

I also discuss in detail the changes made in 2018 to the
Bavarian Constitutional Protection Act (No. 5.1). I see it critically
for example, that there is no comprehensive obligation to notify those affected
gives. Without knowledge of a secretly carried out intervention is an effective one
However, legal protection is considerably more difficult or impossible in practice.

Another topic is the transfer forms of the judiciary
prisons (No. 6.4.1), with which relatives give prisoners money
can let come. These were originally designed in such a way that
using the completed transfer form for third parties (e.g
bank employees) it was evident that the named person
son is in a correctional facility. At my instigation

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05/17/2019 – page 3/5
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
the forms have been changed in such a way that no more conclusions can be drawn
the prisoner status of the named person are possible.
 
The - which I always reminded - legal basis for the installation and
Operation of electronic water meters with radio module (No. 7.3) was introduced in
insert the municipal regulations. At the same time, the insofar prompted
Data processing enclosed and strictly limited. This new purpose
contains, on the one hand, the prerequisite that I have also requested for a long time
unlimited right to object to the use of the radio function,
which the fee debtor, the owner and the entitled
user of the supplied object is entitled to. On the other hand sees this standard
directly applicable requirements for the processing of data in a
an electronic water meter. The central data protection
technical principles of necessity (data minimization) and expediency
binding form the relevant benchmarks.

Against the background that in particular new parties leading to an election
line up, to their constituency nomination a certain number of
supporting signatures of citizens entitled to vote may be submitted
Municipality in a table record the names of citizens who already
have supported a constituency proposal (No. 7.8.2). The community
must verify that each backer endorses only one proposal
has. Further information, in particular which party supports
was, but may not be saved.

Due to a complaint, I had disagreed with the admissibility of the video
monitoring of a community service operated by a district office
accommodation for asylum seekers (No. 7.9). The outdoor area
of the accommodation was almost area-wide, the corridors of the four building
le were recorded completely. 23 cameras were used. offered
in view of the high intensity of interventions towards residents, employees,
Volunteers and visitors saw the continued operation of the facility in
not possible in this form. I have therefore asked the district office
at least a reduction in the scope of video surveillance
test. After the district office considered my ongoing concerns about
lich could not eliminate the admissibility of video surveillance

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05/17/2019 – page 4/5
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
finally agreeing to the video surveillance of asylum seekers
to forego advertising accommodation completely.
 
To accompany the current development of digitization in health
security (No. 8.1.3), the Conference of Independent Data Protection
federal and state supervisory authorities set up a sub-working group
set up to deal exclusively with this complex matter
should do. The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Information
due to its nationwide importance, the presidency of the Un-
ter working group. I am in my capacity as Chairman
of the working group on health and social affairs of the data protection conference
continuously involved in their work. The sub-working group has
already advised on numerous topics.
With guidelines, resolutions, recommendations and guidelines
the sub-working group intends to inform politicians, citizens and
administration useful tips for digitization in healthcare
to provide.

During the reporting period, I heard from several youth surveys
(No. 9.5.1) became aware. It is an instrument of the wearer
of public youth welfare, with which desires, needs and interests
young people with regard to the leisure activities, among other things
are to be queried. The result of the survey should then be
mentioned youth welfare plan.

In most cases, the public youth welfare organizations approached
next based on an anonymous survey of children and young people.
In fact, due to the concrete and extensive questions
However, a personal reference can at least be established. That's why had to
data protection regulations are also observed. So must about
Data protection notices provided and when integrating services
tern data protection regulations are observed, which in the framework
of a contract should be laid down.

The subject of several inquiries from municipalities was the access to information
passage through the municipal council: This sought the provision of a
"Best list" of trade tax payers (No. 10.2). information in sol-

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05/17/2019 – page 5/5
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
such lists are subject to tax secrecy and are often also personal
to evaluate customer-related data, for example if you are a sole proprietor
 
relate to a shop. My tax and municipal law
appreciation made it clear that such sensitive information
information without a specific reason
may be.

In online advance ticket sales for public theaters (No. 11.4).
personal data of ticket buyers are stored for as long as
as necessary to complete the transaction. Over and beyond-
ongoing, longer-term storage, in particular of bank details
Application data in a user account are with the consent of the respective
ticket purchaser permitted. As part of my supervisory role, I have a
Theater asked to change its procedure accordingly, as it
has so far not sufficiently observed these requirements.

In order to protect the personal data of municipal employees
ten was an inquiry from a municipality. There the right
committee of the municipal council the submission of the salary
Statements (No. 12.5) of all employees required. My exam
revealed that the committee did not agree on a general, unconditional agreement
has the right of inspection, but must specifically demonstrate in each individual case that
the knowledge of the required data for the fulfillment of his task is required
is. Only then can the public interest in a comprehensive
the audit against the protection of the - strictly shielded
ten – enforce personnel file data.

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

