1/8

Procedure No.: PS/00096/2019
938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
before OVANIE AGENCY, S.L., by virtue of a claim filed by Mr. A.A.A., and
based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 13, 2018 Mr. A.A.A., (hereinafter the
claimant), filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
against the entity OVANIE AGENCY, S.L., (hereinafter, the claimed party) for having
found that the privacy policy of the ***URL.1 website did not inform users
stakeholders on the aspects provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter
GDPR).

The claimant, among other documents, attaches a copy of the current Legal Notice to
dated November 13, 2018 on the website ***URL.1, where it is observed that the
Data Protection Policy shown by the claimed party in section I of the Notice
Legal of said web page,- referring to the personal data collected by said
company "In the contact forms or raters."-, it is not updated to the
RGPD, since instead of containing the information required in article 13 of
This rule refers to the requirements established in Organic Law 15/1999, of
December 13, Protection of Personal Data.

In the outlined section it is reported that the automated data files
are the responsibility of Ovanie Agency, SL, whose current address is
***ADDRESS 1).

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded, on December 3, 2018, to transfer said
claim to the aforementioned company through the Notific@ system for analysis and
communication to the claimant of the decision adopted in this regard, as well as so that in
Within one month, send it to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
certain information to clarify the facts indicated. Is
notification was rejected after ten calendar days from the date of
provision thereof without accessing its content.

Subsequently, an attempt was made to transfer said claim by postal mail
sent, dated December 17, 2018, to the address *** ADDRESS.1 and with
dated January 18, 2019 to the address ***ADDRESS.2, being in both cases
returned shipments by “Unknown” at those addresses.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

 : Consulted, on February 26, 2019, the application of the AEPD
THIRD
 
that shows information about the history of sanctions and warnings
precedents, there are no previous records for violation of article 5 of the Law
Organic 15/1999, of December 13, Protection of Personal Data,
(hereinafter LOPD) or article 13 of the RGPD associated with the entity OVANIE
AGENCY, S.L.

FOURTH: On March 4, 2018, it is verified that in the Mercantile Registry
Central appears as the registered office of the aforementioned company: ***ADDRESS.3

Also, dated March 4, 2018, access to the Legal Notice published in
the website ***URL.1, verifying that the information contained in section I
of the same coincides with the one that appeared in the document presented by the claimant.
Likewise, the existence of several contact forms in said
web page, at the end of which a blank button appears next to the text “I accept the
Privacy Policy”, which refers to the document without updating already reviewed, and another
button with the text "Submit".

One of the forms is to subscribe to the offers newsletter.
Another form is to request information on health insurance
which will be provided by a Sanitas agent contacting the user
who completes the form, where he is required to indicate whether or not he is a client of
Sanitas and obligatorily provide your age, name and email and in
voluntarily your phone, as well as fill in the sections of the subject and
message.

The other form is to obtain information, for which it is required to provide
the name and email of the user in mandatory form and the telephone in the form
volunteer, also filling in some boxes about preferred contact times.

FIFTH: On March 27, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings for the alleged
Violation of article 13 of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 58
section 2 of the same rule, considering that the sanction that could
to correspond would be a WARNING, without prejudice to what resulted from the
instruction.

The agreement was notified through certified postal delivery to both addresses
of the street ***ADDRESS.1 and ***ADDRESS.2, being in both cases returned the
shipments by “Unknown” at those addresses.

Subsequently, it was published in the bulletin board of the Official State Gazette, in

date May 9, 2019.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On November 13, 2018, you have entered the AEPD in writing
the claimant in which she denounces OVANIE AGENCY, S.L., because on the website
URL.1 personal data is collected from people who access it and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

they want to register, without the RGPD policy.

SECOND: The claimant submitted a copy of the Legal Notice published, dated December 13,
November 2018, on the website ***URL.1, where it is noted that the Privacy Policy
Data protection shown by the claimed party in section I of the Legal Notice of
said web page,- referring to the personal data collected by said company "In
contact forms or raters.”-, is not updated to the RGPD, since in
Instead of containing the information required in article 13 of said regulation, it refers
to the requirements established in Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
Personal data protection.

In the outlined section it is reported that the automated data files

are the responsibility of Ovanie Agency, SL.

THIRD: On March 4, 2018, the Legal Notice published in the
website ***URL.1, verifying that the information contained in section I of the
It coincides with the one that appeared in the document presented by the claimant.
Likewise, the existence of several contact forms in said
web page, at the end of which a blank button appears next to the text “I accept the
Privacy Policy”, which refers to the document without updating already reviewed, and another
button with the text "Submit".

One of the forms is to subscribe to the offers newsletter.
Another form is to request information on health insurance
which will be provided by a Sanitas agent contacting the user
who completes the form, where he is required to indicate whether or not he is a client of
Sanitas and obligatorily provide your age, name and email and in
voluntarily your phone, as well as fill in the sections of the subject and
message.

The other form is to obtain information, for which it is required to provide
the name and email of the user in mandatory form and the telephone in the form
volunteer, also filling in some boxes about preferred contact times.

FOURTH: As of August 19, 2019, on the website sanitasinfo.com, in the
privacy policy, the same information is maintained as at the beginning of this
process.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

II

Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), under the rubric
“Definitions”, provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with those definitions, the collection of data from
personal character through forms included in a web page constitutes a
data processing, in respect of which the data controller must give
compliance with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that has displaced
from May 25, 2018 to article 5 of Organic Law 15/1999, of May 13,
December, Protection of Personal Data.

III

Ovanie Agency, SL. is accused of violating the provisions of article

13 of the RGPD that determines:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their

representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis

legal treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the

legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,

in your case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to
data portability;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of
not provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said further treatment, information
for that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

“Article 11. Transparency and information to the affected
1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must be

contain at least:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, in his

case.

b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22

of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Ovanie Agency, SL., has incurred in infringement of the regulations on protection
of data, materialized in a collection of personal data of users who
fill in the contact forms included in the website ***URL.1 without the
claimed provides them with all the information provided for in article 13 of the aforementioned
RGPD, since the information offered refers to the Organic Law 15/1999, of 13 of
December, Protection of Personal Data.

The exposed facts constitute an infraction attributable to the
claimed, Ovanie Agency, SL., for violation of article 13, Information that
It must be provided when the personal data is obtained from the interested party, of the RGPD.

IV

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD considers that the infringement of “the rights of
interested parties under articles 12 to 22” is punishable, in accordance with the
 “with fines
section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation,
administrative fees of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.

At the same time, in the LOPDGDD its article 74 "Infringements considered
mild”, states that “They are considered mild and the remaining ones will expire after a year.
infractions of a merely formal nature of the articles mentioned in the
paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the
following:

a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

right to information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the
Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

However, article 58.2 of the REPD provides the following: "Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations. About
when it is appropriate to opt for one or the other route, the application of article 83 of the RGPD
or the corrective measure of warning of article 58.2.b), the rule itself in its
Recital 148 of Regulation 2016/679, which establishes the following:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

It should be noted that since it was not possible to notify any document to the
reported party, it has not had the option to modify the privacy policy that
appears on the web page denounced, adapting it to the norm in force for more than
one year, article 13 of the RGPD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE OVANIE AGENCY, S.L., for an infringement of article 13 of the
RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.b) of the aforementioned RGPD and,
classified as mild, for prescription purposes, in article 74. a) of the LOPDGDD, a
penalty of WARNING, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b)
of the GDPR.

SECOND: ORDER OVANIE AGENCY, S.L., under the provisions of the
article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, the adoption of the necessary measures to adapt the
information offered to the requirements contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD,
must provide users, at the time they collect personal data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

of the same via form, all the information required in the aforementioned precept, to
what the claimed must take into account the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD in
relation to the legality of the treatment. Said measure would have to be adopted, where appropriate,
within one month from the date on which the resolution is notified
sanctioning, having to provide the means of evidence accrediting its
compliance.
 the modification of the privacy policy that appears on the website.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to OVANIE AGENCY, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
114.1 c) of the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

