1/4

Procedure No.: PS/00054/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before CIBES
LIFT IBERICA, S.L., by virtue of a claim filed by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the
claimant) and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. On July 17, 2018, he filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The claim is directed against CIBES LIFT IBERICA,
SL with NIF B87216925 (hereinafter, the claimed) because the image of the claimant
continues as of the date of the complaint, linked to the web pages of the aforementioned company, as well
as in the main web search engines, despite the fact that he no longer works at CIBES LIFT
IBERICA, S.L. since two years ago.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim, the Subdirectorate
General Data Inspection proceeded to carry out preliminary actions of
investigation to clarify the facts in question, in accordance with the
established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation for the Protection of
Data, hereinafter RGPD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that

the data controller is the claimed party.

THIRD: On February 13, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
infringement of article 5.1. d) of the RGPD, in relation to article 5 of the LOPDGDD;
typified in art. 83.5 section a) of the RGPD and qualified as very serious in art. 72.1.a)
of the LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: On February 27, 2019, CIBES LIFT IBERICA, S.L., makes allegations to the
initiation agreement stating the following:

CIBES reviewed its electronic media, its web pages and its internal newsletters and
removed any reference that might exist to the claimant's image, so his
image is no longer stored on the CIBES website or on any of the
its computer records or accessible by any means controlled by
CIBES, for which it has been completely suppressed and is no longer linked to the
CIBES web pages.

The removal of the claimant's image from the CIBES systems was
communicated to the AEPD in the letter sent by CIBES on November 13, 2018,
specifically in its Third section, which reports:

“Once the appearance of said image was known, CIBES proceeded to
review its internal bulletins and eliminated any reference that might exist to the
mentioned image. To date there is no image of the claimant on which
CIBES has control over its publication.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

The communication sent to the AEPD on November 13, 2018 and the
delivery certification issued by the Royal Mint – National Factory of
Moneda y Timbre accrediting the suppression work that CIBES carried out in an
that although the image of the claimant appears as a result of the search engines
Internet search when entering search requests with terms such as “CIBES
LIFT IBERICA”, the web address to which this page redirects does not host the image
controversial.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data in this procedure are considered proven facts the following,

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On July 17, 2018, the claimant's image continued to be linked to the
web pages of the aforementioned company, as well as in the main search engines of the network, despite
because he no longer worked at CIBES LIFT IBERICA, S.L. since two years ago.

SECOND: CIBES reviewed its electronic media, its web pages and its bulletins
and removed any reference that might exist to the image of the claimant, for
so your image is no longer stored on the CIBES website or in
none of your computer records or accessible by any means
controlled by CIBES, so it has been completely suppressed and is no longer
linked to the CIBES web pages.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in what
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to resolve this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the

treatment of personal data.

Furthermore, art. 5.1 d) of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be
“accurate and, if necessary, updated; all reasonable steps will be taken
to have inaccurate personal data deleted or rectified without delay
with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”).”

III

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of powers
corrective measures, among which is the power to impose fines, in the event that
there is an infringement of the provisions of the RGPD.

Article 58 section 2 GDPR provides the following:

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers

listed below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period.

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

In the present case, it is taken into account that by virtue of the principle of accuracy, the
personal data must be up to date and all reasonable measures will be taken
to have inaccurate personal data deleted or rectified without delay
with respect to the purposes for which they are processed.

In this specific case, it has been accredited by virtue of the documents provided
with his allegations to the initial agreement that the respondent has adopted a series of
adequate measures to guarantee the accuracy and quality of the data that appear in the
website of CIBES LIFT IBERICA, S.L.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: NOTICE CIBES LIFT IBERICA, S.L., with NIF B87216925, for a
infringement of article 5.1 d) of the RGPD typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and
considered very serious in article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CIBES LIFT IBERICA, S.L. and, according
to article 77.2 of the RGPD, INFORM the claimant about the result of the claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this

Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 114.1 c)
of the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP,
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the
day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm decision may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the interested party

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through
any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1
october. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that accredits the
effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency did not have
knowledge of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two
months from the day following the notification of this resolution, I would consider
The precautionary suspension has ended.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

