Case number: NAIH / 2020/1866/5.
NAIH / 2019/2314.

Subject: Infringement decision
DECISION

Before the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: the Authority), the Hungarian
Debt settlement against the Private Limited Liability Company (registered office: 1023 Budapest, Bécsi út 35. 6th floor 71., hereinafter: the Debtor)
in a procedure in which the Authority is responsible for the data management of the data subject
CXII of 2011 on the right and freedom of information Act (hereinafter: the Information Act) and the
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Examined compliance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter: GDPR), a
Authority shall take the following decisions:
In its decision, the Authority shall:
I. finds that the Debtor
(1) has handled and manages personal data without a legal basis, and therefore for the period before 25 May 2018
Infotv. Section 5 (1) of 25 May 2018
Article 6 (1) of the GDPR for the period after
(2) before the start of data processing did not provide adequate information about personal data
and did not obtain all personal data from the data subjects
therefore express for the period before 25 May 2018
violated the principle of lawful and fair data management, ie Infotv.
§ 4 (1), as well as the Infotv. § 3, point 3 b) and Infotv. Section 20 (2)
Article 5 (1) of the GDPR for the period after 25 May 2018
(a) the principle of "legality, due process and transparency" and the GDPR
Article 12 (1) and Article 13 (1) of the GDPR,
(3) did not prepare a data management register and a data processing contract with which the 2018.
Infotv violated the Infotv. Section 10 (4)
Article 28 and Article 30 of the GDPR for the period after 25 May 2018.
Article 1 (1).
II. The Authority shall order the - seized by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank in its market surveillance proceedings
restrictions on the processing of personal data processed without a legal basis.
III. The Authority prohibits the Debtor from engaging in official proceedings against him
uses personal data processed without a legal basis.
ARC. The Debtor shall be liable by the Authority for any unlawful processing of data by him
5,000. 000 HUF, ie five million forints
data protection fine
obliges to pay.

2

No procedural costs were incurred during the official proceedings and therefore no costs were incurred
provided by the Authority.
The time limit for bringing an action shall be the time limit for bringing an action for judicial review
within 15 days of the expiration of the Authority's centralized revenue collection target
forint account (10032000-01040425-00000000 Centralized collection account IBAN: HU83
1003 2000 0104 0425 0000 0000) shall be paid for. When transferring the amount a
NAIH / 2020/1866. JUDGE. number should be referred to.
If the Debtor fails to meet its obligation to pay the fine on time, it shall be in arrears
must pay a supplement. The rate of the late payment interest is the statutory interest, which is in arrears
equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the calendar half-year concerned. The fine and the
in the event of non-payment of the late payment allowance, the Authority shall order the enforcement of the decision, the fine
and the recovery of late payment in the manner of taxes. Fines and penalties for late payment
shall be recovered by the National Tax and Customs Administration.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but from the date of notification
within 30 days of the application to the Metropolitan Court in an administrative lawsuit
can be challenged. The application must be submitted to the Authority electronically, which is the case
forward it to the court together with his documents. Indicate the request for a hearing in the application
must. For non-personal tax exemptions, judicial review
the fee for the proceedings is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record fees. Before the Metropolitan Court
legal representation is mandatory in these proceedings.
The Authority shall issue this decision on the Authority's website for the identification of the Debtor
publish.

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT

I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
I.1.A Magyar Nemzeti Bank (seat: 1054 Budapest, Szabadság tér 9 .; hereinafter: MNB)
has notified the Authority of its ex officio market surveillance proceedings against the Debtor; and
infringement of the law relating to the processing of personal data of which he is aware
Act CXXXIX of 2013 on the Magyar Nemzeti Bank on the circumstances indicating the occurrence of
with reference to Section 44 (1) of the Act.
On 13 September 2018, the employees of the MNB carried out an on-site inspection
Debtor, where there were a number of documents related to his activities that
the MNB closed it.
The MNB forwarded the documents seized from the Debtor together with its notification to the Authority
copies of which contained the following documents and personal data:
-

Documents entitled Mandate Contracts (hereinafter: Mandate Agreements)
contract) in which the debtors entrust the Debtor or the Debtor

3

-

persons in an employment relationship to “debt settlement, so-called
other consultancy activities ”in which clients
In order to reduce or optimize the debt of the Trustee, the Trustee shall
of the debt settlement solutions described above is the most suitable for the Client
select the method, negotiate with the creditors, representing the interests of the Client,
prepare receivables purchases with the involvement of appropriate financial service providers; and
if necessary, to represent it. "
agreements with banks and receivables managers and related
correspondence, documentation, authorizations,
title deeds, land registry decisions,
documents related to the income situation (employer's certificates, utility bills,
bank statements),
health data (findings, medical opinions) for requests for fairness,
documents relating to enforcement proceedings,
loan agreements and their terminations, documents on assignment,
settlements in connection with loan agreements,
records of litigation against creditors,
Decisions of the Financial Conciliation Board.

Under the assignment contracts, the debtors are required to work with the Debtor or with the Debtor
persons in a legal relationship (by proxy) are entitled to
to amend their previous contracts with financial institutions on their behalf and on their behalf
act.
About 300 Hungarian natural persons can be identified from the documents under seal
have had a contract of assignment with the Debtor or are bound to the Debtor
a power of attorney has been granted to a natural person. The records of about 300 Hungarian natural
documents that can be linked to a person, ie concluded with the Debtor as listed above
their assignment agreements, loan and credit agreements, their settlements, their terminations,
and assignment agreements, agreements with their creditors,
the title deed of their real estate and related land registry decisions, employers
their certificates, utility bills, enforcement against natural persons
proceedings or litigation.
Personal identification and address data in the file, for income and financial situation,
workplace, litigation against creditors and other, mainly enforcement, proceedings
data on Infotv. Personal data pursuant to § 3 (2) and Article 4 (1) of the GDPR,
as well as information and findings on the state of health in the Infotv. Section 3 (3) and a
Health data pursuant to Article 4 (15) of the GDPR.
The Authority considered it appropriate to examine the above data processing ex officio
initiate an official inspection in view of the number of persons involved in the activities of the Debtor
presumably large and the available data were insufficient to assess
whether the Debtor has fully complied with the provisions of the Information Act and the GDPR
obligations. On August 8, 2019, NAIH / 2019/2314. number, launched official
the Authority closed the inspection and on 9 October 2019 ex officio
initiated against the Debtor.
I.2.Description of the Debtor's activity
According to the public company data, the Debtor has been operating since October 24, 2016,
as of the main activity from 06.04.2017 other ancillary financial activities.

4

The Debtor has also promoted the service provided on its website, according to which
negotiates on behalf of the debtors for a specified fee on behalf of the debtors
with various financial institutions in order for them to modify their dealings with customers
previous contracts. However, the Debtor performs this activity as a financial intermediary and broker
It was carried out without the permission of the MNB, and it did not have data management information on its website.
I.3. Agency contract
Among the documents seized are the documents entitled the contracts of assignment, which are
the contractual relationship between the data subjects and the Debtor was regulated by the customers
contain the following personal data: name, birth name, place of residence, identity card
number / tax number, customer contact details (telephone number, e-mail address, mailing address).
In the document called the Contract of Assignment, the data of the parties, the service, the fee
in point 7, the so-called “Confidentiality Provisions and
restrictions on competition ”in relation to the processing of personal data
there are provisions in part, but not in this part
provisions.
Text of clause 7 of the agency contract:
“7.1. Unless the Parties expressly classify the information otherwise, this Agreement
preparing
by concluding
by fulfilling
by modifying
or
termination
all information relating to the contract which has been provided or become known in the context of
(including oral information obtained through communication) from the storage medium and the
regardless of the form, shall be considered a business secret of the Parties. The Client and the Agent are the other Party
with the exception of statutory exceptions, this Agreement shall apply without the consent of
content or trade secret of the other party may not be made available or made available to third parties
may not be used by a party for any purpose other than this Agreement.
7.2. Customer declares that its legal statements made during the negotiations leading to the conclusion of this contract
they correspond to reality, to the extent necessary for the activities of the Agent, in full
contains information about the case. Customer expressly agrees to be entrusted with the
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this contract
to the extent and for the duration, to make copies of them and to make the same
conditions.
7.3. Data and documents provided to the Agent shall terminate this Agreement
for 5 years after. After the expiration of the custody period, the documents handed over to the Customer
at the place of central administration. If Customer is not for the documents
they shall be destroyed by the Agent. "
I.4.The Authority shall comply with NAIH / 2019/2314/5. in order to clarify the facts
invited the Debtor to make a statement, with reference to which the Debtor provided the following information:
sent:
According to public company data, Bagi-Albert Mona Hydrangea is the senior executive (a
hereinafter 'the Chief Executive Officer'), however, the Chief Executive Officer claimed that
whereas, from the summer of 2017, […] will be a full-time senior official,
by proxy. A copy of the power of attorney has not been sent to the Authority.
The Chief Executive Officer also stated that he was not at his disposal due to the above
all information. According to the statement, the provisions of the GDPR began in the summer of 2018

5

and a data protection consultant and auditor were asked in the second half of the year
to do this, who assessed the Default of the Debtor and made a proposal for data protection
compliance with the regulations, but was not available to the Debtor
neither resources nor personnel for the actual execution.
The Debtor does not have / had a data management information about personal data
does not keep / kept separate records.
The data subject used the google drive service as a data processor
subcontractors engaged in data processing activities, whose tasks are performed with customers
communication, data collection for contracting. With data processing contracts
does not have the Debtor.
The MNB launched a on-site inspection during the market surveillance inspection on 13 September 2018
During the audit, the employees of the MNB closed most of the Debtor's documents and then
On March 5, 2019, the Debtor received the MNB's injunction. Consequently
the Debtor is on the verge of bankruptcy and has become insolvent. Currently, the Debtor does not have
employee, does not carry out any activity, his tangible assets have been sold, a
documents were archived.
The data of the customers who have contacted the Debtor can be divided into three groups. One is accounting and
the data required for the conclusion of the contract, which are provided by the provisions of the Accounting Act
should be preserved. The other group of data is the contractual performance of the professional
activity - related data (including, but not limited to, loan agreements, payment
summonses, termination, documents received in enforcement proceedings). The data is third
group of documents generated between the Debtor's service.
I.5.The Authority shall comply with NAIH / 2020/2314/7. again in order to clarify the facts
called on the Debtor to make a statement, as the Debtor was aware of his previous statement
further data processing conditions have become warranted. At the request of the Authority, the Debtor shall:
sent the following information:
Introduction of the GDPR in relation to the processing of personal data of the Obligated employees
data management practices continued after the entry into force of the GDPR. The workers
only the management of the company and the accountant-payer
Head of Personnel. The Debtor also stated that these
have not been enshrined in data protection regulations.
According to the Debtor 's statement, the personal data of the principals have been processed with their consent, as
the clients sent them voluntarily, they were aware that this data
are used.
I.6. The Authority contacted the MNB, as the MNB is publicly available on H-P-J-1/2020.
informed of the decision that the Debtor was subject to ex officio market surveillance
In these proceedings, the MNB issued a decision in which the MNB prohibited the
It is obliged to perform its financial services without the permission of the MNB. The Authority is the general
CL of 2016 on administrative order. Act (hereinafter: the Act) Section 25 (1) b)
requested the MNB to send it H-P-J-1/2020. (hereinafter: the MNB
decision). The MNB has determined that the Debtor is engaged in brokerage activities
without a license to perform financial services activities, therefore the MNB
with its decision immediately prohibited the Debtor from financing without the permission of the MNB
to carry out a service activity and to carry out an activity without his authorization
in this context, ordered the payment of a market surveillance fine.

6

II. Applicable legal provisions
1/1/2018 for data processing after 25 May:
On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 ('the GDPR')
the GDPR shall apply to data processing.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2), the GDPR is included in the provisions indicated therein
shall apply mutatis mutandis.
The relevant provisions of the GDPR in the present case are the following:
According to Article 4 (1) of the GDPR, "personal data" means identified or identifiable natural data
any information about the person ("data subject"); identifiable natural person who
directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier such as a name, number,
location data, online identification or physical, physiological, genetic,
one or more factors relating to his intellectual, economic, cultural or social identity
identifiable by;
According to Article 4 (7) of the GDPR, "data controller" means a natural or legal person, a public authority
body, agency or any other body which processes personal data for the purposes of and
determine its assets independently or together with others; if the purposes and means of data management are
determined by Union or Member State law, the controller or the designation of the controller
specific aspects may be laid down in Union or Member State law;
According to Article 4 (8) of the GDPR, "data processor" means a natural or legal person, a public authority
body, agency or any other body which collects personal data on behalf of the controller
treats;
According to Article 4 (11) of the GDPR, "consent of the data subject" means the voluntary, specific consent of the data subject
and a sufficiently informed and unambiguous statement by which the statement concerned is made
or by an act which unequivocally expresses its confirmation that it gives its consent
to process personal data concerning him;
According to Article 4 (15) of the GDPR, "health data" means the physical or physical data of a natural person
personal data relating to the mental state of a person, including a natural person
data on healthcare provided to him
carries the state of health of the natural person;
Personal data pursuant to Article 5 (1) (a) to (c) of the GDPR:
(a) be processed lawfully and fairly and in a manner which is transparent to the data subject
("legality, fairness and transparency");
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not processed
in a way incompatible with those objectives; not in accordance with Article 89 (1)
considered incompatible with the original purpose for the purpose of archiving in the public interest, scientific
and further processing for historical research or statistical purposes (‘for purposes
constraint ”);
(c) be appropriate and relevant to the purposes for which the data are processed; and
they should be limited to what is necessary ("data saving");

7

Pursuant to Article 5 (2) of the GDPR, the controller is responsible for complying with paragraph 1,
and must be able to demonstrate this compliance ("accountability").
GDPR Article 6 (1) (a), (b), (c), (f) and (3): Processing of personal data
is lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following is met:
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes
treatment;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which one of the parties is a party;
or to take action at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
required;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(f) processing for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the data subject take precedence over those interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms which call for the protection of personal data,
especially if the child concerned.
3. The legal basis for the processing referred to in points (c) and (e) of paragraph 1 shall be the following
state:
(a) Union law, or
(b) the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.
The purpose of the processing shall be determined by reference to this legal basis and in accordance with paragraph 1 (e).
with regard to the processing of data referred to in point (a), it must be necessary in the public interest
or a task performed in the exercise of a public authority conferred on the controller
to implement. This legal basis may include the application of the rules contained in this Regulation
adjusting provisions, including the lawfulness of the processing by the controller
general conditions, the type of data subject to data processing, the data subjects, the
the entities with which personal data may be disclosed and the purposes of such disclosure,
restrictions on the purpose of the data processing, the duration of the data storage and the data processing
operations and other data processing procedures, such as lawful and fair data processing
measures necessary to ensure compliance, including the other as defined in Chapter
for specific data management situations. EU or national law must pursue an objective in the public interest
must be proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued.
According to recital 39 of the GDPR, the processing of personal data is lawful and
it must be fair. It must be transparent to natural persons that a
how their personal data about them is collected, used, viewed
or how they are handled, and in connection with the processing of personal data
the extent to which they are or will be treated. The principle of transparency requires that it be personal
information and communication related to data processing is easily accessible and
be clear and in clear and simple language. This is it
This principle applies in particular to the identity of the data subject and the purpose of the processing
and further information to ensure that the data subject is provided
fair and transparent handling of your personal data and to inform you that
data subjects have the right to receive confirmation and information about the data processed about them. THE
the natural person about the risks and rules related to the processing of personal data,
guarantees and rights and how the data processing can be exercised
rights in this regard. The specific purposes of personal data processing are, above all, explicit
and lawful, as well as the collection of personal data
must be specified at the time of Personal data for the purpose of their processing
they must be appropriate and relevant and the range of data required for the purpose
should be kept to a minimum. To do this, you must ensure in particular that your personal data

8

storage should be limited to the shortest possible period of time. Personal information only in case
may be managed if the purpose of the data processing cannot be reasonably achieved by other means.
To ensure that personal information is stored for the required period of time
limited, the controller shall set time limits for erasure or periodic review. THE
all reasonable steps must be taken to correct or delete inaccurate personal information
to do. Personal data must be handled in a way that ensures its proper level
security and confidentiality, inter alia, in order to prevent
unauthorized access to personal data and the means used to process personal data
access or unauthorized use.
Pursuant to Article 12 (1) of the GDPR, the controller shall take appropriate measures to that end
in accordance with Articles 13 and 14 on the processing of personal data.
all the information referred to in Articles 15 to 22 and and Article 34
in a concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible form, in a clear and comprehensible manner
particularly in the case of any information addressed to children. The
information shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means
to specify. Oral information may be provided at the request of the data subject, provided that it is otherwise substantiated
the identity of the person concerned.
Pursuant to Article 13 (1) to (2) of the GDPR, if the personal data concerning the data subject are
collected from the data subject, the controller shall be the data subject at the time the personal data were obtained
provide each of the following information:
(a) the identity and contact details of the controller and, if any, of the controller 's representative;
(b) the contact details of the Data Protection Officer, if any;
(c) the purpose of the intended processing of the personal data and the legal basis for the processing;
(d) in the case of processing based on Article 6 (1) (f), the controller or a third party
legitimate interests;
(e) where applicable, the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
(f) where applicable, the fact that the controller is a third country or international organization
personal data and the Commission’s Compliance Office
the existence or absence of a decision in accordance with Article 46, Article 47 or Article 49 (1)
in the case of the transmission referred to in the second subparagraph of
the means of obtaining the guarantees and the means of obtaining a copy thereof, or
reference to their availability.
(2)
In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall be personal data
at the time of acquisition, in order to ensure fair and transparent data management
provide the data subject with the following additional information:
(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible, that period
aspects of its definition;
(b) the data subject's right to request from the controller the personal data concerning him or her
access to, rectification, erasure or restriction of the processing of data, and
may object to the processing of such personal data and to the portability of the data concerned
the right to
(c) information based on Article 6 (1) (a) or Article 9 (2) (a);
in the case of data processing, the right to withdraw the consent at any time, which
does not affect the lawfulness of the processing carried out on the basis of the consent prior to the withdrawal;
(d) the right to lodge a complaint with the supervisory authority;
(e) that the provision of personal data is required by law or by a contractual obligation
based on or a precondition for concluding a contract and whether the person concerned is obliged to be personal
data and the possible consequences of providing the data
failure;
(f) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used

9

understandable information on the significance of such processing and on the data subject
its expected consequences.
Article 58 (2) (b), (d) and (i) GDPR: In the power of the supervisory authority to rectify
acting:
(b) reprimands the controller or the processor if he or she is acting in a data-processing capacity
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation;
(d) instruct the controller or processor to carry out its data processing operations, where applicable
in a specified manner and within a specified period, bring this Regulation into line
with its provisions;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in this paragraph;
Article 83 (1) to (2) and (5) (a) to (b) of the GDPR: 1. Each supervisory authority shall ensure that:
infringement of this Regulation as referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 pursuant to this Article
the administrative fines imposed shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each case
be strong.
2. Administrative fines shall be imposed in accordance with Article 58 (2), depending on the circumstances of the case
It shall be imposed in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in points (a) to (h) and (j). When deciding
whether it is necessary to impose an administrative fine or the amount of the administrative fine
In each case, due account shall be taken of the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the processing in question
the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by the infringement;
the extent of the damage they have suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) the mitigation of damage caused to the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
and the technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Article 32;
(e) relevant breaches previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and the possible negative effects of the breach
the degree of cooperation to alleviate
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the breach has been reported by the controller or processor and, if so, what
in detail;
(i) if previously against the controller or processor concerned, in the same
one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2) has been ordered orally
compliance with revolving measures;
(j) whether the controller or processor has kept itself approved in accordance with Article 40
codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42;
and
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case, such as:
financial gain or avoidance as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
loss.
5. Infringements of the following provisions in accordance with paragraph 2 shall not exceed 20 000
An administrative fine of EUR 1 000 000 or, in the case of undertakings, the preceding financial year
amounting to a maximum of 4% of its total annual world market turnover, provided that the
the higher of the two shall be charged:

10

(a) the principles of data processing, including the conditions for consent, in accordance with Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
appropriately;
(b) the rights of data subjects under Articles 12 to 22. in accordance with Article
Infotv. relevant provisions:
Infotv. Enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1)
In order to do so, the Authority may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings. The data protection authority
CL of the General Administrative Procedure Act 2016. Act (hereinafter:
Ákr.) Shall be applied with the additions specified in the Information Act and in accordance with the GDPR
with differences.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (2) (a), the Authority may order its decision - the
by publishing the identification data of the data controller or the data processor
if the decision affects a wide range of persons.
Infotv. 75 / A. §, the Authority shall exercise the powers provided for in Article 83 (2) to (6) of the GDPR
proportionality, in particular by providing personal data
legislation or a binding act of the European Union
for the first time in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in
in accordance with Article 58 of the GDPR, in particular the controller or processor
shall be warned.
II.2. Data processing prior to 25 May 2018 (text valid until 25 May 2018)
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 3, Clause 9, data controller: the natural or legal person or legal entity
an unincorporated organization which, in law or in the European Union
within the framework set out in a binding legal act - individually or together with others
the purpose of the processing of the data (including the means used)
makes and executes decisions or executes them with the data processor.
Infotv. Personal data pursuant to § 3 (2): data that can be contacted with the data subject - in particular
the name, identifying mark and one or more physical, physiological, mental, economic,
knowledge of the cultural or social identity of the
conclusion on the data subject;
Infotv. Special data pursuant to Section 3 (3): belonging to special categories of personal data
all data, ie racial or ethnic origin, political opinion, religious or worldview
personal data indicating beliefs or trade union membership, as well as genetic
data, biometric data for the unique identification of natural persons, health
data and on the sexual life or sexual orientation of natural persons
personal data.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 4 (1), personal data is used for a specific purpose only, exercise of a right
and can be managed to meet an obligation. At all stages of data management
must comply with the purpose of the processing, the fair collection and processing of the data, and
must be legal.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 5 (1), personal data may be processed if
(a) the data subject consents thereto, or
b) it is ordered by…. Act.

11

Infotv. Pursuant to Section 5 (2), special data in the cases specified in Section 6, and
can be handled if
(a) the data subject consents in writing to the processing,
b) in the case of the data contained in Section 3 (3) (a), the international law promulgated by law
a fundamental right required for the performance of a contract or guaranteed by the Basic Law
national security and the prevention or prosecution of criminal offenses
in the interests of national defense or by law, or
c) in the case of data specified in Section 3 (3) (b), for purposes based on the public interest
to order.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 6 (1), (4) and (5), personal data may be processed even if the data subject
obtaining your consent would be impossible or disproportionate and personal data
his treatment
(a) necessary to fulfill a legal obligation to which the controller is subject, or
(b) either in the legitimate interest of the controller or of a third party
necessary, and
the exercise of this interest is proportionate to the restriction of the right to the protection of personal data.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 10 (4), the contract for data processing must be in writing
Reserve. Data processing cannot be entrusted to an organization that is to be processed
interested in a business using personal data.
Infotv. Pursuant to § 20:
1. The data subject shall be informed of the consent to the processing prior to the processing
based on or mandatory.
(2) The data subject shall be clearly and in detail informed before the start of the processing
all facts relating to the processing of your data, in particular the purpose of the processing and
the data subject and the person authorized to process and process the data
the personal data of the data subject pursuant to Section 6 (5)
and who can access the data. The information shall cover the
the data processing rights and remedies concerned.
III. Decision:
III.1 Period covered by the data processing and the applicable legislation
The Debtor has been operating without a permit since October 2016, the Authority is an official
its inspection procedure began on August 8, 2019, which lasted until October 9, 2019
therefore, the data management period under investigation is the period from October 2016 to 8 August 2019. The
The data protection authority proceedings were initiated ex officio on 9 October 2019.
With regard to the examined data management for the period before 25 May 2018, the
Infotv.
for the period after 25 May 2018, the GDPR and Infotv. applicable
shall apply.
III.2. Activities of the Debtor and quality of data management
III.2.1. By its decision, the MNB established that the Debtor has been authorized by the MNB since October 2016
CCXXXVII of 2013 on Credit Institutions and Financial Undertakings.
(hereinafter: Hpt.) pursuant to Section 3 (1) (i) of the Financial Services Act
carried out activities under which credit / loan agreements with financial institutions were concluded
acting on behalf of individuals.

12

III.2.2.The Authority has determined that III.2.1. in the context of its activities referred to in
the purpose and means of data management were determined by the Debtor independently, therefore the Infotv. 3. § 9.
and Article 4 (7) of the GDPR, as the settlement procedures
during which the Debtor acted and represented the debtors and the personal data relating thereto
handled, stored and used in the Debtor's premises.
III.3. Categories of personal data and number of data subjects affected by the data subject's data processing
III.3.1.The Authority has established that the personal data of the Debtor, including according to
special data as well as health data in accordance with the GDPR.
The special data and health data were in the documents provided by the Debtor's customers
and substantiated the debtors ’fairness claims. These documents include
they were handed over to the Debtor because the Debtor also took them into account
whether to act on the debtor's case.
A total of about 300 Hungarian natural persons can be identified among the documents under seal
either had a contract of assignment with the Debtor or is bound to the Debtor
a natural person has been authorized, ie the number of data subjects
about 300 people.
III.4. Data processors Infotv. § 10 (4) and Article 28 (3) GDPR
registration of data processing activities under Article 30 of the GDPR
III.4.1.According to the Debtor's statement, data processors have also been used in their data processing,
however, no data processing contract has been concluded in this respect, despite the fact that
Infotv. Section 10 (4) and Section 28 (3) GDPR expressly provide for this, therefore the Authority
found that the Debtor had violated the Infotv. § 10 (4) and Article 28 (3) of the GDPR
paragraph.
III.4.2. According to the Debtor's statement, no records have been kept of their data processing activities,
although Article 30 of the GDPR expressly provides for this, given that Article 30 of the GDPR
The exception rule in paragraph (5) shall not apply because the activities of the Debtor are not occasional
was therefore of a nature during the investigation period, and the Authority therefore found that the Debtor had infringed the
Article 30 (1) of the GDPR.
III.5. The data management information
According to the Debtor's statement, the data of the data subjects are processed on the basis of their consent, therefore
proper prior information is particularly important.
In its reply dated 29 August 2019, the Debtor stated that “Our Company does not
had a separate data management information. Due to the insolvency of our company a
Due to the failure to switch to GDPR, it was not developed later. The data
the need for and use of the contract only with the clients
referred to in the Treaties. "
In its reply dated 29.10.2019, it stated that the
Our company was no longer able to complete and implement compliance with GDPR,
finance …"
According to the wording of clause 7 of the agency contract:

13

“7.1. Unless the Parties expressly classify the information otherwise, this Agreement
preparing
by concluding
by fulfilling
by modifying
or
termination
all information relating to the contract which has been provided or become known in the context of
(including oral information obtained through communication) from the medium and the appearance
regardless of the form, shall be considered a business secret of the Parties. The Client and the Agent are the other Party
with the exception of statutory exceptions, this Agreement shall apply without the consent of
content or trade secret of the other party may not be made available or made available to third parties
may not be used by a party for any purpose other than this Agreement.
7.2. Customer declares that its legal statements made during the negotiations leading to the conclusion of this contract
they correspond to reality, to the extent necessary for the activities of the Agent, in full
contains information about the case. Customer expressly agrees to be entrusted with the
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this contract
to the extent and for the duration, to make copies of them and to make the same
conditions.
7.3. Data and documents provided to the Agent shall terminate this Agreement
for 5 years after. After the expiration of the custody period, the documents handed over to the Customer
at the place of central administration. If Customer is not for the documents
they shall be destroyed by the Agent. "
III.5.1. The period before May 25, 2018
The rules of prior information are set out in Infotv. Section 20 contains.
If the purpose of the data processing based on consent is prior to a written contract with the data controller
as well as its implementation and liaison, in which case
the contract must contain all the information required for the processing of personal data
under this law, the data subject must know, in particular the data to be processed
the duration of the data processing, the purpose of the use, the
the fact, the recipients, the fact of using a data processor. The contract is unambiguous
shall include a statement that the data subject consents to the data specified in the contract
according to
The facts referred to above, the documentary evidence obtained and available and the Debtor
Based on the statement of the Debtor, only the Contract of Assignment is named in the documentation of the Debtor
Document 7 (hereinafter referred to as the “Contract of Assignment”) contains data management information in accordance with Article 7.
and only in part, and the consent of the data subject
statement.
However, the Assignment Agreement does not provide information that the Debtor is exactly the person concerned
which handles your personal data, as a lot of personal data can be found in the seized documents,
for example, in relation to the income situation, health data, the handling of which
no mention is made in the Contract of Assignment. Furthermore, the Assignment Agreement does not
because the fact that you can pass on personal data to ‘contributors’
cannot be accepted as adequate information as it does not specify who should be
considered as contributors and these persons are data controllers or data controllers
whether they qualify.
Information is necessary for those involved to truly enjoy information self-determination
with their right and with the right information they can really decide whether to consent to it
for data management. The signature of the statement of consent in the contract of assignment is appropriate
in the absence of information does not mean Infotv. the existence of a valid consent under

14

Based on the above, it can be concluded that Infotv. Does not meet the requirements of § 20 a
“Mandate Agreement”, which is the only document among the Debtor’s documents that
which partly contains the data management rules.
After examining the Debtor's statement and the documents seized in the case, the Authority
found that the Debtor did not provide adequate data management information to the
in connection with the data management activities of the data subjects, therefore it violated the Infotv. § 20
Paragraph 2.
III.5.2. Period after May 25, 2018
If personal data concerning the data subject are collected from the data subject, the personal data of the data controller shall be processed
in order to ensure fair and transparent data management at the time the data are obtained
provide detailed information to stakeholders on the requirements of Article 13 (1) of the GDPR.
Recital 39 of the GDPR requires that information on data processing be provided
should be transparent and made available to stakeholders in an appropriate manner (eg
website) subject to any additional conditions for the legal bases chosen.
Article 12 of the GDPR sets out the formal requirements with which they must comply
to data controllers when they are allowed to exercise their rights, including data subjects
prior information. Based on this, data controllers are concerned with the processing of personal data
all information in a concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible form, in a clear and concise manner
they must provide in a comprehensible manner.
A IIII.5.1. The following shall apply to the examination of data processing after 25 May 2018
also in the context of:
According to the Authority's findings, it is included only in point 7 of the Mandate Agreement and so on
only partially data protection provisions and the consent of the data subject
statement. However, the Contract of Assignment does not provide information on
concerned exactly which personal data the Debtor handles as the seized documents
Among the many and varied personal data can be found, such as income status, health
data, the handling of which is not provided for in the Contract of Assignment
mention. Furthermore, the Mandate Agreement does not state clearly because it is that the Debtor
transferring personal data to “contributors” is not acceptable
information, as it does not specify who should be considered as contributors and these are
persons are considered to be data processors or data controllers.
Information is necessary for those involved to truly enjoy information self-determination
with their right and with the right information they can really decide whether to consent to it
for data management. Signing a statement of consent does not mean not being properly informed
the existence of a contribution under the GDPR.
Based on the above, therefore, given that the Debtor in the course of his activities clearly
data processing related to personal data (including health data)
therefore the Debtor should have received appropriate, easily accessible information
on 25 May 2018 when concluding a contract with its customers.
Given that the Authority has established it from the Debtor's statement, as well as from the MNB
from the file seized and examined by the Authority that the Debtor dated 25 May 2018

15

did not provide adequate information on data processing to data subjects after
infringed Articles 12 (1) and 13 (1) of the GDPR.
III.6. Legal basis for data management
III.6.1. Before May 25, 2018
III.6.1.1. Consent - based data management
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 5 (1) (a) and Section 3 (7), data processing is possible if
the person concerned is voluntary, firm, well-informed and unambiguous
has given his consent for the data controller to process his personal data.
Infotv. § 3 (7) defines the concept of consent, according to which consent is
voluntary and firm expression of the wish of the data subject, with appropriate information
based on. Accordingly, consent is an important element of prior information
based on. Given that, according to the Debtor's statement, also seized from the Debtor
on the basis of the documents, the Authority has established that the Debtor has not provided detailed information,
whereas clause 7 of the contract of assignment can only be classified as partial personal information
in connection with the processing of personal data, therefore Infotv. Section 3 (7) “preliminary
the requirement of ‘information’ was not met, so it could not address the
In addition to the personal data of the data subjects not specified in the Assignment Agreement, he is obliged to provide additional information
personal data, such as the income situation of the data subject, and the Infotv. Pursuant to Section 3 (3) (b)
special data, which was data on the state of health of the data subject
legally.
According to the Assignment Agreement:
“Customer expressly consents to being entrusted with the data provided to it in this Agreement
to the extent and for the time necessary to achieve the objectives set out in this Article
prepare them and pass them on to their contributors under the same conditions˝.
Clause 2 of the Assignment Agreement defines the subject of the agreement, according to which the client
negotiate with creditors to reduce its debt arising from its existing credit transaction,
reach an agreement. The Authority found that it was not even clear what the purpose of the data processing was
information can only be deduced indirectly from the subject of the contract.
According to the Debtor 's statement, the personal data of the principals have been processed with their consent, as
the clients sent them voluntarily, they were aware that this data
are used. The Authority does not agree with this position as the contribution is
Infotv. shall be admissible only if it is clear and express
other personal data not mentioned in the Assignment Agreement
did not request the express consent of the Debtor.
Given that the Debtor did not provide adequate information to the persons concerned
in connection with the processing of your personal data and not all personal data
obtained a clear, explicit consent, the Authority therefore concluded that
Its obligatory data management violated Infotv. § 4 (1), ie the lawful and
the principle of fair data management, as well as the Infotv. Section 5 (1) of the Infotv. § 3 point 3 b)
point as well.

16

III.6.2. After May 25, 2018
The Chief Executive Officer stated that the GDPR was launched in the summer of 2018.
and in the second half of the year, a Data Protection Adviser and
an auditor was also asked to do this, who assessed the Defendant's deficiencies and made a recommendation
to establish compliance with data protection regulations, however, the Debtor was not entitled to a
have neither the resources nor the staff to carry it out.
In line with the above, the Authority also found the documents seized
based on the study that the Contractor was not amended by the Debtor in 2018.
in order to comply with the provisions of the GDPR applicable from 25 May.
According to recital 171 of the GDPR, the date of entry into force of the Regulation
Data processing started before 2006 had to be brought in line with the Regulation. If
data processing is based on consent and the consent complies with the requirements of the Regulation
conditions, the data subject does not need to be re-authorized in order for the controller to
continue data management. If the consent did not comply with the regulation
requirements, in particular the conditions set out in Articles 7 and 8,
must be obtained from those concerned.
III.6.2.1. Data management on the basis of consent
The Assignment Agreement contains the following data of the clients: name, birth name, place of residence,
identity card number / tax number, customer contact details (telephone number, e-mail address, mailing address),
and personal information on the property and income situation of the clients among the seized documents
data, special personal data, their contracts could be found.
Pursuant to Article 6 (1) (a) of the GDPR, the processing of personal data referred to above
under Article 4 (11) of the GDPR
information in the context of the processing
before a decision is taken to grant an authorization, and clearly state the
their consent.
According to the Data Protection Working Party, “the individual concerned must be informed in a clear and comprehensible manner, accurately and
it must provide full information on all […] relevant issues, such as processed
the nature of the data, the purpose of the processing, the recipients of the possible transfer and the
on the rights of data subjects. " (Working document stored in the electronic health record,
on the processing of personal data concerning the state of health, WP 131, Brussels, February 2007
15.)
III.5.2 of the explanatory memorandum to this decision. 25 May 2018, with reference to the
It was also established with regard to the data processing after the day of
adequate information, only partially informed the data subjects
therefore in Article 4 (11) of the GDPR
that the consent must be based on adequate information has not been enforced. And so is it
Section 6.1.1. of this Decision has been established. that not all personal information
Obtained a clear, explicit consent for the management of the Debtor, which was issued on 25 May 2018.
also for the data management period after
Due to the above, the Authority found that the Debtor was unlawfully treated by the data subjects
personal data and therefore infringed Article 6 (1) of the GDPR.

17

By the fact that the Debtor, in addition to the partial data management information set out in the “Contract of Assignment”
did not have any other data processing information, in breach of Article 5 (1) of the GDPR
the provision of personal data under this principle
must be handled lawfully and fairly and in a manner that is transparent to the data subject
("Legality, due process and transparency").
III.6.2.2. Management of special categories of personal data
By handling special categories of personal data, i.e. health data
rules are also contained in the GDPR. On this basis, on the one hand, under Article 5 of the GDPR
the processing must comply with the principles of data processing and the legal basis under Article 6
must be based on one of them. Additional legality requirements are set out in Article 9 of the GDPR.
Pursuant to Article 9 (1) of the GDPR, for the unique identification of natural persons
genetic data and the processing of health data - as a general rule - even under the GDPR
Provided that the conditions laid down in Article 6 are met), it is prohibited only in Article 9 (2)
may be lawful if a condition is met.
Whether one of the cases referred to in Article 9 (2) arises in this case, and
Thus, the general prohibition on the processing of "special data" in Article 9 (1)
can be dispensed with - only by all the circumstances of the data processing and by the Debtor
can be decided with knowledge of the desired goal.
Based on the subject of the contract specified by the Debtor in clause 2 of the Assignment Agreement a
It is obligated to reduce the debt arising from the customer’s existing credit transaction
negotiate with creditors in order to reach an agreement, so it is related to this activity
the purpose of data management is set out here. Based on this, the GDPR is included in Article 9 (2)
In such cases, point (a) could be applied to the Debtor 's activity, on the basis of which the
health data may be processed only if the data subject has expressly requested to do so
gave his consent.
In the context of the processing of data of the health of data subjects, it can also be stated that a
The condition in Article 4 (11) of the GDPR that consent must be given in an appropriate manner
therefore, the Authority found that the Debtor was concerned
health data without consent, ie without a legal basis.
III.6.2.3. Necessary for the performance of the contract and on the basis of an accounting obligation
data handling
However, in the statement sent to the Authority by the Debtor in connection with his data processing
did not invoke the legal basis under Article 6 (1) (b) of the GDPR, but the Contract of Assignment
contains the following provisions:
“Customer represents that its disclaimers during the negotiations leading up to this contract a
to the extent necessary for the activities of the Trustee
contains information about the case. Customer expressly agrees to be entrusted with the
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this contract
to the extent and for the duration, to make copies of them and to make the same
conditions. "
In the light of the above, the data subject's processing could be lawful under Article 6 (1) (b) of the GDPR.
on the grounds that the processing is a contract
in which one of the parties is concerned.

18

In connection with the above, it can also be stated that the Debtor's activities
Act C of 2000 on Accounting also provides for the obligation to keep records,
therefore, the related data management of the Debtor pursuant to Article 6 (1) (c) GDPR
may be legal.
However, in connection with the above, the Authority found that in view of the fact that the MNB
H-P-J-1/2020. According to the decision of the Debtor in the brokerage business of financial services
without a license to carry out the activity, which is why he was banned from doing so
MNB from the performance of this activity, so in the opinion of the Authority, this was done illegally
data processing in connection with the activity and its purpose is also illegal.
Based on the above, the Authority found that the Debtor had acted unlawfully
infringed Article 5 (1) (a) and (b) of the GDPR in the handling of data relating to its activities
(b) and, due to the illegality of the activity, its processing is not
cannot be considered lawful by reference to Article 6 (1) (b) and (c) of the GDPR.
An essential condition for the lawfulness of data processing is that it has an appropriate legal basis
be.
Article 6 of the GDPR provides for possible legal bases for the processing of personal data, ie
cases where a data processing may be lawful, provided that the other provisions of the GDPR
such a legal basis may include, but is not limited to, the consent of the data subject.
The GDPR does not contain any restrictions on the form in which the consent is to be given, only the
requirements for its validity - on a voluntary, specific, appropriate basis
based on a clear declaration of intent by which the statement or confirmation concerned is made
by means of an unequivocally expressive act, he gives his consent to the person concerned
to handle data - specify.
Therefore, if the legal basis for the processing is Article 6 (1) (a) GDPR
consent, the controller must be able to prove that he has obtained a valid consent
from the data subject, the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing. The Authority found that
The debtor was unable to prove that the parties concerned had given their appropriate consent to the GDPR
for the processing of their personal data, therefore the Authority has also established that the Debtor a
It also infringed the principle of accountability under Article 5 (2) of the GDPR.
III.7. Legal consequences
The Authority condemns the Debtor pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) of the GDPR because
-

violated the Infotv. § 3 point 3 b)
Infotv. § 4 (1), Infotv. § 5 (1), Infotv. Section 10 (4)
and Infotv. Section 20 (2), and

-

infringed Article 5 (2) of the GDPR by processing data after 25 May 2018
Article 5 (1) (a) and (b) of the GDPR, Article 6 (1)
Article 12 (1) of the GDPR, Article 13 (1) of the GDPR, the GDPR
Article 28 and Article 30 (1) of the GDPR.

Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (d) of the GDPR, the Authority instructs the Debtor to limit
the processing of the personal data of the data subjects, so that the Debtor has initiated only against him
in the context of official proceedings
data.

19

The Authority has examined whether it is justified to impose a data protection fine on the Debtor. E
Article 83 (2) of the GDPR and Infotv. 75 / A. § considered by the
all the circumstances of the case. In view of the circumstances of the case, the Authority concluded that the present case
In the case of infringements detected during the procedure, the warning is neither proportionate nor dissuasive
a penalty is necessary and a fine must be imposed.
In imposing the fine, the Authority took into account the following factors:
In particular, the Authority took into account that the infringements committed by the Debtor
In accordance with Article 83 (5) (a) and (b), it falls within the higher category of fines
constitute an infringement.
In imposing fines, the Authority took into account the following as aggravating circumstances:
•
The infringement is of a continuous nature, having persisted during the period under investigation, of which a
Authority will only impose a fine for the period after the entry into force of the GDPR, ie until 2018.
took into account the period after 25 May. [Article 83 (2) (a) GDPR];
•
The breach affects a large number of data subjects involved in the processing of recorded personal data
an infringement committed with inadequate information or unlawful data processing
number of customers approx. 300 persons [Article 83 (2) (a) GDPR];
•
Failure to provide information on the processing of personal data constitutes a serious breach
[Article 83 (2) (k) GDPR].
•
Identified data breaches are considered to be intentional [Article 83 GDPR
Paragraph 2 (b)] and also concern specific categories of personal data [Article 83 GDPR.
Article 2 (2) (g)].
•
The extent of the Debtor's liability for the violations found is high,
since it started a business in accordance with the basic principles of data protection
[Article 83 (2) (d) GDPR].
•
The violation committed by the Debtor is not an indication of the Debtor, but one
In connection with the market surveillance procedure, it came to the Authority's attention on the basis of the MNB's signal
[Article 83 (2) (h) GDPR].
The Authority did not consider the imposition of a fine to be relevant under Article 83 (2) (c), (d), (f), (i), (j)
conditions set out in
According to the Debtor's consolidated financial statements for 2018, its pre-tax profit is 491,000
Ft.
The Authority shall inform Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (2), the decision shall be issued with the identification data of the Debtor
as the decision affects a wide range of persons.
Based on the above, the Authority has decided in accordance with the operative part.
ARC. Other issues:
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a), its jurisdiction is
covers the whole country.
The Ákr. Pursuant to § 112 and § 116 (1) and § 114 (1)
and the order is subject to administrative redress.
***

20

The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3) a)
Pursuant to point (aa) of the Act, the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. A Kp. Section 27 (1)
Legal representation in proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal shall be mandatory. A Kp. § 39
(6) of the application for the entry into force of the administrative act
has no suspensive effect.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter: the e-administration Act), the client's legal representative pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b)
obliged to communicate electronically.
The place and time of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee is
Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party instituting the proceedings.
If the Debtor fails to duly prove the fulfillment of the prescribed obligation, the Authority shall
considers that it has failed to fulfill its obligations within the prescribed period. The Ákr. According to § 132, if the debtor
has not complied with an obligation contained in the final decision of the authority, it shall be enforceable. The Authority
decision of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final with the communication. The Ákr. Section 133
enforcement, unless otherwise provided by law or government decree, a
ordered by the decision-making authority. The Ákr. Pursuant to § 134 - enforcement if law,
a government decree or, in the case of a municipal authority, a local government decree otherwise
does not have - the state tax authority implements it. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (7) a
To carry out a specific act contained in a decision of an authority, specified
the decision as to the obligation to conduct, tolerate or stop
shall be carried out by the Authority.
Budapest, July 23, 2020

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

