

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities of Advertising ONE, a.s. - processing of personal data of users of the web portal www.chcipraci.cz



On the basis of the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection of the processing of personal data of users of the employment mediation web portal, which offers employment mediation to job seekers and the search for employees to employers.

The complainant stated that it is not clear from the above-mentioned web portal who is the administrator of personal data, and further that there is a suspicion that personal data entered by users through the web portal are being misused for another purpose.

During the Office's inspection, the claim of the complainant was not confirmed. The authority found that the operator of the website is an American company. In the case of the controlled company, which is registered in the Czech Republic, it was not proven that it participated in the operation of the web portal. According to his statement, he only provides advertising services for a company based in the United States of America. The Office further found that the inspected person is registered with the General Directorate of the Labor Office as a company providing work mediation, however, according to its statement, it does not actually carry out this activity. With regard to the above, the inspection did not establish that the inspected person processes the personal data of job applicants.

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. However, following the audit findings, they will consider further action, including initiating an audit with a company based in the United States of America.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector MVDr. František Bartoš.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Sitemap > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st half > Advertising ONE, a.s. - processing of personal data of users of the web portal www.chcipraci.czView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



