 

Ďuriš Nicholsonová 
Member of the European Parliament 
 
by e-mail only 

 

Dear Ms Ďuriš Nicholsonová, Dear Mr Jurzyca,  

Brussels, 23 April 2020 

Ref: OUT2020-0030 

I would like to thank you for your letter dated 23 March 2020 with regard to the need for common 
guidance on the application of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and other relevant 
legal instruments of the EU in matters of data protection, in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemics.  

As  a  preliminary  remark,  let  me  emphasise  that  the  EDPB  is  extremely  concerned  about  this 
emergency, and is fully committed to do whatever falls within the remit of its mandate and powers to 
help Member States reduce the virus spread.   

The  EDPB  is  aware  that  the  COVID-19  outbreak  is  raising  numerous  questions  concerning  data 
protection and privacy issues, especially in the context of national Governments and private actors 
turning towards the use of data driven solutions to help fight the spread of the disease.  

In this context, I would like to highlight that data protection laws already take into account data 
processing operations necessary to contribute to the fight against an epidemic. Therefore, there is 
no need to lift GDPR provisions but just to observe them. The EDPB has already issued guidance on 
data protection and privacy issues in this current crisis1, as have many of its Members. What public 
health authorities in the Member States are allowed to do depends on the tasks assigned to them by 
law. Similarly, what employers can do concerning their own staff depends largely on national labour 
laws.  Notwithstanding  any  potential  difference  in  these  sector  specific  laws,  as  regards  data 
protection matters, the EDPB has  already published guidelines on the  issues of geolocation and 
other tracing tools2, as well as the processing of health data for research purposes3 in the context 
of the COVID-19 outbreak.  

There are initiatives for apps and tools for voluntary self-tracking. A large variety of solutions are being 
developed. The EDPB has followed closely these developments and has already provided guidance on 
geolocation and other tracing tools for this purpose, as already mentioned. The national supervisory 
authorities are also closely following the issue at national level.  

It is of the utmost importance to preserve data protection principles even, and more importantly, in 
this difficult situation. The data protection principles (including lawfulness, transparency, fairness, 
purpose limitation, data minimisation, accuracy, storage limitation and security) not only guarantee 
                                                             
1 Statement of the EDPB chair of 16 March 2020, Statement of the EDPB of 19 March 2020, Letter to the 
European Commission of 15 April 2020 
2 Guidelines 04/2020 on the use of location data and contact tracing tools in the context of the COVID-19 
outbreak. 
3 Guidelines 03/2020 on the processing of data concerning health for the purpose of scientific research in the 
context of the COVID-19 outbreak. 

 

1 

 

the protection of fundamental rights of our citizens, in line with our common European values and 
democracies, but also create trust in the governments who are looking into post-confinement data 
driven measures.   

Finally, on the topic on additional legislative measures, should they be considered by Member States 
or at EU level, the EDPB and its Members stand of course ready to provide advice to the legislators, 
in line with articles 70 and 57 GDPR. Several Supervisory authorities are already in contact with the 
stakeholders looking into data-driven approaches.  

To conclude, maintaining transparency, data quality and trust is key for complying with the EU legal 
framework on data protection. They are also a key element of public acceptance of any measures 
enacted by governments and the take-up of initiatives proposed by private entities on a voluntary 
basis. Data protection rules ensure, among others, transparency, data quality and trust in a time 
where it is much needed in order for citizens to support the use of technology to fight the spread of 
the disease.  

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

2 

