Hearing of the President of the Authority for the Protection of Personal Data, Pasquale Stanzione, on bills 1900 and 1549 (Parliamentary Inquiry Commission on the Spread of False Information)  
Commission 1a (Constitutional Affairs) of the Senate of the Republic  
(January 12, 2021)  

First of all, I would like to thank the Commission for this opportunity for discussion and for the sensitivity shown regarding the privacy aspects of the phenomenon of disinformation, on which the Authority is once again expressing its views in the second reading. I would like to anticipate that I will focus on aspects not addressed by my predecessor during the hearing last March in the Chamber (the content of which I fully share), in order to provide the Commission with an even more comprehensive picture.  
From a methodological standpoint, I clarify that I will not dwell on the choice to resort to a parliamentary inquiry by establishing a Commission with the powers provided for in Article 82 of the Constitution, nor on whether it is bicameral or not, its duration, or composition, which are all issues clearly outside the competence of the Authority and subject to a purely political-institutional evaluation.  
The contribution that the Authority can offer on this point specifically pertains to the objective scope of the parliamentary inquiry and, therefore, to the analysis of the phenomenon that will then be the responsibility of the newly established Commission to scrutinize in all its aspects.  
In both proposed laws, the subject of the parliamentary inquiry seems well defined, perhaps except for the desire to extend it to a more recently emerged aspect on which the Authority is conducting a specific investigation: deep nude. This refers to the use of artificial intelligence techniques (based on deep learning) to create nude images from the faces or figures of specific individuals (even minors), including those found online. Such images are often used for retaliatory purposes, as a tool for abuse and coercion of another's will, within a framework of conduct that is not entirely attributable to the crime of revenge porn (Article 612-ter of the Criminal Code), especially due to the prerequisite of prior creation or theft of images intended to remain private. This requirement seems to exclude the applicability of the norm to fabricated material, especially since when the legal system has intended to refer to similar image insertions, it has generally expressly provided for it (consider virtual child pornography, pursuant to Article 600-quater.1 of the Criminal Code).  
These limitations of the criminal norm suggest the opportunity for a specific legislative intervention, possibly also by re-expanding (as was the case before the reform under Legislative Decree 101/2018) the application scope of the crime of unlawful processing of personal data (Article 167 of the Code), which would provide broad protection against multiple forms of violation of personal identity carried out by abusing the relevant data. In this sense, among the special illegality requirements that could constitute the crime, consent should be reintroduced (which was removed, except for cases of telemarketing, by the 2018 reform), thus covering multiple scenarios (the most frequent) of violations of individuals perpetrated online.  
One could also take the opportunity to extend to the crimes of unlawful processing the applicability of the aggravating circumstance – now limited to crimes against sexual freedom – referred to in Article 609-duodecies of the Criminal Code, concerning the use of means aimed at preventing the identification of access data to telematic networks, in order to counteract the retaliatory and criminal use that is often made of anonymity.  
A reference to deep nude, as the subject of the parliamentary inquiry, could also be made with an additional amendment to Article 2, paragraph 1, letter g) of bill no. 1900, in the part that alludes to the effects of the development of AI on disinformation activities.  
But beyond the specific aspect of deep nude, to which the parliamentary inquiry could be extended, both proposals, in any case, well direct it towards the analysis of a plurality of themes among which are disinformation activities in the health sector (on which the Commission specifically intervened with the communication of June 10, 2020, “Tackling COVID-19 disinformation – Getting the facts right.”), the correlation between disinformation and consumer or antitrust offenses, hate speech and manipulation of public opinion, the procedures adopted by operators for managing removal requests and complaints, as well as possible forms of co- and self-regulation, which have been promoted for some time by the EU Commission.  
Both bills, therefore, capture the systemic profile well and, conversely, the personal implications; the social risk and the individual prejudice connected to disinformation as a pathological degeneration of information excess, a distortion of the “parrhesia” of the network. Despite the variety of areas it touches, the issue of fake news (certainly not born with the internet, but profoundly changed by it to assume radically new forms) underlies two essential questions that the newly established Commission could, in particular, choose to explore: the accountability of platforms and individual protection.  
The need for accountability of the “private powers” of platforms has emerged, with greater clarity, after Cambridge Analytica, in the very delicate area of manipulation of political-electoral opinion (a theme on which Agcom and the Authority have begun a fruitful dialogue). The last American presidential elections, with the fact-checking systems adopted also by blogs and social networks to counter fake news, have further demonstrated the centrality of platforms in shaping the political opinion of citizens increasingly accustomed to informing themselves through online channels. However, even this type of strategy does not likely resolve the fundamental issue of “nudging” that came to light with Cambridge Analytica, namely the influence of information on decision-making processes.
for microtargeting; of news and even of electoral propaganda selectively proposed to the user, based on their voter profile created by the algorithm through the digital tracking of their online activity. This is the phenomenon that Sunstein has defined as the "Daily me," that is, the presentation of reality shaped by the algorithm according to the category (of consumer, user, voter) to which it deems to assign the individual, with inevitably distorting effects on informational pluralism and on individual self-determination itself. 

Moreover, political messages based on "alternative truths" are not uncommon: arguments in which the objectivity of facts is far less influential in shaping public opinion compared to emotionality and personal beliefs. This reduction of truth to a more or less effective narrative has non-negligible effects on political information, favoring the spread of false representations upon which political opinions and even electoral choices are based. The sending of content specifically tailored to the way of being, thinking, and acting, deduced from the online behavior of the user detected by the algorithm, can indeed have a manipulative effect on their thinking that is incomparable to any monopoly of information because it is capable of adapting so perfectly to the "target's" thoughts as to anticipate their judgment and strongly limit their self-determination.

The contrast to such distorting phenomena primarily involves the prevention of the unlawful exploitation of user data that underlies them, for which, for example, the Authority has sanctioned Facebook in the Cambridge Analytica case. The relevance of this method of counteraction is such that European regulation (Reg. EU, Euratom, No. 1141/2014, as amended by EU, Euratom Regulation 2019/493) expressly sanctions today the unlawful use of personal data to influence electoral outcomes, often – as seems to have happened in the election of Trump – even by foreign powers.

However, beyond the more strictly "privacy" aspects, systemic innovations could arise from the Digital Services Act, the draft regulation recently presented by the Commission that incorporates some of the most relevant measures introduced – also regarding the procedures for the removal of illegal content – by the German law on social networks, by the loi Avia of last June as amended by the Conseil Constitutionnel, as well as by sectoral EU regulations. The DSA introduces certain obligations, especially of a proactive nature, on online platforms, differently modulated based on the number of active users, in the spirit of their preventive accountability. It reaffirms – and indeed strengthens with a new Good Samaritan Clause – the exemption from secondary liability for operators concerning the illegal acts committed by users on their platforms and the necessary prohibition of general and preventive monitoring of content. However, the DSA compensates for this safe harbor with regulatory obligations aimed at minimizing the risk of violations or, in any case, containing their harmful effects. To this end, it imposes the establishment (differently modulated according to the relevance of the platform) of internal procedures for deciding on requests for the removal of illegal content or content contrary to company policies, with obligations for justification and appeal of the choices made, as well as the referral of disputes to ADR bodies with adequate independence requirements.

In this sense, the path taken by jurisprudence towards greater accountability of the operator (consider the figure of active hosting) is "positivized," aimed at preventing the network, with the force of viral sharing and the ubiquity of its services, from becoming a sounding board for the most diverse violations of individual rights. Moreover, the renunciation of introducing a form, albeit limited, of accountability for the operator risks reflecting a shift from the idea of freedom to that of anomie, ignoring that the absence of regulation, in a context devoid of any limits to the expansion of private power, does not produce equality but subordination to the imperatives of the market.

The narrow ridge on which the Digital Services Act moves is the maintenance of the fundamental option underlying Directive 2000/31, namely the general regime of (only) conditional liability of the operator – with the corresponding prohibition of general monitoring of content – combined, however, with a series of procedural and substantive obligations expressive of both the principle of accountability and the standard of responsibility.

The Commission's proposal intervenes at a time of heightened need to ascribe to large platforms responsibilities at least commensurate with the relevance of the power (not only economic) exercised by them. In this sense, consider the (objective) liability of Amazon for the intermediation carried out regarding the sale of a defective product, affirmed in the Bolger case by the ruling of August 13, 2020, of the Fourth District Court of Appeal of California, based on the reliance placed by users on the quality of the products hosted by the platform. Although not free from criticism, this ruling undoubtedly reflects the need (felt even in the legal system where this regime of only conditional liability of operators was born) to surround the power of platforms with an adequate system of limits and responsibilities.

In this context, the Commission's choice not to yield to the model of objective liability of the platform for the services intermediated or the content disseminated by users is significant, while not renouncing a revision of the regulation in a more rigorous sense.
(consider the principle of know your business customer, which requires platforms to adequately assess the reliability of the professionals to whom they grant spaces). The essence of this legislative innovation lies, therefore, in the transition from (sole) responsibility to accountability, which could have decisive effects – as noted in the preparatory works for the drafting of the DSA – also in the area of misinformation, particularly regarding transparency obligations on online advertisement and commercial suggestions. Misinformation and the resulting manipulative effects are, moreover, specific systemic dangers that the DSA mandates evaluation of, within the framework of a risk analysis related to the activities carried out, in order to appropriately modulate the guarantees to be adopted, including the codes of conduct to adhere to.

The obligation to provide reasons for the decisions made and their appealability should contribute to making the exercise of removal power by platforms more transparent, which, if not adequately circumscribed and made 'visible' and subject to scrutiny, risks making them arbiters of rights online. The issue of platform accountability can undoubtedly also be the subject of analysis by the Commission, especially to provide contributions from the national Parliament in an upward phase.

Regarding the individual effects of informational distortion online – including, in their broadest spectrum, hate speech, as clarified by the bills themselves – the essential points have already been made, particularly concerning the extension of the objective scope of application of the crime of unlawful processing of personal data. It is now sufficient to note the opportunity to delve into the issue of remedial protection for users harmed by illegal online content. As demonstrated by the cases of the right to be forgotten and cyberbullying, the mechanism based on the request to the provider for removal and the subsequent appeal to the Authority in case of inaction or rejection is a useful tool for protecting personal rights online. It indeed combines the need for prompt removal of content (especially in cases of voluntary compliance by the provider) with the reservation of the public authority's decision in the last instance, in the presence of both parties.

This is an overall balancing that responds to the needs highlighted by the Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights, the latter particularly with some rulings that have even established, for States, a positive obligation to ensure appropriate measures to protect personal dignity (see, in particular, Delfi v. Estonia of 2015). One could therefore reflect on the extension of this regulation to cases such as hate speech (as provided for in the Moretti bill of the previous legislature), the dissemination of false news harmful to individual identity (as provided for in the Zanda bill of the same legislature), and even deep nude. In this way, it would allow the Authority to provide effective protection to the victims of these offenses, even acting directly on the platforms (which cannot strictly be classified as data controllers for the processing carried out by users on their profiles).

Finally, I appreciate the emphasis assigned by the bills to the role that digital education plays in preventing various distorting phenomena of the web, including misinformation. This is a crucial aspect, especially for the education of future generations, who, despite being digital natives, still require extensive awareness of the risks to which the web exposes us and from which the web itself must be freed, so that it can return to being that space of freedom and democracy that we increasingly need.