1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00464/2019

938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00464/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. with CIF: B67120550,
(hereinafter, "the entity claimed"), in view of the complaint filed by Ms. A.A.A., (in
hereinafter, "the claimant"), and based on the following,
BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 10/14/18 and 10/15/18, you entered this Agency in writing, pre-
seated by the claimant, in which she stated, among others, the following:

“The last festival of ***LOCALIDAD.1 a screening of “Sandwich” was held by par-
production company You PLanet, for which many people had bought tickets.
das, The description of the projection in the ticket sales was: Synopsis “Fa un pa-
rell d'anys, l'Ismael will decide fer-se vegetarià. Arrel d'això, most of the situations
everyday, eating outside the house, is going to turn into extremely complicated fets.
cats. One good day qualsevol, looking for a bar to have lunch a entrepà apt for him, co-
mençarà a great adventure full of drama, romances, comedy and action”.

In no case in the purchase of tickets is there a reference to the recording of
images in the room. At the entrance they put up a sign, which safely and knowingly
no one read the dynamics of the festival, because when you enter the films you have to
run to get a seat and it is not possible to read signs. At no time at the beginning of
The projection was informed to the public that it was going to be recorded, nor was it offered to the attendees.
You get a refund of the price of their tickets if they didn't want to be recorded.

There was no express consent of the attendees for the recording, but
further, it was an experiment that consisted of angering the attendees to
then record their reactions and make a movie with them, to enrich
lie of the producer itself.

In addition to the tease, none of the attendees signed authorizing the use of
their images and more after causing them a clear anger, which threatens the
Right to self-image.

A misunderstood art cannot be an excuse to violate personal rights.
them of people, but this company blatantly ignores data protection
not only at the Retiro cinema in Sitges, but also on its website, where in no
In some cases, it informs what uses will be given to the data collected from the form on the page.
on the web, nor do they inform of the exercise of rights, they do not even have a legal notice
in which the required data is provided according to the LSSI ***URL.1

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the investigative powers
tion granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, with dates 11/12/18, 11/23/18 and 09/26/19, it is addressed requiring
informative information to the claimed entity, (YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

THIRD: According to a certificate from the Electronic Notifications Service and Address
Electronic Enabled, the request sent to the claimed entity, dated
11/12/18, through the Notific@ service, was rejected, dated 11/23/18.

According to a certificate from the State Post Office, the notification sent to the company
claim, dated 11/23/18, through the SICER service, to the address: c/ Bal-
month 243, attic; 08006 Barcelona. was returned to origin by, "unknown", with fe-
cha 04/12/18.

According to a certificate from the State Post Office, the notification sent to the company
claim, dated 09/26/19, through the SICER service, to the address: Paseo
of Grace 26, pta. 4; 08007 Barcelona, was delivered, dated 10/01/19.

FOURTH: On 10/10/19, the entity claimed, (YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L),
directs a written response to the request made by this Agency, in which
indicates, among others, the following:

“The recording made at the ***LOCALIDAD.1 Festival is provided as it has been
incorporated into the documentary "Vosotros sons mipelicula" [for clarification purposes,
note that “Bocadillo” was the film that was screened at the ***LOCALIDAD.1 Festival and
“You are my film” is the documentary that was shot during said screening”] and
that is attached to this document as Doc1, this being the only con-
served on that day.
2. Regarding the method of obtaining consent for personal data processing
of the participants, as well as, in the case of minors, of the method of
proof that the companions were their parents or legal guardians, during the
filming of the documentary "You are my movie", it is necessary to explain simultaneously
mind the special circumstances surrounding the shoot:

(Yo)

(iii)

(iii)

The film “Bocadillo” (hereinafter, the “Film”) that was screened at the
***LOCALIDAD.1 Festival on October 12, 2018 is a
“fake movie” starring the Youtuber known as
“Wismichu”, in which the same scene was shown for more than an hour.
loop dinner with slight modifications.

The purpose of the film was to document the reaction of the audience
during its viewing, to later show it in the documentary “Vo-
you are my film” (hereinafter, the “Documentary”), which, among other things,
aspects, analyzes the impact of fame on the public and the media
communication, highlighting the erosion of truth in the digital age.
such.

Although the nature of the Documentary prevented expressly reporting
He knows why the public attending the screening of the Film was going to be recorded
during its viewing, otherwise the purpose of the
Documentary, an attempt was made to include the recording notice in the entry, but for
the mechanics of the festival itself proved impossible. For this reason it was chosen
for placing the poster that is attached to us with the Requirement, this being
poster a common practice in the audiovisual sector to warn the public
assistant that a recording is going to take place in the room in order to prevent

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

(iii)

(v)

(saw)

those who do not wish to appear, refrain from entering the
same.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the recording team had instructions to take
wide shots of the room, do not record as much as possible unless
of age and to obtain in situ the written consent of all those
people who had a prominent presence in the recording
(medium/close-ups where they were recognizable). are accompanied
by way of example, some of the authorizations obtained as Documents
ment nº2, this being the model usually used by Youplanet in
their productions, this serving as evidence of its use in this case.

After the recording, during the editing process of the Documentary
mental health, those people who had not signed the authorization were located.
tion on the day of the screening and its signature was obtained [It is necessary
point out that a large part of the audience were Youplanet contacts, or
relatives and guests of the team, which facilitated the location a posteriori].
As an additional measure, those per- sons were not included in the final edition.
persons who did not sign the consent, and those whose presence was
inevitable, his image was blurred so that he could not
They may be identifiable on the recording.

As for minors, although there were few minors under 14
years that they attended and despite the fact that the Organic Law 1/1982, of 5
May, Civil Protection of the Right to Honour, Privacy and Own
Image, establishes that “the consent of minors and those incapable of
should present themselves if their conditions of maturity allow it.
have, in accordance with civil legislation”, in relation to article 162.1º
of the Civil Code, for the sake of a peaceful exploitation of the Documentary, the
production team chose to ask for the consent of parents or guardians.
res of those people who appeared to be under 18 years of age. For
This was asked directly to the minors' companions and it was
obtained his signature, whose authorizations, by way of example, were accompanied
as Document No. 3, this being the model with minors used to
usually by Youplanet in its productions, serving as evidence
evidence of its use in this case.

(viii)

Youplanet obtains in all its audiovisual productions the consent
written training of the participants through models similar to those
we accompany

FIFTH: In view of the reported facts, the documentation provided by the
parties and in accordance with the evidence available, the Data Inspection
of this Spanish Agency for Data Protection considered that the performance of the en-
entity claimed did not meet the conditions imposed by the regulations in force, therefore
that the opening of a sanctioning procedure proceeds. Thus, on 09/01/20, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to initiate a procedure
sanctioning the claimed entity (YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L), for infraction of the
article 13 of the RGPD, argued in it that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

“In the present case, two situations are reported. In the first, it is claimed that the
entity claimed did not warn those attending the screening of the film that
they were going to be taxed by the company and by another it is denounced that on the page
website of its ownership (***URL.1), there is no information on the treatment of the data
personal data that they collect in it.

Regarding the first part of the complaint, it has been verified that, in the poster announcing
located at the door of the projection room provided by the claimant-
you can read:

“IN THIS SPACE SHOOTING AND RECORDING OF THE DO-CU-
MENTAL “EL BOCADILLO” (“THE DOCUMENTARY”) […] IN WHICH THEY WILL BE RECORDED
IMAGES OF THE PUBLIC THAT IS IN THIS SPACE. WITH YOUR IN-
TRADA IN THIS SPACE AUTHORIZES THE RECORDING OF ITS IMAGE AND VOICE
DURING HIS PARTICIPATION IN THE SHOOTING AND RECORDING OF THE DOCUMENTARY,
TRANSFERRING PERSONALLY AND FREE OF CHARGE YOUR IMAGE RIGHTS TO THE
PRODUCER FOR THE CORRECT USE AND EXPLOITATION OF THE REFERRED
RECORDING IN THE PROGRAM, WITHOUT TEMPORARY OR TERRITORIAL LIMIT AL-
GUNO, WITH THE AUTHORITY TO ASSIGN TO THIRD PARTIES AND FOR ITS EXPLOITATION IN
ANY FORMAT. SUPPORT AND/OR MEDIUM IN WHICH THE
EXPLOITATION OF THE DOCUMENTARY REVOCATION OF THIS AUTHORIZATION
IT WOULD CAUSE SERIOUS HARM TO THE PRDDUC-TDRA, SO IT IS
PLEASE REFRAIN FROM ENTERING INSIDE THIS SPACE IF YOU DO NOT
YOU WANT YOUR IMAGE TO BE CAPTURED. REPRODUCED AND EXHIBITED IN THE DO-
CUMENTAL.

REMEMBER THAT YOU CAN EXERCISE YOUR RIGHTS AT ANY TIME
ACCESS, RECTIFICATION, DELETION AND OPPOSITION OF YOUR PERSONAL DATA
NALES ADDRESSING THE MANAGEMENT FREE OF CHARGE AND IN WRITING
OF THE PRODUCTION COMPANY AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS YOUPLANET PICTURES C/
PASEO DE GRACIA 26, 4th FLOOR 08007 BARCELONA”

Request for information made to YOUPLANET, it is stating, among
other non-relevant aspects, that although the nature of the Documentary prevented informa-
state in an express way why the audience attending the screening was going to be recorded
of the Film during its viewing, otherwise the purpose of the film would be distorted.
Documentary, it was decided to place the poster, referred to in the complaint, on the front door
trada, this sign being a common practice in the audiovisual sector to warn the
attending public that a recording is going to take place in the room in order to prevent
those who do not wish to appear refrain from entering it.

They add that the recording team had instructions to obtain consent on the spot.
written statements of those people who had a prominent presence in the
recording (media or close-ups in which they were recognizable).

Regarding the consent of parents or legal guardians of minors for the treatment
improvement of its image, YOUPLANET alleges that the production team chose to ask
the consent of the parents or guardians of those persons who appeared to be
under 18 years old. To do this, the companions of the
minors and their signature was obtained. The recording provided confirms the presence of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

which could be minor, but there is no sufficiently reasonable assessment to
Make sure they are under 14 years old. It is also observed that some
faces have been blurred. From all this, it follows that there is no violation
tion to current legislation.

However, regarding the second part of the complaint, in relation to the website
property of the claimed entity (YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L):, ***URL.1, is
notes, as of 01/09/20, that there is no information on the "Privacy Policy",
when collecting personal data, through a form, existing in the "contact" link.
to”, (name; e-mail and telephone), without obtaining consent for post-processing.
interior of the same and without there being a document that collects the privacy policy
of the company”.

SIXTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the person claimed, by means of a letter of faith
on 01/20/20, made, in summary, the following allegations:

“The Administration has caused an error by initiating a sanctioning procedure against the
entity YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. for the infringement of article 13) of the RGPD,
since said entity is not the owner of the website ***URL.1 and, consequently,
cia, is not responsible for the processing of personal data collected in di-
cha website, and for which reason it cannot be held responsible for the described infringement.
 
If we look at the legal texts that appear on the website www.youpla-
net.es (page that has given rise to this sanctioning procedure), appears
as the owner thereof, the entity YOUPLANET, S.L. and not YOUPLANET PICTURES,
S.L., which perhaps due to similarity in their denominations, has led to causing error to the
Management. In proof of the foregoing, they are attached as DOCUMENT 1 captur-
Screenshot of the aforementioned legal texts.
 
For clarification purposes we must point out that in the "Pictures" section of said page
website a description of the activities of "Youplanet Pictures" is made, with the sole
in order to report the existence of this film distributor, which is part of the
group of which YOUPLANET, S.L. is a part. This fact cannot incur responsibility.
ity on the web to YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. since, as I have already
As indicated, it is an entity independent of YOUPLANET, S.L. In the AC-
reality, YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. does not have a website.
 
However, the company YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. has communicated with the
of the web page, so that it can correct the breaches to which it refers.
the Administration.
 
If the company YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. has not committed any offense and, therefore,
Therefore, he lacks responsibility for the commission of the alleged acts, it is evident
that there is no passive standing, so the agreement to initiate the procedure
to sanction YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. becomes null, as
provided in article 47 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Ad-
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, and consequently, it is appropriate to
declare the nullity of the sanctioning file.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

Based on the foregoing, it is agreed to nullify the sanctioning procedure initiated against the
company YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L., leaving it without effect, as well as the file of the
present performances”.

SEVENTH: On 04/01/20, it is verified by this Agency that, in the
web “privacy policy” page: ***URL.2 the following information exists:

"1. Responsible for the treatment:

Identity: YOUPLANET, S.L. – NIF: B-95815783
Postal Address: Paseo de Gracia, 26, 4 2ª – 08007 Barcelona
Phone: ***PHONE.1
E-mail: ***EMAIL.1

2. For what purpose do we process your personal data?

At YOUPLANET we process the personal data and information provided to us by the
users in order to manage their queries and requests when they have authorized it.
users. So:

The data you provide us in the "Contact" section will be used solely and exclusively-
mind in order to manage the query or request that you pose us.
The data you provide us in the section “Become part of Youplanet Network:
START NOW” will be treated solely to manage the request and your possible
incorporation to our Network service.

3. How long will we keep your data?

The personal data you provide us will be kept for one year or as long as necessary.
necessary for the processing and response of the query or request, if a
top time.

4. What is the legitimacy for the treatment of your data?

The legal basis for the treatment of the personal data that you provide us for the fi-
nes described is your consent.

5. To which recipients will your data be communicated?

The data will not be communicated or transferred to third parties, except (i) to other companies in the
group to which YOUPLANET belongs if this is necessary for the purposes
critas, (ii) that there is a legal obligation.

6. What are your rights when you provide us with your data?

Anyone has the right to obtain confirmation about the treatment of their
personal data that is held by YOUPLANET.

You can exercise your rights of access, rectification, deletion and portability of
your data, of limitation and opposition to its treatment, as well as not to be subject to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

decisions based solely on the automated processing of your data, when
proceed, before YOUPLANET, at the postal or email address described
in the first section, providing in both cases National Identity Document or
equivalent that proves your identity.

In any case, you have the right to file a claim with the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection (https://www.agpd.es/), especially when you have not obtained
nest satisfaction in the exercise of your rights.

7. Modification of the Privacy Policy:

YOUPLANET reserves the right to modify, update or revise this Privacy Policy.
Privacy due to changes in the Website or in the applicable regulations.

We will inform you of any changes that occur in it so that you can return to
give your consent. In case you do not give your consent, the data
personal information will be deleted (or blocked, where appropriate) and it cannot be guaranteed
fulfillment of the purpose for which they were provided.

8. Third Party Links and Services.

This Website may contain links to third-party websites, whose privacy policies
emptiness are foreign to YOUPLANET.

Therefore, we recommend that you read the privacy policies of these websites.
of third parties before browsing them and providing them with your data.
YOUPLANET is not responsible for the acts or actions of said third parties with re-
relation to the use of your personal data or for any other reason.

EIGHTH: On 06/23/20, and once the existence of "privacy policy"
vacidad” on the website ***URL.1, and whose owner is the entity YOUPLANET, S.L., CIF: B-
95815783 and not the entity YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. CIF: B67120550 denounced,
the proposed resolution was notified with the proposal that, by the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection proceeded to the FILE of the presentation
sanctioning procedure as there is no violation of the provisions of the RGPD.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and do-
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1º.- On 08/15/18, the claimant denounced the entity, YOUPLANET PICTU-
RES, S.L. with CIF: B67120550, indicating that "on its website ***URL.1, no information is
form that uses will give to the data captured from the form of the web page, nor in-
form of the exercise of rights, they do not even have a legal notice in which
provide the required data according to the LSSI”.

2º.- On 12/11/19, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to re-
carry out actions to clarify the facts denounced, indicating that,
In relation to the privacy policy of the website (***URL.1), it is verified that there is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

have breaches of the RGPD regarding the protection of personal data, since they re-
collect data through a form without obtaining consent for the treatment.
to, without there being a document that includes the privacy policy.

3º.- On 01/09/20, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the person claimed for infraction of art.
Article 13 of the RGPD, argued in it, regarding the privacy policy of
the web page denounced that: “there is no information on the “Privacy Policy”
dad”, when collecting personal data, through a form, existing in the link of
“contact”, (name; e-mail and telephone), without obtaining consent for the treatment
subsequent development of the same and without there being a document that includes the policy of
company privacy

4º.- On 01/20/20, the claimed entity (YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. with
CIF: B67120550), submits a letter of allegations to this Agency, indicating in the
the same as:

- YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. is not the owner of the website ***URL.1 and, in
Consequently, it is not responsible for the processing of personal data that
collected on said website.

- In the legal texts that appear on the website itself ***URL.1 appears

The entity YOUPLANET, S.L.

- Currently, YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. does not have a website.

- YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. has contacted the owner of the page
web, so that you can correct the breaches referred to in the
Management.

5º.- On 04/01/20, the "privacy policy" of the reported website is accessed
***URL.2, checking that there is now information about your privacy policy,
among which is the identification of the person responsible for the page: “YOUPLA-
NET, S.L. CIF: B-95815783; Paseo de Gracia, 26, 4 2ª 08007 Barcelona”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

II

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
knowledge of the AEPD a vision of the denounced action that has been reflected
jada in the facts declared proven above related.
In the present case, the entity YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L. with CIF:
B67120550, indicating in the letter that the web page of its ownership, ***URL.1, does not
complies with current regulations, verifying by this Agency that, said
website did not have information about its privacy policy, so it starts
sanctioning procedure against the claimed entity.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

However, in the period of allegations, the entity denounced, YOUPLANET PIC-
TURES, S.L., alleges that “she is not the owner of the reported website (***URL.1),
but nevertheless, the owner of said web page has been communicated, so that he can
rectify the non-compliances to which the Administration refers”.,
It was later verified, by this Agency, that the denounced website now existed
a link, to the “privacy policy”, ***URL.2. From the information provided on this page
na highlights, as point No. 1:

1.- Responsible for the treatment:

Identity: YOUPLANET, S.L. – NIF: B-95815783
Postal Address: Paseo de Gracia, 26, 4 2ª – 08007 Barcelona
Phone: ***PHONE.1
E-mail: ***EMAIL.1

Therefore, in the present case, after analyzing the information, the
documents provided and the concurrent circumstances, there is no evidence of a possible
violation of current legislation in relation to the protection of personal data.
be personal.

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data

HE REMEMBERS:

FILE: procedure PS/00464/2019, initiated by the entity, YOUPLANET
PICTURES, S.L. with CIF: B67120550, for alleged violation of article 13 of the RGPD.

NOTIFY: this Agreement to the entity, YOUPLANET PICTURES, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of December 30,
bre, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, this Resolution is
will make public, once it has been notified to the interested parties. The publication is made
will be in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of December 22, of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection on the publication of its Resolutions.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may interpose
have, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection within a period of one month from the day following the notification
fication of this resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

