COMPLIES WITH REGULATIONS AND  
#PROTECTS YOUR DATA  
   If your company  
develops applications  
or technological products  
And we also help you with these  
additional materials  
The Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD)  
has designed  
various free resources  
that you can  
use depending on the  
type of data you process  
The AEPD offers various tools to help you  
comply with the Regulation and the Organic Law on  
Data Protection 3/2018.  
Additionally, it also warns SMEs and self-employed individuals of  
the risks of hiring services for compliance with data protection  
regulations from companies that offer them at 'zero cost'.  
The AEPD provides you with a  
website on innovation and  
technology where you will find  
guides, reports, and technical notes that  
will help you develop products and  
services adapted to the provisions of  
the GDPR from their design.  
What is 'zero cost' and why should I avoid it?  
Tips for preparing the Record of Processing Activities  
What are the main updates of Law 3/2018?  
Guide for the use of video cameras for security and  
other purposes  
Website for the processing of images for  
vide surveillance purposes  
@AEPD_es  
www.aepd.es  
Facilita  
Helps with compliance  
   If your company  
only processes low-risk data  
This free tool has been designed to assist  
companies and professionals that process personal data of  
low risk.  
It is presented as an online questionnaire with a  
maximum duration of 20 minutes, through which companies  
and professionals can, first, verify through  
a series of questions that the data they process can  
be considered low risk and, second, obtain  
the minimum essential documents to facilitate  
compliance with the regulations.  
Access Facilita  
View video tutorial  
Gestiona_EIPD  
Risk Analysis and Impact Assessments  
   If your company  
does not only process low-risk data  
This free tool aims to assist in  
conducting risk analyses and impact assessments for  
companies that carry out high-risk data processing, such as, for example, those involving health data or mass processing. It can also be useful  
for those SMEs that need to start conducting  
Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIA).  
Access Gestiona_EIPD  
Impact Assessment  
Risk Analysis  
?