


The General Data Protection Regulation (better known by the acronym GDPR) is a key part of consistent and modernized EU data protection legislation applicable in the European Union from 25 May 2018. Data protection is being approached more seriously than ever before, which has a far-reaching effect on various stakeholders and sectors. The purpose of this research is to gain insight into the challenges faced by SMEs in complying with the General Data Protection Regulation in their business and a clearer understanding of their needs. Based on the results of the research, the ARC project partners will develop guidelines and various educational materials tailored to the specific needs of micro, medium and small entrepreneurs.
Micro, medium and small entrepreneurs, please fill in the survey at the link Survey for medium and small entrepreneurs - GDPR.
A number of stakeholders in the overall concept of personal data protection, with a special focus on SMEs, consider that they do not have enough information on the requirements of the General Regulation or that they do not have enough support to comply with new data protection rules.
In order to provide the best possible support to SMEs in complying with the General Regulation, the Personal Data Protection Agency in cooperation with the Data Protection Commission of the Republic of Ireland and the University of Vrije in Brussels has launched the ARC (Awareness raising campaign for small and medium enterprises) project. ) - data protection awareness campaign for medium and small entrepreneurs https://arc-rec-project.eu/naslovna/. The project is co-financed by the EU program "Rights, Equality and Citizenship".
The survey is anonymous and the results of the survey will be based on aggregated data. The information that will be collected through this survey will not be used by personal data protection authorities for the purpose of exercising their investigative and corrective powers.
It is important to note: If you process personal data, you are obliged to apply the General Data Protection Regulation. The rules on personal data protection also apply to personal data of employees. You may feel that you are not processing personal data, but the storage of personal data itself, e.g. in a file on a computer is considered the processing of personal data.
We ask you to be as objective as possible when answering the questions, so that we can create relevant guides, guidelines and educational materials based on your answers that reflect the real situation and needs of micro, medium and small entrepreneurs.

