DECALOGUE FOR THE ADAPTATION TO THE GDPR OF PRIVACY POLICIES ON THE INTERNET

SEPTEMBER 2018

DECALOGUE FOR THE ADAPTATION TO THE GDPR OF PRIVACY POLICIES ON THE INTERNET

1) Who processes the data? Information must be provided regarding the identity and contact details of the data controller and their representative, along with the contact details of the Data Protection Officer (DPO), if one is appointed. To contact the data controller or the DPO, it is most appropriate to provide an email address or enable an electronic form.

2) For what purpose is the data processed and what is the legal basis that legitimizes the processing? It is necessary to differentiate, in addition to the purposes of processing the personal data of the data subject, what the legal basis is that legitimizes each processing activity. When the processing of data is based on the satisfaction of legitimate interests, it must also be indicated what those interests are, without a generic mention of "legitimate interest" or the use of an abstract formula ("to get to know you better") being sufficient.

3) Consent. When a request for consent is included in the data collection form, it must be distinguished from the rest of the relationship between the data subject and the data controller. It is not sufficient to accept the conditions of the privacy policy as a whole. Silence, pre-checked boxes, or inaction do not constitute consent; a blank box (or similar) must be available to be checked for each purpose of processing, although they can be grouped into related purposes. It should be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it.

4) How long are the data retained? Clear information must be provided regarding the period during which personal data will be retained or the criteria used to determine that period. The data subject should be given a rough idea of the period established by legislation, or indicate the applicable regulations, or provide information that allows them to know and calculate how long their personal data will be retained.

5) What rights exist and how can they be exercised? The data subject must be informed about the existence of their rights. To exercise those rights, it is recommended to provide an email address or an electronic form. It would be desirable to explain what each right consists of and the procedure for exercising it.

6) To whom are the data transferred? If the data controller intends to transfer the collected personal data, they must detail who the recipients or categories of recipients of this data will be.

DECALOGUE FOR THE ADAPTATION TO THE GDPR OF PRIVACY POLICIES ON THE INTERNET

SEPTEMBER 2018

7) What data is mandatory? The data subject must be informed if they have a legal or contractual obligation to provide personal data, or if it is a necessary requirement to enter into a contract, or if the data subject is obliged to provide their personal data. Additionally, in such cases, the possible consequences of not providing such data must be explained. It is insufficient to be unable to complete the desired action if the requested personal data is not provided.

8) Are automated decisions made? If automated decisions are made, including profiling, the existence of these decisions must be disclosed, along with clear and simple information about the logic applied, as well as the significance and expected consequences of this processing for the data subject.

9) Are there international data transfers? If there is an intention to transfer personal data to third countries, the data subject must be informed about the existence of adequacy decisions, guarantees, binding corporate rules, or specific applicable situations. It is not sufficient to use generic phrases such as "adequate guarantees," and the procedure for obtaining a copy of these or for which they were provided must also be explained.

10) How should the information be presented? This information regarding the processing of personal data must be provided to the data subject in a clear and concise manner, considering that the ultimate goal is for the user to make informed decisions about the use of their personal data. To this end, it is recommended to provide it in a single document or in the same location on the website and to adopt a layered or tiered information model, so that the data subject is presented with a reduced basic information and more detailed additional information. In the event that consent is requested from the data subject for the processing of their data, it is suggested to include the basic information related to this request in the same form in which consent is obtained. Furthermore, all information provided to the data subject must be accurate, and the extent of the explanations should be proportionate, so as not to discourage reading and understanding by the affected party. To achieve this, it is also recommended to use an average font size and organize the information into paragraphs or sections that facilitate comprehension.

For more information, the Spanish Data Protection Agency provides companies and professionals (data controllers or processors) with the free tool Facilita (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html), in case of processing data of low risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals. It should be noted that the Facilita tool is an aid, and therefore, the resulting documentation must be adapted and updated to the situation of the processing carried out in your entity. The obtaining of documents does not imply automatic compliance with the GDPR.