1/14

 File No.: PS/00089/2022

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On February 23, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against FREE SUN ENERGY
SL (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: PS/00089/2022

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated March 28, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against FREE SUN ENERGY S.L. with NIF B67572669 (in
hereafter, the party claimed).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

An email has been received informing you that your
electronic invoice, but the invoice you receive is that of another client, providing all your
data, name, surnames, address, NIF, your consumption data, prices and amount.
Enclosed with your claim:
- Printing of email dated March 3, 2021 sent by
***EMAIL.1 to ***EMAIL.2 (hereinafter, the claimant's email) in which
indicates that the invoice is attached.

- Copy of a "Free energy by NACE" invoice dated 02/25/2021 that the
claimant indicates that it appeared as an attachment to the previous email. on this bill
a person who is not the claimant appears as the owner.

The information that appears on this invoice, among others, is the following: name and
surnames of the owner, NIF, supply address, CUPS, access rate, number of
meter, payment method, consumption data and IBAN without the last four digits.

- Printing of email dated March 26, 2021 sent by email
of the claimant to ***EMAIL.3 in which he informs that he has received the invoice from
another client and requests to exercise their right of article 15 of organic law 3/2018 (which
is the right of deletion) because you have received the invoice from another customer.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 05/16/2021 as recorded in the
acknowledgment of receipt that works in the file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

No response has been received to this transfer letter.

THIRD: On July 23, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

On February 22, 2022, the respondent entity submits the following
manifestations:

The complaining party received the mail dated March 3, 2021 indicating in its
claim due to an error in the automatic assignment of the identifier of
invoices, which generated two invoices with the same identifier for two clients and CUPS
different.

The origin of the incident is in the update of the application that performs the
billing functions, which repeated some billing numbers until they were
detected the incident and it was solved by taking action on the database.

This incident was not identified as a security breach until the
transfer of this claim and, for this reason, the delegate of
data protection nor was its scope analyzed to assess the notification to the
interested parties or the AEPD.

The respondent entity considers that the security measures implemented by
PARTNERTEC S.L., which is the company that provides the CRM software service
(Customer Relationship Management or Customer Relationship Management), despite
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

be adequate, they did not serve to prevent the incident because it was caused by a
change in the application.

A software license contract is provided that includes the implementation, integration and
hosting between PARTNERTC S.L. and VISALIA ENERGÍA S.L.U. dated May 14,
2019, and confidentiality agreement between them dated June 22, 2018. And
it is indicated that this contract applies to FREE ENERGÍA as it is a group company
business VISALIA ENERGÍA S.L.U.

The respondent entity states that after evaluating this incident, it considers that
there is a risk to the rights and freedoms of those affected, and that there is no record of the
use of the data by third parties apart from the presentation of this claim
before the AEPD.

The respondent entity notes that there is no record of other incidents
Similar.

Finally attached print email dated February 17, 2022
sent by ***EMAIL.2 to the claimant's email with an attached document, which is
indicates that it has the following content:

“In response to your request for data protection, we inform you that, in accordance with
with the same, FREE ENERGÍA has proceeded to process the deletion of your data
personal.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, and in accordance with the provisions of article 17.3
RDPG, we will proceed to keep your data for the fulfillment of the obligations
legal that may arise from your legal relationship with the company, as well as in your
case, comply with judicial requirements.

For all these reasons, and given that FREE ENERGÍA wants to scrupulously respect the
exercise of your rights, we inform you that we remain at your disposal to
Any clarification you need."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

The principles relating to the processing of personal data are regulated in the
Article 5 of the RGPD where it is established that “personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party (“lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
longer than necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

Personal data may be kept for longer periods provided that it is
processed exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1,
without prejudice to the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures that
This Regulation is imposed in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
interested party (“limitation of the retention period”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of
section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

Article 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe
after three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

III

Security in the processing of personal data is regulated in article 32 of the
RGPD where the following is established:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of probability
variable and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the responsible
The controller and the data processor will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures.
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes
yeah, among others:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken
ta the risks that the treatment of data presents, in particular as a consequence
of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data transmitted
stored, stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access
two to said data.

3. Adherence to a code of conduct approved under article 40 or to a mechanism
certification body approved under article 42 may serve as an element for
demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
Article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
Any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and having
access to personal data can only process said data following instructions
of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of Union Law or
member states.”

Article 73.f) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered serious
has:

“According to article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they will be considered serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after two years.
of the articles mentioned therein, and in particular the following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

IV

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time, and
without prejudice to what results from the instruction of this sanctioning procedure,
considers that the claimed entity when sending by email an invoice from another
client to the claimant, where personal data such as name and surnames are included
of the holder, NIF, supply address, CUPS, access rate, meter number,
form of payment, consumption data and IBAN without the last four digits, it is
violating the confidentiality required in the processing of personal data, and with
This violates article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs the principle of integrity and
confidentiality, so that the data is treated in such a way as to guarantee a
adequate security of personal data, including protection against
unauthorized or unlawful treatment and against loss, destruction or accidental damage,
through the application of appropriate technical or organizational measures.

It should also be noted that the entity claimed has stated that this
incident was not identified as a security breach until transfer was received
of this claim and, for this reason, the data protection officer was not informed.
data nor was its scope analyzed to assess the notification to the interested parties or to the
AEPD.

Likewise, the respondent entity considers that the security measures implemented
by PARTNERTEC S.L., which is the company that provides the CRM software service
(Customer Relationship Management or Customer Relationship Management), despite
be adequate, they did not serve to prevent the incident because it was caused by a
change in the application.

The respondent entity considers that there is no risk to the rights and freedoms
of those affected, and that there is no record of the use of the data by third parties apart from the
presentation of this claim before the AEPD.

Despite what has been indicated, this Agency considers that the existence of a single case is
sufficient to denote that the security measures of the claimed entity were not
adequate at the time of the occurrence of the incident that is the subject of the claim and must

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

be improved because it is confirmed that they have not been sufficient to avoid the
reported facts.

Thus, this Agency considers that the entity claimed, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction, has violated articles 5.1 f) and 32 of the RGPD, by violating the
principle of integrity and confidentiality, as well as not adopting measures of
security necessary to guarantee the protection of personal data
of your customers.

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each control authority will have
of all the following corrective powers indicated below:

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD, considering as
aggravating circumstance according to article 76.2 b) LOPDGDD, the relationship of the person responsible with the
treatment of personal data.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

.

7th

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, IT IS AGREED:

FIRST: START A SANCTION PROCEDURE against FREE SUN ENERGY S.L.,
with NIF B67572669, for the alleged infringement in accordance with the provisions of the
article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against FREE SUN ENERGY
S.L., with NIF B67572669, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the
RGPD, for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.4.a) of the GDPR.

THIRD: APPOINT B.B.B. and, as secretary, to (...), indicating
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection during the
investigation phase, as well as the report of previous Inspection actions.

FIFTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

A penalty of €5,000 (five thousand euros) would apply, for the infringement of article
5.1 f) of the RGPD, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

SIXTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations,
A penalty of €5,000 (five thousand euros) would apply, for the infringement of article
32 of the RGPD, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

SEVENTH: NOTIFY this agreement to FREE SUN ENERGY S.L., with NIF
B67572669, granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
this initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, each sanction would be established at €4,000, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
each sanction would be established at €4,000 and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of each penalty
would be set at 3,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above €4,000 or €3,000 each sanction, which would imply a total of
€8,000 or €6,000 respectively, you must make it effective by paying into the
account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the
concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading
of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it avails itself.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

935-260122

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

>>

SECOND: On April 11, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 6,000 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00089/2022, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to FREE SUN ENERGY S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-240122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

