GZ: DSB-D123.089/0002-DSB/2018 from 19.7.2018

[Note editor: names and companies, legal forms and product names, addresses (incl.
URLs, IP and email addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc., as well as their initials and
Abbreviations may be abbreviated and/or changed for reasons of pseudonymization.
Corrected obvious spelling, grammar, and punctuation errors.]

 
[Notice from DPA: Cross-border case; therefore assessment solely on

basis of the GDPR]

NOTICE

S P R U C H

The data protection authority decides on the data protection complaint of A*** Steuerberatungs GmbH

(appellant) of June 22, 2018 v. N*** Search LLC (first respondent) and v

the unspecified operator of the website "***info.at" (second respondent).

Violation of the right to erasure as follows:

- The complaint is rejected.

Legal basis: § 1 paragraph 3 and § 24 paragraph 1 of the Data Protection Act (DSG), Federal Law Gazette I No. 165/1999

idgF; Art. 1, Art. 4 Z 1 and Art. 77 Para. 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation

– GDPR), OJ No. L 119 p. 1.

REASON

A. Submissions of the parties and course of the proceedings

In a submission dated June 22, 2018, the complainant alleged a violation of the right to

Deletion. With regard to the complaint against the first respondent, it was stated that

on May 16, 2018, a request for deletion regarding a negative rating on N*** Search

Locations or N*** Search Business would have been provided. The deletion of the "1 star rating" would be

however, has not been carried out to date. Regarding the complaint against the

The second respondent stated that on his website http://www.***info.at/ an entry

to the complainant's company would exist. Contacting the operator

this website is not possible (comment by clerk: probably meant to process an application for

to provide deletion).

B. Subject of Complaint

In the present case, it must first be checked whether the complainant as a legal person

the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority within the meaning of Article 77 (1) GDPR or Section 24

DSG is accessible.

C. Findings of Facts

The complainant is a legal entity (limited liability company – GmbH). she

brought a complaint on June 22, 2018 regarding violation of the right to erasure

Entries in N*** Search Maps or N*** Search Business and concerning entries on the website

http://www.***info.at/, which explicitly refer to the complainant as a legal entity.

Assessment of evidence: The findings made are based on the submissions of the complainant

dated June 22, 2018.

D. In legal terms it follows that:

D. 1 Applicable legislation

§ 1 para. 3 DSG reads including the title (emphasis added by the data protection authority):

(constitutional provision)

fundamental right to data protection

(3) Everyone has, insofar as they have personal data relating to the automated
Processing or for processing in manually, ie. files managed without automation support
are determined in accordance with statutory provisions

 

1. the right to information about who processes which data about him, where the data comes from and what it is used for,

in particular, to whom they are transmitted;

2. the right to correct inaccurate data and the right to erase inadmissibly

processed data.
 

Section 24 (1) DSG reads including the title (emphasis added by the data protection authority):

Complaint to the data protection authority

Section 24. (1) Every data subject has the right to lodge a complaint with the data protection authority if they

is of the opinion that the processing of personal data concerning them violates the GDPR
or violates § 1 or Article 2, Part 1.

 

Art. 1 GDPR reads including the title (emphasis added by the data protection authority):

article 1

subject and goals

(1) This Ordinance contains provisions for the protection of natural persons during processing
personal data and the free movement of such data.

(2) This Regulation protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and
in particular their right to protection of personal data.

(3) The free movement of personal data in the Union may for reasons of protection of natural
individuals are neither restricted nor prohibited from processing personal data.

 

Art. 4 Z 1 GDPR reads including the heading (emphasis added by the data protection authority):

Article 4

definitions

For the purposes of this Regulation, the term means:

1. “Personal Data” any information relating to an identified or identifiable

natural person (hereinafter "data subject"); as identifiable becomes a natural
person who, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of assignment to an identifier such as a
name, to an identification number, to location data, to an online identifier or to a or
several special characteristics expressing the physical, physiological, genetic,
psychological, economic, cultural or social identity of this natural person,
can be identified;

 

Art. 77 Para. 1 GDPR reads including the title (emphasis added by the data protection authority):

Article 77

Right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority

(1) Without prejudice to any other administrative or
judicial remedy, the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority, in particular in the
Member State of their place of residence, place of work or place of the alleged infringement if
the data subject believes that the processing of personal data concerning them
data violates this regulation.

 

D. 2 In substance

 

According to § 1 paragraph 3 DSG idgF everyone has the in Z 2 leg. cit. stated right to erasure

unlawfully processed data. According to the legal definition according to § 4 Z 3 DSG 2000 as amended

Federal Law Gazette I No. 83/2013, a legal entity (including the complainant as a GmbH) fell under the

term "affected". The scope of the GDPR, which has been in force since May 25, 2018, is exhausted

but expressly on the protection of natural persons:

The definition of "data subject" in Art. 4 Z 1 GDPR refers to an "identified or

identifiable natural persons”. Against this background, the right to lodge a complaint with a

Supervisory authority according to Art. 77 Para. 1 of a legal person not accessible, since here too

Right of appeal of an affected and thus natural person is turned off.

Furthermore, it should be pointed out that according to § 1 Para. 3 DSG the right to deletion is inadmissible

processed data according to Z 2 leg. cit. in accordance with statutory provisions. It is about

in this case, therefore, a design mandate that is contained in the corresponding implementation provision in § 27

DSG 2000 as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 83/2013 for the right to erasure has been fulfilled.

However, with the new Data Protection Act (DSG) as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 24/2018, there is no corresponding

Implementation provisions no longer available. Rather, the provisions of the immediately effective

GDPR (for the right to erasure: Art. 12 in conjunction with Art. 17), which, however, like

executed do not provide for any possibility of appeal for legal persons. distant would one

Interpretation of Section 1 (3) DSG to the effect that legal entities also have the right to erasure

is accessible, § 24 para. 1 DSG assumes content that violates Union law.

D. 3 result

Since the complainant lodged a complaint regarding violation of the right to erasure and

the data to be deleted refer explicitly to the complainant as a legal entity (GmbH),

and because an entity is not a data subject raising a privacy complaint

can, was to be decided in the result according to the verdict.

