1/5

 File No.: EXP202201837

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party), dated February 9
of 2022, filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The
claim is directed against D. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the part
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system located in CALLE
*** ADDRESS.1, SAX, ALICANTE, there are indications of possible non-compliance
of the provisions of Article 5.1.c) of the General Data Protection Regulation
(hereinafter, GDPR).

The reasons for the claim are the following:

The SAX CITY COUNCIL sends a Report, made by the POLICE
PREMISES OF SAX, dated January 27, 2022, which shows that
the claimant denounced, before Agents of said body, the existence of a
video surveillance camera installed on the facade of the house on the
claimed, which is oriented to the public thoroughfare, without authorization
administration for this, verifying the acting Agents the presence of said
camera.

The documents provided are:
- Reports made by the FFCCSE.
- Photo report.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on February 28, 2022, as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

No response has been received to this letter of transfer.

THIRD: On April 12, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FOURTH: On June 30, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
pursuant to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged
infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a pleading in which, in summary,
stated that:

That the cameras referred to in the aforementioned file are completely
fictitious, they have simply been placed as a deterrent due to the continuous
graffiti and attacks suffered by the property owned by my client by
of young people who meet in the park next to the house, and who due to consumption
of alcohol and other substances because it seems to be not finding greater fun than the
tarnishing of real estate, and that have given rise to lawsuits that are not at all
pleasant for its inhabitants. Sax Local Police are informed
from the fact that they are dummy cameras. However, they sent photographs that there were some
cameras on the facade, but they forgot to include the detail that they are fictitious. I attach
email where the Local Police responds to my principal when he requests to be able to obtain
report to be forwarded to you as the cameras are not real.
If you require proof that certifies the fiction of said cameras, we are
willing to contribute. Either through a notarial deed, or by any other
procedure that they consider of sufficient validity. Since the Sax Local Police, not
certifies it.

SIXTH: On September 30, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing to the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency the file
of the claim filed against D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for the infringement of the
Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

The proposed resolution was notified on November 28, 2022, and
After the period granted to make claims has elapsed, no claims have been made to said
proposal.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Report, made by the SAX LOCAL POLICE, dated January 27
of 2022, in which it is revealed that the complaining party denounced, before
Agents of said body, the existence of a video surveillance camera installed in
the facade of the house of the claimed part, which is oriented to the road
without administrative authorization to do so, verifying the Agents
acting the presence of said camera.

SECOND: The lawyer for the defendant affirms that the chambers to which
alludes to in the aforementioned file are totally fictitious, they have simply been

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

placed as a deterrent measure due to the continuous graffiti and attacks that
the property owned by his principal has suffered from young people who gather
in the park next to the house.
The Sax Local Police are informed of the fact that they are dummy cameras.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Response Allegations

In response to the allegations presented by the claimed party, it should be noted that
following:

Once the allegations of the claimed party have been examined, the allegations and the
Statements by the lawyer for the defendant stating that the cameras are
fictitious

It can be concluded that we are dealing with a non-operative system and that it has not been
produced data processing, so the file proceeds.

It should be remembered that "the data that is processed through the
video surveillance will be processed for the purpose that motivated the installation of the
itself and which is linked to guaranteeing the safety of people, goods and
facilities".

II

Presumption of innocence

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the charges has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in them of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
way more favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning, and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of ius puniendi, in its various manifestations, is conditioned to the
game of evidence and an adversarial procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charges or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the accuser, without
that no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the body
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the penal system, and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TC 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right, in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the set of evidence and a procedure
contradictory in which one's positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no sanction may be imposed based on the
guilt of the accused, if there is no probative activity that, in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TC Auto 3-12-81).

IV.

Conclusion

In accordance with the foregoing, it has not been proven that the device in question
was producing data processing, which is why it is appropriate to agree on the
Archive of this procedure.

The parties are reminded that this Agency should not be instrumentalized in
issues outside its jurisdictional framework, owing the rest of the issues, in its
case, be transferred to the pertinent judicial instances, where they may
present the questions they deem necessary.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure, since there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction within the framework of the regulations
in force regarding data protection.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to D. B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

938-181022

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

