1/22

 Procedure No.: PS/00027/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and in

based on the following

BACKGROUND

 : On 05/22/2018, a claim from A.A.A. against
FIRST
 
PROVINCIAL COMMISSIONER OF *** LOCATION.1 OF THE NATIONAL POLICE CORPS
for the use of images from the video surveillance system of the Police Station to initiate a
disciplinary procedure, with diversion of the system's own purpose and without there being
been informed that said device could be used for said purpose, in addition
of the lack of proportionality in terms of its use.

The claimant, Inspector of the CNP, is *** POSITION 1 of a group of police officers of the
***BRIGADA.1 of the Police Station of ***LOCALIDAD.1, declares that it performs its functions
rotating shifts and in uniform attached to the Citizen Security Brigade. The night
on ***DATE.1 was on duty and at 11:30 p.m. Inspector ***POST.2 from the
Provincial Citizen Security Brigade, B.B.B. with ***POSITION.1 (head of the
Police station). At that time, the policemen were lending themselves to dinner, the claimant wearing a
black fleece over the uniform, due to the cold in the quarters. Captured
images by the detainee surveillance system of the Police Station in which he appears as
mentioned, the images have been used to instruct him in a disciplinary procedure.
The claimant clarifies that there was no detainee that night, and that the images were
requested by the Inspector ***POSITION.2 on ***DATE.3 to “be able to sanction the
claimant for wearing the uniform incorrectly”, to the official in charge of the
telecommunications that proceeded on ***DATE.2 and that the use thereof for this purpose
is not appropriate, since there were also other officials present who could have
testified about the event.

There is the instruction of the Ministry of the Interior 12/2015 that indicates that in the
detention centers must have a video surveillance system to guarantee the
physical security of persons deprived of liberty and officials who exercise their
custody.

 

Provides partial copy (crossed out some ends to make it impossible to read

  Record of statement given by the Inspector *** POSITION 2,

complete) of:
 B.B.B. of
1)
***DATE.3, as "denounced", "proceedings ***PROCEEDINGS.1 in relation to the complaint
of “workplace harassment” requested by the claimant. In said statement, from which it follows that
is related to legal proceedings, the Inspector states that he saw the claimant the
night of ***DATE.1 because he went to deliver the denial of a permit and saw him without the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/22

regulatory uniformity, and admonished him, and in order to prove it, since it was
repeat offender, the next morning he asked the person in charge of telecommunications for a copy of
the images obtained by the cameras near the lobby of his office, to
check whether he had changed his behavior and complied with the order. “However
subsequently caused sick leave, which is why no action has been processed
disciplinary”.

two)
Declaration record (there are also numerous paragraphs crossed out in the document in the
same matter) of the Commissioner, as a witness, stating that the Inspector
POSITION.2 commented on the lack of uniformity of the claimant and the next morning the
The Inspector informed him that he had requested the recording of the cameras in the hall of the
Police Station in order to check if he had finally complied with the order.
3)
Record of the declaration of the person in charge of telecommunications, as a witness, who
indicates that it received the order to obtain a copy of the images of the time slot between 0
hours and 4 hours on *** DATE.2, "knowing later that the object of said
The request was to check if ***POSITION.1 was wearing the regulation uniform”.

Provide a copy of the recording delivery certificate of ***DATE.2 at the request of the

Inspector POST.2

 : In view of the facts denounced, by the General Subdirectorate of
SECOND
 
Data Inspection, the complaint is transferred to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE POLICE,
to send this Agency the relevant documentation related to the procedures
carried out by the person in charge of treatment, in relation to the facts exposed
in the claim, including in particular the following information:

Detail of the measures adopted by the person in charge to solve the incident and

Clear specification of the causes that have motivated the incidence that has given rise to

1.
gar to the claim.
two.
to avoid the occurrence of new incidents such as the one exposed.
3.
Documentation proving that, in accordance with the provisions of article 12 of the
RGPD, the appropriate measures have been taken to facilitate the exercise of their rights by the affected party.
rights under articles 15 to 22, including a full copy of communications
tions sent in response to requests made.
Four.
informed about the course and outcome of this claim.

Documentation proving that the claimant's right to be

The General Directorate of the Police, dated 08/03/2018 and on the use of

video surveillance cameras of the Provincial Police Station of ***LOCALIDAD.1, states

a)

Attached is the report of the Informatics and Communications Unit of the
Central Logistics and Innovation Headquarters of the General Directorate of the Police. in it
reports that "The management of the CCTV equipment installed in the cells of the
Police station of ***LOCALIDAD.1 is carried out from the police station itself” and continues to give
details of that system.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/22

THIRD: On 09/05/2018, the respondent indicates that he has not received a response by
part of the data protection delegate, and on 12/5/2018 another letter in which he indicates that
He has not received a response from the AEPD.

The same type of writing from the complainant about which he has not received a response has

entry on 02/21/2019 and 03/13/2019.

On 03/04/2019, a letter was sent informing him of the status of his complaint.

FOURTH: On 04/01/2019 it was agreed by the director of the AEPD:
“initiate sanctioning procedure to the Ministry of the Interior-General Directorate of the Police
(Provincial Police Station of *** LOCATION.1 of the National Police Corps) for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, infringement typified in article 83.5 a) of the
GDPR.

In the shipment made through the nofitic@ platform, it is certified:

“The Support service of the Electronic Notifications Service and Electronic Address
Enabled CERTIFIES:

- That the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Administration (through the Secretariat
General Administration Digital) is currently the owner of the Notification Service
Electronic (SNE) and Authorized Electronic Address (DEH) in accordance with the Order
PRE/878/2010 and Royal Decree 769/2017, of July 28. The provider of said service
since June 26, 2015 it is the National Currency and Stamp Factory-Royal House of the
Currency (FNMT-RCM), according to the current Management Assignment of the Ministry of Finance
and Public Administrations.
-That the notification was sent through said service:
Reference: 94162555ca5cd5c8ab84 Acting Administration: Spanish Agency for
Data Protection (AEPD) Owner: GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE POLICE-SERVICES
CONTROL UNITS-MIR - S2816015H

Subject: "Notification available in the Folder or DEH of the indicated holder" with the following
result:

Availability date: 04/07/2019 05:00:38
Automatic rejection date: 04/15/2019 00:00:00
Automatic rejection generally occurs after ten days have elapsed.
from its availability for access according to paragraph 2, article 43, of
Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public administrations. And in particular, after the term established by the
Administration acting in accordance with the specific legal regulations applicable to
app.

The LPCAP adds in its article 14 "Right and obligation to relate

electronically with the Public Administrations “

2. In any case, they will be obliged to interact through electronic means with the
Public Administrations to carry out any process of a procedure
administrative, at least the following subjects:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/22

a) Legal persons.”

And it is specified in article 41 "General conditions for the practice of
notifications “1. Notifications will preferably be made by means
electronic and, in any case, when the interested party is obliged to receive them by this means.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrations may make notifications by
non-electronic means in the following cases:

When the notification is made on the occasion of the spontaneous appearance of the
a)
interested party or his representative at the registration assistance offices and request
communication or personal notification at that time.

When, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the administrative action, it is necessary
b)
practice notification by direct delivery of a public employee of the Administration
notifier.

Regardless of the means used, notifications will always be valid.
that allow proof of its sending or making available, of the reception or
access by the interested party or their representative, their dates and times, the full content,
and the true identity of the sender and recipient thereof. The accreditation of the
notification made will be incorporated into the file.”

As a consequence, the notification of the agreement is understood to have been produced with all

legal effects.

FIFTH: A copy of instruction 1/2012 of 10/1/2015 is obtained from the website, (numbered
as 12/2015) of the Secretary of State for Security, (SES) approving the
"protocol of action in the areas of custody of detainees of the forces and bodies of
state security". It is incorporated into the file as associated object 2 in the
application that manages it.

In the same figure: 2 f. Video surveillance: The detention centers of the Armed Forces and
State Security Bodies will have video surveillance systems with recording
that contribute to guaranteeing the physical integrity and security of persons deprived of
liberty and that of the police officers exercising their custody. This recording must
be permanently active, regardless of whether the agents in charge of the
custody should maintain permanent control of the cells through the means
of video surveillance.

Video surveillance systems will be governed by the provisions of the Organic Law
4/1997, of 4/08, which regulates the use of video cameras by the Forces and
Security forces in public places. In no case may they allow the
visualization of the toilet areas, in order to preserve the privacy of people
arrested.

A copy of instruction no. 4/2018, signed on 05/14/2018 of
the SES approving the update of the "action protocol in the areas of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/22

custody of detainees of the State Security Forces and Bodies" and is left without
effect instruction 12/2015. It is incorporated into the file as associated object 1 in
the application that manages it.

 Figure in point 2.f):

“Video surveillance: The detention centers of the Security Forces and Bodies of the
State will have video surveillance and recording systems that allow viewing
in the light conditions of their cabins, to guarantee the physical integrity and
security of persons deprived of liberty and that of police officers who
exercise their custody.

This recording must be permanently active, regardless of whether
officers in charge of custody should maintain control of the dungeons at
through video surveillance.

The recordings will be kept for thirty days from their capture.
Once this period has expired, they will be destroyed, unless there is an incident in
the course of a detainee's custody or are related to criminal offenses
or administrative serious or very serious in matters of public security; with a
ongoing police investigation or open judicial or administrative proceedings. In
In these cases, the recording will be kept at the disposal of the competent Authorities.”

SIXTH: Within the testing period, the claimant is notified on 06/24/2019 of the start
of the trial period, requesting:

-Sketch of the Police Station of ***LOCATION.1 in which the events took place, in the
to see the situation in which the camera that was used to collect the
image of the claimant and type of room in which the images were collected and selected
images. Color image of the field collected by said camera, identifying the spaces
towards which it focuses.

-Indicate whether it has been delivered to the officials who provide custody services and
custody of detainees on occasion a guide explaining the use or purpose of these
chambers, and if they have been informed that they may be subject to disciplinary action, in what
assumptions, how they have been informed. Specifically the claimant.

-If you know if the claimant has been sanctioned, copy of the resolution, copy of
documents that work in the procedure, and if you are aware of your administrative challenge and
(/or judicial).

-Position/hierarchy held by the person requesting the extraction of the
images, and if the General Directorate of the Police has issued any instructions on the
request for data from video surveillance systems, procedures to follow in the request
of said data, registration of requests, who is responsible for deciding whether they are delivered or not,
or if it deems its preparation convenient.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/22

- If at a disciplinary level, the person who requested the extraction of images can initiate

initiate a disciplinary procedure, procedures that must be carried out.

A copy of the start-up agreement is sent to you so that you can read and
knowledge and with what is requested, contribute what is requested and allege what in your case
deem appropriate.

Received the shipment, dated 07/08/2019, the respondent presents a letter in which without

responding to what is questioned, provides:

a)

report prepared by the Provincial Commissioner of
 

 ***LOCATION.1, subject;
“remitting report on the use of CCTV for disciplinary purposes” signed by the Inspector
POSITION.2 Mr. B.B.B., on 01/2/2019. In it he highlights:

-“At 11:30 p.m. last ***DATE.1 appeared in the office of the
***POSITION.1 of the police station…(claimant) checking according to the same
The inspector acknowledges in his statement that he was in civilian clothes, two
hours after the service had started" he reproached him for the fact and ordered him to
to put on the uniform”, “he was aware that the person mentioned was not wearing the
uniform during night shifts but lacked evidence” “In anticipation of
who failed to comply with the order to render his uniformed service again, requested
formally to the person in charge of the CCTV system who would view the images of the
night of ***DATE.1 from 11:45 p.m. to check if it had been changed and in
Otherwise, extract the precise images to inform the Commissioner of
said fact and to be able to prove it”. “The Inspector -claimant- was discharged
from ***DATE.4 and then reported him for workplace harassment and for
infractions of LO 4/2010 of the regulation of disciplinary regime for infringing the
legislation on the use of video cameras. “Both complaints were archived” by
the administrative dispatch unit. In the writing it indicates that it is about cameras
whose images are obtained and used by the security forces and bodies of the
state, and that are governed by the provisions on the matter. Point out the reports
of 2009 numbers 286, 472 of the AEPD on the possibility of using recordings
of the CCTV system installed in police offices as means of evidence
to demand disciplinary responsibilities, it is indicated that "it lacks competences
to assess what evidence may or may not be brought to a disciplinary proceeding”
Indicates that the purpose of the system is the security of the police station and protection
interior and exterior of the building, so I consider that although "they are installed
for this purpose, this does not exclude its use to be able to verify and verify facts object
of an investigation, so it was relevant, legal, justified and proportionate
use it to test and thus be able to purge disciplinary responsibilities if the
there would be”, was limited to some cameras whose purpose is public safety and the
control of entries and exits of citizens, therefore including the hours of
provision of service "

Report number 286/2009 of the Legal Office is associated with the procedure
of the AEPD, signed by the State Attorney on 06/12/2009, found in the SIJ application
that manages said reports, which appears with the following literal:

Entry Ref. 177676/2009 (Trade Union Section S.E.P.-CV of the City Council of

Benidorm)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/22

Examined your request for a report, sent to this Legal Office, regarding the
query raised by the Trade Union Section S.E.P.-CV of the Benidorm City Council,
please let me know the following:

The consultation raises several questions related to the installation of systems
of video surveillance by the City Council of Benidorm, to check if they comply with the provisions
established in the Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Character Data.
ter Staff.

The first question asks whether the City Council has obtained authorization from the
Spanish Data Protection Agency to install the video surveillance system in the
local police building. On this point, it is reported that the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection lacks the powers to authorize video surveillance systems.
surveillance, being its competence to ensure that the processing of data derived from the
existence of such systems is in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999,
of December 13, Protection of Personal Data, and Instruction 1/2006,
of November 8 of this Agency.

However, we can point out that the aforementioned City Council notified and has registered
in the General Registry of Data Protection, a file of video surveillance cameras
of the Police, whose name and declared purpose is "Access control and surveillance of the
Police building” and “video surveillance”.

In the declaration of the aforementioned file, it is stated that the General Provision of
creation of the file was published in the Bulletin of the Province, with the number 00067 and date
of April 9, 2008.

Regarding the period of conservation of the images, taking into account the purpose
described in the Provision for creating the file, the Instruction
1/2006, of November 8, of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, on the treatment
processing of personal data for video surveillance purposes through camera systems
or video cameras where article 6 provides that "The data will be canceled in the
maximum period of one month from its capture.”

Regarding the term that the images can be kept, the Agency has ruled
mentioned in the report of July 3, 2008, regarding the foundation of said period, indicating
what

“Article 6 of instruction 1/2006, which regulates the term of conservation of
images is closely related to the provisions of article 4.5 of the
Organic Law 15/1999 that states the following "The data will be canceled when
have ceased to be necessary or relevant for the purpose for which they were intended.
collected or registered.”, said provision is reiterated in article 8.6 of the Re-
development regulation of the Organic Law. The Agency's criteria based on
said principle has been to understand that the images recorded to comply with the fi-
security purpose must be kept for a maximum of one month, one
Once this purpose has been fulfilled, they must be cancelled. Therefore, said term
remains in force after the entry into force of the Regulation since it does not oppose the
provisions contained therein.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/22

 Furthermore, it is necessary to point out that the term of one month that in
the Instruction is set to cancel the images, it is not arbitrary, since
It has been decided to follow the same criteria as that established in Organic Law 4/1997,
of August 4, which regulates the use of video cameras by the Armed Forces
and State Security Corps in public places, which in its article 8 points out
which “The recordings will be destroyed within a maximum period of one month from their
catchment".

 On the other hand, the instruction expressly states in article 6 that “the
data will be canceled within a maximum period of one month from its collection”, wants
This means that once this period has elapsed, the images must be
celadas, which implies the blocking of the same as it is established, the Or-
15/1999 that in article 16.3 states that "the cancellation will give rise to blocking
storage of the data, keeping it only at the disposal of the Administrations
Public authorities, Judges and Courts, for the attention of the possible responsibilities
des born of the treatment, during the term of prescription of these. Completed on
said period must proceed to the deletion.

The query also raises whether the omission of the duty to inform of the rights of
access, rectification, cancellation and opposition of the data makes the cameras illegal
flush In order for the installation of these cameras to comply with the provisions of the
data protection, compliance with certain requirements such as; the le-
quality of image processing. Article 6.1 of Organic Law 15/1999 to which
article 2 of Instruction 1/2006, establishes that "The treatment of data of
personal character will require the consent of the affected party, unless the Law provides otherwise.
stuff". What forces to resort to a Law that provides for the treatment of images without
bar the consent of the affected party.

In this sense, the Organic Law 2/1986, of March 13, of Forces and Corps of
Security in its article 11, regulates its functions stating that “1. The Forces and Bodies
The State Security post has the mission of protecting the free exercise of human rights.
and freedoms and guarantee citizen security through the performance of the following
functions: (...) c) Monitor and protect public buildings and facilities that require it”,
Consequently, we can conclude that Organic Law 2/1986 legitimizes the treatment of
the images you collect at police stations.

Likewise, the duty to inform must be complied with in accordance with the provisions of the
article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, and notify and register the file in the General Registry of
Data Protection. In addition to allowing the exercise of the rights referred to
articles 15 and following of Organic Law 15/1999, under the terms of article 5 of
The instruction. In the exercise of rights, specialties must be taken into account.
from article 23 of the Organic Law 15/1999, since the exceptions to the
rights of access, rectification and cancellation in the files for which it is responsible
the State Security Forces and Bodies.

Finally, it is considered if the recordings obtained through the video system
installed in the local police offices, they can be used as me-
god of evidence to demand disciplinary responsibilities from the police. On this point,
It should be noted that the Agency lacks the powers to assess what evidence or not
may be brought in a disciplinary proceeding.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/22

However, according to the purpose declared in the General Registry of Protection of
Data, the file created is to control and monitor access to the building, therefore, if the res-
disciplinary responsibilities, were derived from access to it (entry time and
exit by the police) they could be used, not being able to be used for
other types of purposes, which are not declared.

Lastly, in the event that the consultant considers the existence of a
action allegedly contrary to Organic Law 15/1999, you must address your complaint
before this same body, with the purpose of adopting the necessary measures to
in order to verify whether or not the opening of the corresponding sanctioning file proceeds
being so that article 37.1.g) of the Law attributes to this Agency the power to sanction-
ra in terms of data protection.

In any case, the allegations made by the complainant should contain the
supporting documentation of the actual reality of the facts. Said complaint must
be submitted in writing and address the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the terms
ments established in article 70 of the Law on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations
Public and common Administrative Procedure, must contain:

a)

b)
c)
d)

Name and surnames of the interested party and, where appropriate, of the person who represents him,
as well as the identification of the preferred means or the place that is indicated for
of notifications.
Facts, reasons and request in which the request is specified clearly.
Place and date.
Signature of the applicant or accreditation of the authenticity of his will expressed by
any medium.
Body, center or administrative unit to which it is addressed. (in your case it would be the sub-

and)
General Directorate of Data Inspection of this Agency”

Report 472/2009 of the State Attorney, of

10/20/2009:

Entry Ref. ***REFERENCE.1 (Foundation ***FOUNDATION.1)

“Having examined your request for a report, sent to this Legal Office, regarding the

query raised by the ***FUNDACIÓN.1, please inform you of the following:

The consultation raises several issues related to the issues of
video surveillance, to adapt its performance to both the Organic Law 15/1999, of 13
December, on the Protection of Personal Data, as well as the Regulation of
development of the same and the Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, on the treatment
of personal data for surveillance purposes through camera systems or
camcorders.

The first question refers to the obligation to keep the images blocked,
In this regard, it should be noted that the period of conservation of the images, according to the
Article 6 of Instruction 1/2008 that “The data will be canceled within the maximum period
one month from the time it was picked up.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/22

Regarding the term that the images can be kept, the Agency has ruled
mentioned in the report of July 3, 2008, regarding the foundation of said period, indicating
what

“Article 6 of instruction 1/2006, which regulates the term of conservation of
images is closely related to the provisions of article 4.5 of the
Organic Law 15/1999 that states the following "The data will be canceled when
have ceased to be necessary or relevant for the purpose for which they were intended.
collected or registered.”, said provision is reiterated in article 8.6 of the Re-
development regulation of the Organic Law. The Agency's criteria based on
said principle has been to understand that the images recorded to comply with the fi-
security purpose must be kept for a maximum of one month, one
Once this purpose has been fulfilled, they must be cancelled. Therefore, said term
remains in force after the entry into force of the Regulation since it does not oppose the
provisions contained therein.

 Furthermore, it is necessary to point out that the term of one month that in
the Instruction is set to cancel the images, it is not arbitrary, since
It has been decided to follow the same criteria as that established in Organic Law 4/1997,
of August 4, which regulates the use of video cameras by the Armed Forces
and State Security Corps in public places, which in its article 8 points out
which “The recordings will be destroyed within a maximum period of one month from their
catchment".

 On the other hand, the instruction expressly states in article 6 that “the
data will be canceled within a maximum period of one month from its collection”, wants
This means that once this period has elapsed, the images must be
canceled, which implies the blocking of the same as it is established, the Law
Organic 15/1999 that in article 16.3 states that "the cancellation will give rise to the
blocking of the data, keeping it only available to the
Public Administrations, Judges and Courts, for the attention of possible
responsibilities arising from the treatment, during the prescription period of
these. Once the aforementioned period has expired, the deletion must proceed.

 

On the other hand, the Development Regulation of the LOPD, approved by Royal Decree
1720/2007, of December 21, defines in its article 5.1. b) cancellation as
“Procedure by virtue of which the person in charge ceases to use the data. The
cancellation will imply the blocking of the data, consisting of the identification and reservation of
the same in order to prevent their treatment except for making them available to
Public Administrations, Judges and Courts, for the attention of possible
responsibilities arising from the treatment and only during the prescription period of
these responsibilities. Once this period has elapsed, the suppression of the
data."

Regarding the way to carry out the blockade, it was pointed out in this report
Agency of June 5, 2007 that "must be carried out in such a way that it is not possible to
access to the data by staff who routinely had such access, for example
example, the personnel who provide their services in the consulting center, limiting access to
a person with the maximum responsibility and by virtue of the existence of a requirement
judicial or administrative act to that effect. In this way, despite continuing the treatment of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/22

the data, access to them would be entirely restricted to the people to whom
which has been referenced."

As for the period of conservation of the blocked images, we can only
reiterate what was stated in the report attached by the consulting entity of 18
February 2009 in which it is stated "it is impossible to establish a taxative enumeration
of the same, fundamentally having to take into account, as already indicated,
previously, the prescription periods of the actions that could derive from
the legal relationship that links the consultant with his client, as well as those derived from the
tax regulations or the limitation period of three years, provided for in article 47.1 of
the Organic Law 15/1999 itself in relation to the behaviors constituting infringement
very serious."

And as for the last question raised, it is necessary to distinguish whether the regime of
recordings is made in digital format or not, because in the event that it is made in
digital port, there is an automated data processing, which implies the obligation to
comply with the basic level security measures provided for in article 94 of the Regulations.
development of the Organic Law 15/1999.”

b) Copy of the Report of the

 Subdirectorate General of Logistics and Innovation of

 

3/12/2018, recipient “data protection delegate. Technical Office”

It now speaks of the "video surveillance" file for the purpose of
“guarantee the interior and exterior protection of the CNP Commissioners and the buildings,
facilities and centers supervised by the same, Its use is aimed at the "security and
protection". The system is regulated by Internal Order 1865 of 11/30/2016 of the Ministry of
Interior by which the Order INT/1202/2011, of 4/05, which regulates the
personal data files of the Ministry of the Interior, BOE 12/12/2016. In the
single article indicates that both the new creation of the files that are contained as
the modification is governed by the LOPD and development regulations.

The file is created in it: "Video surveillance" of which the following stand out:

a.2) Purpose: Guarantee the internal and external security and protection of the Police Stations
of the National Police Corps and of the buildings, installations and centers supervised by the
same.

a.3) Intended uses: Security and protection.

b) Origin of the data:

b.1) Collective: People who are in video-monitored areas of Police Stations
of the National Police Corps or of the buildings, installations and centers supervised by the
same.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/22

b.2) Origin and collection procedure: Closed circuit television.

c) Basic file structure:

c.1) Description of the data:

Identification data: Image/voice.

c.2) Treatment system: Automated.

d) Planned data communications: judicial bodies, Public Prosecutor's Office and other ser-
vices of the National Police Corps for the exercise of legally entrusted functions.
as well as to other Security Forces and Bodies for the exercise of their functions.
protection of public security, in accordance with the provisions of article 22.2
of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, in compliance with the principles of collaboration
cooperation, mutual aid and reciprocal cooperation and information established by the Organic Law
nica 2/1986, of March 13.

e) Planned international data transfers to third countries: Not planned.

f) Body responsible for the file: Subdirectorate General for Logistics, calle Julián Gon-

zález Segador, no number, 28043 Madrid.

g) Service or Unit before which the rights of access, rectification,
tion, cancellation and opposition: General Secretariat of the Subdirectorate General for Logistics,
Julián González Segador street, no number, 28043 Madrid.

i) Basic, medium or high level of security that is required: High.

He adds that "Currently the telecommunications area of the
IT and communications has a procedure for the treatment of
video surveillance images where the following aspects are determined: "The security system
access control to the images, they consist of an alphanumeric key with two categories
of users: administrator with permissions to view and extract images and
Basic user with viewing permissions only. ICT delegates have the permits
of user administration and therefore for the extraction of images in all the
provincial commissioners of the CNP”

SEVENTH: On 09/18/2019, a response was given to the claimant's letter requesting
inform you of the status of the procedure, ask to be considered interested in it,
deciding to inform you of the end of the procedure for the purpose of consulting the website of the
resolution.

EIGHTH: On 11/18/2019, a resolution proposal was issued with the literal:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/22

“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the
with a warning to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE POLICE (MINISTRY OF THE
INTERIOR), for an infringement of Article 5. 1 b) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5
of the GDPR.”

The respondent presents allegations indicating that the events occurred before
the entry into force of the RGPD, and this is important because "During the period of validity of
the previous LOPD the Courts have maintained that the use of images from the
Police station cameras to check the correct functioning of the services
police cannot be considered an incompatible purpose prohibited by law, although
Its main use is the security of goods and people.

PROVEN FACTS

The Inspector ***PUESTO.2 of the Provincial Citizen Security Brigade of the
1)
commissioner of ***LOCALIDAD.1, Mr. B.B.B., observed on the night of ***DATE.1 that the
claimant, CNP Inspector and ***POST.1, is not properly uniformed, wearing
a black fleece jacket according to the claimant, being reprimanded by him and ordered to
properly uniformed, according to Inspector ***POSITION.2, leaving the
place. The next day, the Inspector ***POST.2, decides to verify if the claimant complied
your order and request a copy of the images from the cameras between 0 and 4 a.m.
***DATE.2. The extraction of the images is produced by personnel dedicated to
telecommunications in the same police station of ***LOCALIDAD.1, personnel who stated,
that no motive was contained or explained, knowing later that the object
of said request was to check if ***POSITION.1 was wearing the regulation uniform”. Nope
there is a written request, if any, to extract the images, and it is provided
copy of record delivery record of ***DATE.2, at the request of the Inspector
***POSITION.2

According to the claimant, on the night of ***DATE.1 there were no detainees

two)
in the comisary.

The Commissioner of the CNP of

 ***LOCATION.1 in which the
3)
claimant, has video surveillance cameras for the detainees' cells. I know
This recruitment is governed by the action protocol in the Detainee Custody Areas
of the State Security Forces and Bodies, instruction of the Secretary of State
of Security 4/2018, signed on 05/14/2018 and that leaves without effect the Instruction number
12/2015 of the Secretary of State for Security. It appears as an object that of “establishing
the rules of action of the personnel in charge of the custody of detainees … with the purpose of
to guarantee the rights of detainees and their safety and security
police."
 “The recordings will be kept for thirty days from their capture. One time
At the end of this period they will be destroyed, unless there is an incident in the
course of custody of a detainee or are related to criminal offenses or
serious or very serious administrative offenses in matters of public security; with a
ongoing police investigation or open judicial or administrative proceedings. In
In these cases, the recording will be kept at the disposal of the competent Authorities.”
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/22

Unlike the previous instruction, this one does not indicate that the
video surveillance will be governed by the provisions of Organic Law 4/1997, of 4/08, by which
the use of video cameras by the Security Forces and Bodies in
public places.

In the testing period, it is also indicated by the Commissioner of
4)
*** LOCATION.1 that has cameras for the security of the police station and protection
interior and exterior of the building and in the Report of the General Subdirectorate of Logistics and
Innovation of 3/12/2018, addressee “data protection delegate. Technical Office”
It is specified that these cameras are for the "purpose of" guaranteeing the interior protection and
exterior of the CNP Police Stations and of the buildings, installations and centers guarded by
the same. Its use is aimed at "safety and protection". To this system is applied the
LOPD, in accordance with the file creation order- Order INT/1202/2011, of 4/05,
by which the personal data files of the Ministry of the Interior are regulated,
BOE 12/12/2016

5)
The respondent has not specified, by not responding in evidence, with what type of
camera the images were obtained on the fulfillment of the uniformity by the
claimant, in what spaces were taken, to which of the two systems corresponds
(surveillance of cells or of the police station in general) and what protocol exists for requesting
pictures and delivery.

6)
None of the purposes of the data collection treatment of the two systems,
of video surveillance contemplate the use of their images for the purpose of verification of
behaviors, compliance with the internal regime, or disciplinary offenses that could
commit the agents, which was the purpose of the petition and extraction of those of the claimant the
night of ***DATE.2.

7)
In addition, it is accredited that the image request and its delivery to the Inspector
***POSITION.2, superior of the claimant is not, nor does it appear in any protocol that regulates the
issue, and only authorized persons must have access to the images.
expressly in some type of document or protocol that regulates the request for images,
reasons and documentation of those aspects.

8)
There is no evidence that disciplinary proceedings have been initiated or resolved against the
claimant or based on the lack of uniformity on the night of ***DATE.1, although if the
request of the images and their delivery.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016 on the protection of people
physical with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/22

your data (hereinafter GDPR); recognizes each control authority, and as established
established in art. 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data-
them and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the director of the
AEPD is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, given the lack of specification of the claim, by not specifying
with what type of camera or its location or regime are the images communicated by the
claimant, it can be deduced that there could be two types of cameras in the Police Station
where the events take place. The result is that whatever the system of
cameras employed, the extraction for the reasons that occurred and directly by the
first superior of the claimant, violates the RGPD in that it is not contemplated in
neither of the two systems the use of reprimand of irregular behaviors by the
Agents, and also does not appear regulated in your case who has to request the images.

On the one hand, the cameras that monitor the cells of the detainees, with their
of the Organic Law ***LAW.1 which regulates the use of video cameras
by the Security Forces and Bodies in public places, requires an authorization
prior issuance of a report by a collegiate body, and the "resolution by which
agrees the authorization must be motivated and referred in each case to the public place
concrete to be observed by the video cameras. Said resolution
It will also contain all the necessary limitations or conditions of use, in particular the
prohibition of taking sounds, except when there is a specific and precise risk, as well
such as those referring to the qualification of the persons in charge of the exploitation of the
system for processing images and sounds and the measures to be adopted to guarantee the
compliance with current legal provisions. Likewise, you must specify generically the
physical environment that can be recorded, the type of camera, its technical specifications
and the duration of the authorization, which will be valid for a maximum of one year, after which
term, its renewal must be requested.”

The following are indicated as authorization criteria to take into account:

"To authorize the
installation of video cameras will be taken into account, in accordance with the principle of
proportionality, the following criteria: ensure the protection of buildings and
public facilities and their accesses; safeguard useful facilities for the
national defense; verify violations of citizen security, and prevent the causation
of damage to persons and property.” Article 4

Article 6 outlines the "principles of use of video cameras:

1. The use of video cameras will be governed by the principle of proportionality,

in its double version of suitability and minimal intervention.

2. The suitability determines that the camcorder may only be used when it is
adequate, in a specific situation, for the maintenance of citizen security, of
in accordance with the provisions of this Law.

3. The minimum intervention requires weighing, in each case, between the purpose
intended and the possible affectation by the use of the video camera to the right to honor,
to the image itself and the intimacy of people.

4. The use of video cameras will require the existence of a reasonable risk for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/22

citizen security, in the case of fixed ones, or of a specific danger, in the case of
mobiles.

5. Video cameras may not be used to take images or sounds from inside the
the dwellings, nor of their lobbies, except with the consent of the owner or judicial authorization, nor
of the places included in article 1 of this Law when it is affected directly and
serious to the intimacy of people, nor to record conversations of
strictly private nature. The images and sounds obtained accidentally in
These cases must be destroyed immediately, by whoever is responsible for
its custody.

The space that these cameras have to focus on is related to the
mandatory existence of video surveillance cameras to observe and guarantee the
safety of detainees in police cells. This modality related to the
public safety does not seem directly related to the lack of uniformity of the
claimant public employee, who states, being the night of ***DATE.1 that before the
intense cold that exists in said Police Station, he wore a fleece over his uniform.

Therefore, by reason of the matter, nor those whose purpose is the surveillance of
detainees in cells, nor those installed in the police station, to which is applied
the LOPD, since May 2018 the RGPD, are likely to be used for the purpose of
that they have been, without having been previously informed of said purpose. To do this, you should first
having decided by the person responsible for the treatment, that the follow-up of the eventual
behaviors that can be disciplined through said means and modality of
video surveillance for the agents in the police station was undertaken with these means, an issue
that affects their labor rights and their privacy and proportionality should be assessed
and suitability of the system, or for what assumptions.

Instruction 1/201/2006, of 8/11 of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, on the processing of personal data for surveillance purposes through
camera or video camera systems, BOE 12/12 indicated in its preamble:

In connection with the installation of video camera systems, it will be necessary
weigh the legal rights protected. Therefore, all installations must respect the
principle of proportionality, which ultimately means, whenever possible,
adopt other less intrusive means to the privacy of people, in order to
prevent unwarranted interference with fundamental rights and freedoms.

In view of the lack of clarification by the complainant of the type of cameras with which
obtained the images, nothing contributed to what was requested in tests, it should be indicated that the use
of cameras or video cameras should not be the initial means to carry out functions
so that, from an objective point of view, the use of these systems
it must be proportional to the aim pursued, which in any case must be legitimate.

Regarding proportionality, despite being an indeterminate legal concept, the
Ruling of the Constitutional Court 207/1996 determines that it is "a requirement
common and constant for the constitutionality of any restrictive measure of rights
fundamental, among them those that suppose an interference in the rights to the integrity
physical and privacy, and more particularly of the restrictive measures of rights
principles adopted in the course of criminal proceedings is determined by the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/22

strict observance of the principle of proportionality'.

Its article 4 indicates:

1. In accordance with article 4 of Organic Law 15/1999 of December 13, of
Protection of Personal Data, the images will only be treated when they are
adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the scope and purposes
determined, legitimate and explicit, that have justified the installation of the cameras or
camcorders.”

Article 1 of the RGPD points out “This Regulation establishes the rules
relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the treatment of
personal data and the rules relating to the free movement of such data.

2. This Regulation protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of

natural persons and, in particular, their right to the protection of personal data.”

The art. 4.1 and . 2 of the RGPD indicates “1) “personal data”: all information about a
identified or identifiable natural person ("the interested party"); will be considered a natural person
identifiable person any person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in
by an identifier, such as a name, phone number,
identification, location data, an online identifier, or one or more elements
inherent to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of
said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or
no, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression
or destruction;

The video surveillance system in this case supposes an identification
directly from the person whose actions are collected when they are in your recording space.
In this case, the Commissioner had two different systems implemented:
video surveillance for the cells of detainees and the general for security of the
facilities, being the purpose different, otherwise none of them for the purpose
verification of behavior or repression of infractions of the agents.

 In this case, personal data are considered to be the appearance of the Agent,
identifiable, along with his clothing, relating whether the claimant had appropriated the
same clothing to the internal staff regulations, capturing as accreditation
irrefutable the obtaining of the images that focused that space between a section
differentiated schedule, which was selected by ***POSITION.2, which hours before had
seen and warned of the lack of uniformity, in order to sanction a fault.

The use of images in both systems, recording, conservation, extraction,
It is related to the safety of people, agents or facilities. However, in
In this case, they have been used in the workplace as a means of verification. The AEPD does not
pronounces on the validity of the images that will be provided to the procedure
disciplinary, but by the legitimacy and legality of the same in accordance with the regulations of
data protection and the treatment that is accredited is carried out with the data
personal of the affected.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/22

Article 18.4 of the Spanish Constitution indicates: “the law will limit the use of the
information technology to guarantee the honor and personal and family privacy of citizens and the
full exercise of their rights.

In accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court 254/1993 that initiates the
doctrine of the right to data protection: “…From all that has been said, it turns out that the content
of the fundamental right to data protection consists of a power of disposition and
control over personal data that empowers the person to decide which of those
data to provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or what this third party can
collect, and that also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data and
for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These powers of disposition and control
on personal data, which constitute part of the content of the fundamental right to
data protection are legally specified in the power to consent to the collection,
Obtaining and accessing personal data, their subsequent storage and
treatment, as well as its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the State or an individual.
And that right to consent to the knowledge and treatment, computerized or not, of the data
personal, requires as essential complements, on the one hand, the faculty of knowing
at all times who has these personal data and to what use they are
submitting, and, on the other hand, the power to oppose that possession and uses.”

As a conclusion of the two reports of the Legal Office of the AEPD alleged
by the claimed, it cannot be inferred that the video surveillance cameras for internal control
located in the Police Stations, whether they are ticket control, or of another type, which is not referred to
the reports refer, insofar as their purpose is the security of their facilities and their per-
personal, there is no extensive use for the purpose of correcting disciplinary behaviors of
its employees, whether they are police officers, or other types of personnel, such as control of the
claimant's uniform. With such data processing for that disciplinary purpose, it is affected
ta to the legal sphere of its staff, creating a means of verifying compliance
conduct without prior information that affects a fundamental right, without security
any legal entity in terms of its use, subjects authorized for the request, exaction, and de-
rights of the affected party of access, cancellation, conservation and non-manipulation, security,
etc.

Nor is it true that the LOPD enabled uses other than the intended purpose.
pia of the file or treatment. In addition, it is recalled that incompatible use is not sanctioned,
but a use for a purpose for which it was not reported, alien to the expectations of the
employees.

III

The RGPD, article 5.1.b) of the RGPD indicates:

     "1. The personal data will be:

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation")

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/22

Requirement for data processing to be in accordance with the provisions of the
regulation is that it is legitimized in the provisions of its article 6 and that it
adjustment to its principles of article 5. However, it is not possible to legitimize the processing of data
of video surveillance for purposes of verifying compliance with the internal regulations in the
employee consent. For this, it will be necessary to go to another legitimate base that
could be the control of compliance with established legal obligations, but as
previously pointed out, this would require assessing various elements and taking into account
various aspects, among others the proportionality of use, in this case of an order that
It occurred when he saw the Agent who was not properly uniformed, so that he would do it.

In this case, the images are treated with a purpose that is not the one foreseen by the
treatment operations established by the video surveillance systems of the
Police station.

The LOPD is applied, or the RGPD is applied, the basic principle breached, in case of
that the system was considered proportional to the ends and had been implemented, is that it
those affected, in this case the claimant, were informed of the use of the system, their
consequences and the rights that derive from it. The circumstance of not
having been done supposes, with its use, a diversion of purpose, since the system was
contemplated for security purposes of the Commissioner, the Agents, or where appropriate, the
arrested. The unfulfilled principle is the one that opens the infraction to the one claimed, 5.1 b)
of the GDPR.

On the other hand, the consequences in both regulations is the declaration of infraction
LOPD or the warning, RGPD. In both cases it supposes the declaration of a form of
act not in accordance with the data protection regulations and the requirement to
adequacy of conduct in the future, if it has not been done during the substantiation of the
same as what the standard provides.

In this sense, it is unknown if the system of
video surveillance in some case similar to the one denounced in said police station, given the lack
of explanations as requested in tests.

IV

In addition, for the virtuality of the system's operation, it would be necessary to
compliance with the principle, which imposes the obligation of prior information on employees
and consultation with their representatives. In this sense, it is worth mentioning the judgment
of the Constitutional Court of 29/2013 of 11/02 that in a case of control by
video surveillance of an employee of the University of Seville who was suspected of being
Irregularities in the fulfillment of their working day, in its legal basis VII
indicated:

“This right to information also operates when there is legal authorization to
collect the data without the need for consent, since it is clear that one thing is the
need or not for authorization of the affected and another, different, the duty to inform him about
its holder and the purpose of the treatment. It is true that this informative demand does not
can be taken as absolute, since it is possible to conceive limitations for reasons
constitutionally admissible and legally provided for, but it should not be forgotten that the
Constitution has wanted the Law, and only the Law, to be able to set the limits to a right
fundamental, also demanding that the cut they experience is necessary to achieve

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/22

the legitimate intended purpose, proportionate to achieve it and, in any case, respectful of the
essential content of the restricted fundamental right (SSTC 57/1994, of February 28
[RTC 1994, 57], F. 6; 18/1999, of February 22 [RTC 1999, 18] , F. 2, and in relation to the
right to personal data protection, STC 292/2000 [RTC 2000, 292], FF. 11 and
16).”

There is no express legal authorization for this omission of the right to
information on the processing of personal data in the field of relationships
employment, without the interest in controlling the activity being sufficient as a basis for this purpose, and
without it being sufficient that, in the specific case, that data processing is
possibly proportionate to the end pursued.

The TCo, 29/2013 added that “prior and express information,
precise, clear and unequivocal to the workers of the purpose of controlling the activity
to which this recruitment could be directed" and that "it should specify the
characteristics and scope of the data processing that was going to be carried out, that is, in what
cases the recordings could be examined, for how long and with what
purposes, specifying very particularly that they could be used for the imposition of
disciplinary sanctions for breaches of the employment contract.

The idea from which one must start when determining the essential content of the right that
enshrined in article 18.4 of the CE is that if the legislation recognizes certain
guarantees linked to the fundamental right to the protection of personal data,
in this case, the previous informative duty must be respected that allows to have full
knowledge of who owns the personal data and what it is used for. Only then can the
worker or employee know about the use and consequences of the collection of their data,
“informative self-determination”, and also request, as part of their right, the
limitation, access, cancellation or deletion of data.

In this case, the concrete and punctual extraction, predetermined of a strip
time in which the claimant was not in uniform, has served directly to
control compliance with its uniformity with a video surveillance system that did not have
that purpose.

v

Article 58.2 b) and d) of the RGPD provides the following: “Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation; -

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction of warning,

according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

No specific measures are imposed to be implemented by the respondent, since there is no
the treatment is detailed with the purpose for which it has been carried out, and must
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/22

not be used again on another occasion, unless it proves the proportionality of the
purpose of the use of verification of the disciplinary regulation and the adequate and clear
information on said use to those affected. As stated in this resolution,
a new purpose would have to be added if it decided to carry out disciplinary control
by the video camera capture system inside the police stations, for which
should meet the requirements of the GDPR.

       Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD indicates

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether it can,
and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies
established in that Member State.

The LOPDGDD, in its article 77 indicates
The Spanish legal system has chosen not to sanction with a fine those
public entities, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the
LOPDDG: “1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to
treatments for which they are responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law,
the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning
to them with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of
the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
protection of this article.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/22

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE a sanction of WARNING to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF
THE POLICE (MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR), with NIF S2816015H, for an infraction of the
Article 5.1 b) of the RGPD, in accordance with Article 83.5 and 58.2.b) of the RGPD.
/

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
POLICE (MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR).

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, of

FOURTH: Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in
within two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm decision may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through
any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1/10.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

