1/11

968-150719
Procedure No.: PS/00277/2019

RESOLUTION R/00575/2019 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00277/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., in view of the
claim filed by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 23, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
ESPAÑA, S.A.U.. Having notified the initiation agreement and after analyzing the allegations
presented, on October 17, 2019, the resolution proposal was issued
which is transcribed below:

<<
Procedure no.: PS/00277/2019

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on March 19, 2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (hereinafter, the claimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that he has been a Vodafone customer since
11/21/2018 and that said entity is making the charges in an account other than the one
provided that you are not the owner or authorized (specifically, it is your child's account,
which is not a VODAFONE customer)

Likewise, it states that the postal address that is in the files of Vodafone
(corresponding to a premises owned by you) is not the one provided in the contract.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

Provides burofax dated 01/16/2019, in which it informs the entity of the
existence of inaccurate data, received by the entity on 01/17/2019, as well as
claim before the Telecommunications User Service Office, in relation to the
disagreement of the amount of the charges.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to
carrying out preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts
in question, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

The claimant is informed of this claim on May 20, 2019,
requiring you to submit to this Agency, within a period of one month, information on the
response given to the claimant before the exercise of the rights regulated in articles
15 to 22 of the RGPD, the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim and the measures taken to prevent similar incidents from occurring,
dates of implementation and controls carried out to verify its effectiveness.

After the given period has elapsed, no response has been obtained from the respondent.

THIRD: On September 23, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that “Mrs. A.A.A. states in his
denounces that VODAFONE, being a client of this entity, is making charges
to a bank account other than yours. Specifically, this is your child's account,
which is not a VODAFONE customer.

Likewise, it indicates that the postal address that is in the files of VODAFONE does not
is the one provided in the contract, but corresponds to the address of a local
of your property.

The account number to which you were initially billed for services was
the account number that was provided at the time of contracting on the 21st of
November 2018 when he requested registration in the Vodafone Fibra 600MB + Fixed Package
928460219 + Total TV and Mobile Phones ***PHONE.1 and ***PHONE.2 (hereinafter, the
"Services").

At the time of contracting through the Carrefour Las Palmas point of sale,
Mrs. A.A.A. was the one who provided the account number and postal address
indicated below:

-Bankinter checking account: ***ACCOUNT.1

-address: ***ADDRESS.1

These data are those that were included in the invoices issued in the name of Mrs.
A.A.A. for the accrual of contracted services.

As for the management, the services contracted in November 2018 are
associated with a subaccount whose address is ***ADDRESS.1 in Las Palmas,
being this direction the one that was provided in the contract of November 2011, which
It is not discussed at any time by Mrs. AAA.

For these purposes, it is important to highlight that all services depend on one account
previous teacher who was registered at the address ***ADDRESS.2 in Las
Palmas, since this account is considered the master account in the systems.

But it is important to highlight that under said master account hang the rest of
accounts associated with Mrs. A.A.A. and specifically, the account that collects the services
November 2018 are associated with ***DIRECTORATE.1.

Therefore, the address (***ADDRESS.2) does not affect the active subaccounts, nor is it
It is not processed for any purpose, but it is inactive information corresponding to
to a previous contract.

Therefore, the services that were registered in the month of November 2018 are
associated with the account ending in XXXX.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

However, in the month of January 2019, the system records that Ms. A.A.A. I know
contacted to change the account number to a new one ending in "YYYY".

As the process indicates, to make the change of account it is necessary to call the
customer number and confirm it. It is tried twice without result and it is
send a message to the number ***TELEFONO.1 to request confirmation of said
change. We understand that no response was obtained because there was no change of
account number.

Subsequently, on February 14, 2019, my client received a
claim made by Ms. A.A.A. for the same matter before the Secretary of
State of Telecommunications and Information Society.

At present, the appropriate steps have already been taken to solve the
claim of Mrs. A.A.A. as quickly as possible, applying to
services the contracted promotions, billing to the current account indicated and
without stating debt assigned to said account.

The invoices are provided where it can be seen that as of February they had already
changed the bank details for the correct ones.

In conclusion, the address and bank account data that were
provided by Mrs. A.A.A. at the time of hiring in the month of
November 2018.

Later, in January 2019, he tried to carry out the change of account
requested by Ms. A.A.A., but not being able to satisfactorily carry out the
verification of the application after two calls and one SMS sent to Mrs. A.A.A.,
he did not carry it out. Remember that these checks are made for the sake of
protect our customers and prevent bank account changes from taking place
without any verification.

Therefore, it is considered that he acted at all times with the diligence that is
required since the data provided by Ms. A.A.A. at the time of
contracting have been treated with the sole purpose of billing the services
contracted, as shown in the invoices. Recruitment that has never been
questioned by Mrs. A.A.A..”

FIFTH: On October 10, 2019, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/05015/2019, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

FACTS

FIRST: A claim is filed against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. because said
entity is making the charges for the services contracted by the claimant, in a
account other than the one provided, of which they are neither the owner nor authorized.

The Spanish Data Protection Agency transfers this
claim to said entity so that it solves the situation and informs this Agency of the
measures adopted, despite this, the respondent has not responded to this Agency in the
deadline given for it.

The claimant also states that they were billing her in an account
different from the one provided since 11/21/2018, and the respondent was aware of the facts and
Even so, he did not solve it, this is proven by providing burofax dated 01/16/2019, in which
informs the entity of the existence of inaccurate data, received by the
entity on 01/17/2019, as well as a claim before the User Service Office of
Telecommunications, in relation to the disagreement of the amount of the charges.

SECOND: The entity claimed affirms that "currently, there have already been
the timely steps to resolve the claim of Mrs. A.A.A. with the biggest
as quickly as possible, applying the contracted promotions to the services,
billing to the current account indicated and without stating debt assigned to said
bill.

The invoices are provided where it can be seen that as of February they had already
changed the bank details for the correct ones.”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of the
Article 5 of the RGPD, which regulates the principles related to data processing
personal establishing that they must be:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all reasonable steps will be taken
to have inaccurate personal data deleted or rectified without delay
with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties for no more
time necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; the data
Personal data may be kept for longer periods as long as they are treated
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice
of the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by the
this Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subject ("limitation
of the term of conservation»);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of the
paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility").

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

II

In accordance with the evidence available in this
At this time, it is considered that the facts denounced, that is, the carrying out of
charges to an account other than the one provided, of which the claimant is neither the owner nor
authorized, allow verifying that the claimed has not been able to guarantee the security
adequate in the processing of the personal data of the claimant, thereby incurring
in the violation of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs the principles of integrity and
confidentiality of personal data, as well as the proactive responsibility of the
data controller to demonstrate compliance.

III

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe the
three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established in
Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular.

The infringement is typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, which establishes that "The
Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2,
with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total turnover
annual global of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

  a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

the following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

In the present case we are facing unintentional negligent action, but of data

identified significant (article 83.2 b)

Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, surname),

(article 83.2g)

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
sanction VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for an infraction of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of
€75,000.00 (SEVENTY-FIVE THOUSAND euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
You are informed that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of this. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 60,000.00 euros and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction will be conditioned to the
Withdrawal or waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the
sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount
specified above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited,
You must make it effective by depositing it in the restricted account number ES00 0000
0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number of
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the
cause, by voluntary payment, of reduction of the amount of the sanction. Also, you must
send proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection for
proceed to close the file.

By virtue thereof, the foregoing is notified, and the
procedure so that within a period of TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider
in his defense and present the documents and information that he considers pertinent,
in accordance with article 89.2 in relation to art. 73.1 of the LPACAP).

RRR

INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR

>>

 : On November 5, 2019, VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. he has
SECOND
 
proceeded to pay the penalty in the amount of 60,000 euros using the
reduction provided for in the motion for a resolution transcribed above.
THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:
FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00277/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as
prescribed by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, interested parties may
file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

