EDPB Plenary meeting, 04/05.12.2018

Opinion 25/2018 on  the  draft 
list  of  the  competent
supervisory  authority  of Croatia regarding  the  processing
operations subject to the requirement of a data protection
impact assessment (Article 35.4 GDPR)

Adopted on 4 December 2018

Adopted

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1
2

3
4

2.1
2.2
2.3

Summary of the Facts.....................................................................................................................4
Assessment.....................................................................................................................................5
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list.................................................5
Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list ...................................................5
Analysis of the draft list ..........................................................................................................6
Reference to the guidelines ............................................................................................6
2.3.1
Biometric data.................................................................................................................6
2.3.2
Genetic data....................................................................................................................6
2.3.3
Processing of personal data generated by sensor devices .............................................7
2.3.4
Conclusions / Recommendations...................................................................................................7
Final Remarks .................................................................................................................................7

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1a), (3) - (8) and Article 35 (1), (3), (4), (6) of the Regulation
2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such
data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”),

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with article 64.1 GDPR, the
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to adopt a list of processing
operations  subject  to  the  requirement  for  a  data  protection  impact  assessment  pursuant  to
article 35.4 GDPR. The aim of this opinion is therefore to create a harmonised approach with regard
to processing that is cross border or that can affect the free flow of personal data or natural person
across  the  European  Union.  Even  though  the  GDPR  doesn’t  impose  a  single  list,  it  does  promote
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by requesting SAs to
include some types of processing in their lists, secondly by requesting them to remove some criteria
which the Board doesn’t consider as necessarily creating high risks for data subjects, and finally by
requesting them to use some criteria in a harmonized manner.

(2) With reference to Article 35 (4) and (6) GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall establish
lists of the kind of processing operations which are subject to the requirement for a data protection
impact assessment (hereinafter “DPIA”). They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism where
such lists involve processing operations, which are related to the offering of goods or services to data
subjects or to the monitoring of their behaviour in several Member States, or may substantially affect
the free movement of personal data within the Union.

(3)  While  the  draft  lists  of  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  are  subject  to  the  consistency
mechanism,  this  does  not  mean  that  the  lists  should  be  identical.  The  competent  supervisory
authorities have a margin of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take
into account their local legislation. The aim of the EDPB assessment/opinion is not to reach a single
EU list but rather to avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect the equivalent protection of the
data subjects.

(4) The carrying out of a DPIA is only mandatory for the controller pursuant to Article 35 (1) GDPR
where processing is “likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons”.
Article 35 (3) GDPR illustrates what is likely to result in a high risk. This is a non-exhaustive list. The

Adopted

3

Working Party 29 in the Guidelines on data protection impact assessment1, as endorsed by the EDPB2,
has  clarified  criteria  that  can  help  to  identify  when  processing  operations  are  subject  to  the
requirement for a DPIA. The Working Party 29 Guidelines WP248 state that in most cases, a data
controller can consider that a processing meeting two criteria would require a DPIA to be carried out,
however, in some cases a data controller can consider that a processing meeting only one of these
criteria requires a DPIA.

(5) The lists produced by the competent supervisory authorities support the same objective to identify
processing operations likely to result in a high risk and processing operations, which therefore require
a DPIA. As such, the criteria developed in the Working Party 29 Guidelines should be applied when
assessing  whether  the  draft  lists  of  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  does  not  affect  the
consistent application of the GDPR.

(6) Twenty-two competent supervisory authorities received an opinion on their draft lists from the
EDPB on  5  September  2018. A  further  4  SAs  submitted  their  draft  list  by  early  October. A  global
assessment of these draft lists supports the objective of a consistent application of the GDPR even
though the complexity of the subject matter increases.

(7) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with
Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the
Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision
of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of
the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

The competent supervisory authority of Croatia has submitted its draft list to the EDPB. The decision
on the completeness of the file was taken on the 9th of October 2018.
The period until which the opinion has to be adopted has been extended until the 16th of January
2019 taking into account the complexity of the subject matter considering also the need to factor in
the  outcome  of  the  review  of the twenty-two draft lists previously submitted  by competent
supervisory authorities and the need for a global assessment of all of them.

1 WP29, Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment and determining whether processing is “likely to
result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 (WP 248 rev. 01).
2 EDPB, Endorsement 1/2018.

4

Adopted

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list

Any list submitted to the EDPB has been interpreted as further specifying Art 35.1, which will prevail
in any case. Thus, no list can be exhaustive.

In compliance with article 35.10 GDPR, the Board is of the opinion that if a DPIA has already been
carried out as part of a general impact assessment in the context of the adoption of the legal basis the
obligation to carry out a DPIA in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 7 of article 35 GDPR does not apply,
unless the Member State deems it necessary.

Further, if the Board requests a DPIA for a certain category of processing and an equivalent measure
is  already  required  by  national  law,  the Agencija  za  zaštitu  osobnih  podataka (hereafter Croatian
Supervisory Authority) shall add a reference to this measure.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the Croatian Supervisory Authority, which were
deemed outside the scope of Article 35.6 GDPR. This refers to items that neither relate “to the offering
of goods or services to data subjects” in several Member States nor to the monitoring of the behaviour
of data subjects in several Member States. Additionally, they are not likely to “substantially affect the
free movement of personal data within the Union”. This is especially the case for items relating to
national legislation and in particular where the obligation to carry out a DPIA is stipulated in national
legislation. Further, any processing operations that relate to law enforcement were deemed out of
scope, as they are not in scope of the GDPR.

The Board has noted that several supervisory authorities have included in their lists some types of
processing  which  are  necessarily  local  processing. Given  that only  cross  border  processing  and
processing that may affect the free flow of personal data and data subjects are concerned by Article
35.6, the Board will not comment on those local processing.

The opinion aims at defining a consistent core of processing operations that are recurrent in the lists
provided by the SAs.

This means that,  for  a  limited  number of types of  processing  operations  that will  be  defined  in  a
harmonized way, all the Supervisory Authorities will require a DPIA to be carried out and the Board
will recommend the SAs to amend their lists accordingly in order to ensure consistency.

When this opinion remains silent on DPIA list entries submitted, it means that the Board is not asking
the Croatian Supervisory Authority to take further action.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

Finally, the Board recalls that transparency is key for data controllers and data processors. In order to
clarify the entries in the list, the Board is of the opinion that making an explicit reference in the lists,
for each type of processing, to the criteria set out in the guidelines could improve this transparency.
Therefore, the Board considers that an explanation on which criteria have been taken into account by
the Croatian Supervisory Authority to create its list could be added.

2.2 Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list

11.

The  draft  list submitted by the Croatian Supervisory  Authority relates to the offering  of  goods or
services to data subjects, relates to the monitoring of their behavior in several Member States and/or

5

Adopted

may substantially affect the free movement of personal data within the Union mainly because the
processing operations in the submitted draft list are not limited to data subjects in this country.

2.3 Analysis of the draft list

12.

Taking into account that:

a. Article 35 (1) GDPR requires a DPIA when the processing activity is likely to result in a high risk

to the rights and freedoms of natural persons; and

b. Article 35 (3) GDPR provides a non-exhaustive list of types of processing that require a DPIA,

the Board is of the opinion that:

2.3.1 Reference to the guidelines

13.

14.

15.

The Board is of the opinion that the analysis done in the Working Party 29 Guidelines WP248 are a
core element for ensuring consistency across the Union. Thus, it requests the different Supervisory
Authorities to add a statement to the document containing their list that clarifies that their list is based
on these guidelines and that it complements and further specifies the guidelines.

The Croatian Supervisory Authority states: “The Guidelines on the DPIA have been analyzed as well as
available materials and acts of other institutions and authorities in the field of personal data protection
in the EU.” The Board recommends the Croatian Supervisory Authority to clarify in its document that
the Working Party 29 Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (WP 248) are meant, given
that  not  all  readers  can  be  assumed  to  be  familiar  with  them.  Further  it  requests  the  Croatian
Supervisory Authority to clarify that their list is based on these guidelines and that it complements
and further specifies the guidelines.

2.3.2 Biometric data

The list submitted by the Croatian Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board states, that the
processing of biometric data in and of itself falls under the obligation to perform a DPIA. The Board is
of the opinion that the processing of biometric data is not necessarily likely to represent a high risk
per se. However, the processing of biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural
person in conjunction with at least one other criterion requires a DPIA to be carried out. Therefore
the Board requests the Croatian Supervisory Authority to amend its list accordingly, firstly by clarifying
that  the  item  referencing  the  processing  of  biometric  data  applies  where  the  purpose  of  the
processing is uniquely identifying a natural person, secondly by adding to this item that only when it
is done in conjunction with at least one other criterion a DPIA is required to be carried out, bearing in
mind that the DPIA list is to be applied without prejudice to article 35(3) GDPR.

2.3.3 Genetic data

16.

The list submitted by the Croatian Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board states, that the
processing of genetic data in and of itself falls under the obligation to perform a DPIA. The Board is of
the opinion that the processing of genetic data is not necessarily likely to represent a high risk per se.
However, the processing of genetic data in conjunction with at least one other criterion requires a
DPIA to be carried out. Therefore the Board requests the Croatian Supervisory Authority to amend its
list accordingly, by adding that the item referencing the processing of genetic data requires a DPIA to

6

Adopted

be carried out only when it is done in conjunction of at least one other criterion, to be applied without
prejudice to article 35(3) GDPR.

2.3.4 Processing of personal data generated by sensor devices

17.

The  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  processing  of  personal  data  generated  by  sensor  devices
transmitting  data  over  the  Internet  or  other  information  transfer  technologies  should  not  be  a
criterion leading to an obligation to do a DPIA, alone or with another criterion, is not necessarily likely
to represent a high risk, as the current wording of this item of the draft DPIA list is overly broad in
scope. Given that the list submitted by the Croatian Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board
envisages this type of processing as requiring a data protection impact assessment, the Board requests
the Croatian Supervisory Authority to remove this item from its list.

3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

18.

The draft list of the Croatian Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent application of the
requirement for a DPIA and the following changes need to made:

Regarding  the  reference  to  the  guidelines: the  Board  requests  the  Croatian  Supervisory
Authority to clarify that their list is based on these guidelines and that it complements and
further specifies the guidelines.
Regarding biometric data: the Board requests the Croatian Supervisory Authority to amend its
list firstly  by  clarifying  that  the  item  referencing  the  processing  of  biometric  data  applies
where the purpose of the processing is uniquely identifying a natural person, secondly by
adding to this item that only when it is done in conjunction with at least one other criterion a
DPIA is required to be carried out.
Regarding genetic data: the Board requests the Croatian Supervisory Authority to amend its
list by adding that the item referencing the processing of genetic data requires a DPIA to be
carried out only when it is done in conjunction with at least one other criterion.
Regarding processing of personal data generated by sensor devices the Board requests the
Croatian Supervisory Authority to remove this item from its list.

4 FINAL REMARKS

19.

20.

This opinion is addressed to the Agencija za zaštitu osobnih podataka (Croatian Supervisory Authority)
and will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the supervisory authority shall communicate to the Chair by
electronic means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its
draft list. Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend
to follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend
to follow this opinion, in whole or in part.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

Adopted

7





(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

8

