REPUBLIC 

OF CYPRUS 

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER 

FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION 

 

 

 
Our ref. 11.17.001.007.188 
 

10 October 2019 

 
HOSTINGER INTERNATIONAL LTD 
61 Lordou Vironos Street 
6023 Larnaca, Cyprus 
 
Subject: Examination of complaints – exercise of data subjects’ rights under the GDPR 
 
Dear Mr XXXXXX, 
 
Further  to  the  exchange  of  communications  between  the  Commissioner  and  HOSTINGER 
concerning  two  complaints  involving  HOSTINGER,  we  would  like  to  bring  to  your  attention  the 
following assessment of the Commissioner. 
 
Complaint lodged in Spain 
 
In July 2018 a complaint was lodged with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection by Mr. XXXXX 
regarding HOSTINGER’s failure to comply with his erasure request. The data subject requested by 
e-mail  the  erasure  of  his  data  on  30/05/2018  and  10/07/2018.  The  emails  were  sent  to 
es@hostinger.com with copy to gdpr@hostinger.com. HOSTINGER did not react to these requests 
nor send any other response to the data subject.    
 
Complaint lodged in Germany 
 
While  the  investigation  of  the  complaint  of  Mr  XXXXXX  by  the  Commissioner  was  ongoing,  a 
similar  complaint  was  lodged  in  January  2019  in  Germany  by  Mr.  XXXXXX.  The  complainant 
claimed that he sent a data subject access request (SAR) by e-mail to gdpr@hostinger.com on 9 
December 2018 and did not receive any reaction from HOSTINGER.  
 
Hostinger’s response 
 
In your initial response to the Commissioner regarding the complaint of Mr. XXXXXX you affirmed 
that you have searched the mentioned mailboxes - es@hostinger.com and gdpr@hostinger.com – 
and did not find any message from the data subject, that you also searched the spam and trash 
folders with no results, that you reviewed the chat records and did not find any conversation with 
the  data  subject  and  that  you  also  contacted  the  Spanish  speaking  customers  support  agents  of 
HOSTINGER and they do not remember such request.  
 
You  assured  that  your  agreements,  policies  and  processes  were  reviewed  and  amended  in  April 
2018, that your staff is well trained and have directions about GDPR  requests; you follow GDPR 
procedures and delete customers’ data when requested. In your letter of 30th May, you provided a 
copy  of  the  register  of  client  deletion  requests,  which  showcases  the  amount  of  handled  cases. 
The register of client deletion requests consists of 985 closed issues as of that date.  
 
 
 

1 Iasonos str., P.O. Box 23378, 1682  NICOSIA, CYPRUS Tel.: +357 22818456, Fax:+357 22304565 

E-mail: commissioner@dataprotection.gov.cy ,Website: http://www.dataprotection.gov.cy 

 

 
 
 
You  confirmed that the reason  of  non-compliance  with  the  erasure  request  of  the  data  subject  is 
that you did not find any evidence that a deletion request was received and you further confirmed 
that  henceforth  you  complied  with  the  erasure  request  and  took  all  necessary  actions  to  delete 
from your system all personal data of Mr. XXXXXXX. 
 
Further  to  this,  in  your  letter  of  30th  May  you  provided  explanations  regarding  proof  of the  online 
verification process you carried out, specifically about requests sent by data subjects to the email 
gdpr@hostinger.com.  
 
Concerning the complaint of Mr. XXXXXX, you affirmed that  you never received  the data subject 
request, this is the reason he did not receive any response from you. Following the investigation of 
the Commissioner, you carried out an internal investigation as per above, but no evidence of the 
SAR  was  found.  You  confirmed  that  following  the  complaint,  you  provided  the  requested 
information to Mr. XXXXXX and informed him that his e-mail address and other account data shall 
not be processed for advertising and marketing purposes, including public opinion polling, as per 
his request. 
 
Commissioner’s assessment 
 
In light of the explanations provided and the actions taken by HOSTINGER to address the issues 
at  stake,  we  do  not  currently  intend  to  take  any  regulatory  action  on  these  complaints.  The 
Commissioner reserves the right, in the event of any future complaints lodged by data subjects, to 
use all powers afforded to her by the GDPR and by national Law 125(I)/2018. 
 
We thank you for your cooperation in these matters. 
 
Best regards, 
 
Commissioner  
for Personal Data Protection 

