  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Opinion 8/2019 on the competence of a supervisory 

authority in case of a change in circumstances relating to the 

main or single establishment 

 

 

Adopted on 9 July 2019 

 

Adopted 

 

1 

Table of contents 

1 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................................ 3 

2  ON THE COMPETENCE OF THE BOARD TO ADOPT AN OPINION UNDER ARTICLE 64.2 ON THIS 
TOPIC ....................................................................................................................................................... 4 

3 

RELEVANT PROVISIONS ................................................................................................................... 5 

4  OPINION OF THE EDPB .................................................................................................................... 6 

4.1 

4.2 

4.3 

Scope of the opinion ............................................................................................................... 6 

The rationale for the opinion .................................................................................................. 6 

The adopted opinion ............................................................................................................... 8 

4.3.1 

4.3.2 
EEA 

4.3.3 

Relocation of the main or single establishment within the EEA ..................................... 8 

Creation of the main or single establishment or relocation from a third country to the 
 ......................................................................................................................................... 8 

Disappearance of the main or single establishment ....................................................... 9 

5 

CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................................. 10 

 

 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having  regard  to  Article  63  and  Article  64(2)  of  the  Regulation  2016/679/EU  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the 
processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC 
(hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 
 
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The  main  role  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (hereafter  the  “Board”)  is  to  ensure  the 
consistent application of the GDPR throughout the European Economic Area. Article 64(2) of the GDPR 
provides that any supervisory authority, the Chair of the Board or the Commission may request that 
any  matter  of  general  application  or  producing  effects  in  more  than  one  EEA  Member  State  be 
examined by the Board with a view to obtaining an opinion. The aim of this opinion is to examine a 
matter of general application or which produces effects in more than one EEA Member State. 
 
(2) On April 30, 2019, the French and the Swedish Data Protection Authorities requested the Board to 
examine and issue an opinion on continuance of the competence of a national authority in case of a 
change in circumstances relating to the main or single establishment. 
 
(3) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64(3) of the GDPR in conjunction with 
Article 10(2) of the Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair 
and the competent supervisory authorities have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of 
the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of 
the subject matter. 
 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

2. 

The French and the Swedish data protection authorities requested the Board to examine and issue an 
opinion on continuance of the competence of a national authority in case of a change in circumstances 
relating to the main or single establishment. 
 
These changes may occur when: 

  a single or main establishment is relocated from one EEA country to another EEA country; 
  a single or main establishment ceases to exist on the EEA territory; 

Adopted 

 

3 

  a main establishment is set up on an EEA country’s territory or moves from a third country to 

an EEA country. 

 
 
The French and the Swedish data protection authorities specifically submitted the following questions : 
 

3. 

  As of when should an authority’s competence be considered as definitely fixed, rendering any 
change  relating  to  the  main  or  single  establishment’s  circumstances  without  effect  on  the 
procedure? 

  Should this be the initial moment when a complaint is received by an authority or, if not based 

on a complaint, when the authority starts looking at a processing at its own discretion? 

  Should this be the moment when an authority decides to initiate an investigation and contacts 

the controller/processor? 

  Should it be the moment when a decision-making procedure is launched? 
  Should this be the moment when the authority renders a decision thereby putting an end to 

the case in question? 

4. 

 
The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 17 May 2019. The period until which the 
opinion has to be adopted has been set until 12 July. 

2  ON  THE  COMPETENCE  OF  THE  BOARD  TO  ADOPT  AN  OPINION 

UNDER ARTICLE 64.2 ON THIS TOPIC 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

The Board considers that the question of competence of a national authority in case of a change in 
circumstances relating to the main or single establishment concerns a “matter of general application” 
of the GDPR, as there is a clear need for a consistent interpretation among data protection authorities 
on the boundaries of their competences. Clarification is particularly needed to ensure, amongst others, 
a consistent practice of cooperation in accordance with Article 60, mutual assistance in accordance 
with Article 61 of the GDPR and joint operations in accordance with Article 62 of the GDPR. 
 
Indeed, the GDPR does not contain any specific provision relating to the case in which the main or 
single establishment of the controller or processor is set up on the territory of one EEA Member State 
and relocated mid-procedure to another Member State’s territory or outside the European Economic 
Area, nor to the case in which an establishment is created inside the European Economic Area mid-
procedure or ceases to exist. 
 
Likewise, to date, EDPB guidelines, and particularly those relating to the lead supervisory authority, do 
not provide any more information than the GDPR does as regards these situations. 
 
Yet, to enable consistent implementation across the European Economic Area, an objective criterion 
must be found to fix the moment from which any change in circumstances would have no effect on 
the competence acquired by an authority. This issue is of significant importance as the matter of the 
potential concurrent competences between supervisory authorities need to be addressed. It is thus 
necessary, not only from the perspective of legal certainty, but also from an operational perspective 
(case handling by data protection authorities), to clarify the questions raised. 
 

Adopted 

 

4 

9. 

For these reasons the Board considers that the questions raised by the French and the Swedish data 
protection authorities can be subject to an opinion under Article 64.2. 

3  RELEVANT PROVISIONS 

10.  Article 4.3 of the Treaty on European Union provides: “Pursuant to the principle of sincere cooperation, 
the Union and the Member States shall, in full mutual respect, assist each other in carrying out tasks 
which  flow  from  the  Treaties.  The  Member  States  shall  take  any  appropriate  measure,  general  or 
particular, to ensure fulfilment of the obligations arising out of the Treaties or resulting from the acts 
of the institutions of the Union. The Member States shall facilitate the achievement of the Union's tasks 
and refrain from any measure which could jeopardise the attainment of the Union's objectives.” 
 

11.  Article 41(1) of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights provides that: “Every person has the right to 
have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions and 
bodies of the Union”. 
 

12.  Article  51(1)  of  the  GDPR  sets  forth  the  legal  mandate  of  data  protection  authorities,  which  is  to 
monitor  the  application  of  the  GDPR  in  order  to  protect  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of 
natural persons in relation to processing and to facilitate the free flow of personal data within the 
European Economic Area. 
 

13.  Articles 55, 57 and 58 specify the competence, tasks and powers of each data protection authority1. 

 

14.  Article 56 provides for the “one-stop shop” mechanism, a procedural rule according to which a specific 
role is granted to a lead supervisory authority, defined as the authority on the territory of which the 
controller or processor has its main or single establishment2. 
 

15.  Chapter VII of the GDPR, entitled “Cooperation and Consistency”, defines the different ways in which 
data protection authorities shall cooperate in order to contribute to a consistent  application of the 
GDPR. The relevant provisions are set out in particular in Article 60 of the GDPR, which provides for 
the  cooperation  between  the  lead  supervisory  authority  and  the  other  supervisory  authorities 

                                                           
1 It should be recalled in this respect that Recital 11 of the GDPR stipulates as follows: “Effective protection of 
personal data throughout  the Union requires the strengthening and setting out in  detail of the rights of data 
subjects  and  the  obligations  of  those  who  process  and  determine  the  processing  of  personal  data,  as  well  as 
equivalent powers for monitoring and ensuring compliance with the rules for the protection of personal data and 
equivalent  sanctions  for  infringements  in  the  Member  States”.  Recital  13  of  the  GDPR  states  that  one  of  the 
objectives of the Regulation is “to provide legal certainty and transparency for economic operators […] as well as 
effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities of different Member States”. Lastly, pursuant to Recital 
122, “Each supervisory authority should be competent on the territory of its own Member State to exercise the 
powers and to perform the tasks conferred on it in accordance with this Regulation”. 
2 Recital 124 provides that: “Where the processing of personal data takes place in the context of the activities of 
an establishment of a controller or a processor in the Union and the controller or processor is established in more 
than one Member State, or where processing taking place in the context of the activities of a single establishment 
of a controller or processor in the Union substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect data subjects in 
more than one Member State, the supervisory authority for the main establishment of the controller or processor 
or for the single establishment of the controller or processor should act as lead authority”. 

Adopted 

 

5 

concerned3. Likewise, under Articles 61 and 62 of the GDPR, supervisory authorities shall provide each 
other  with  mutual  assistance  and,  where  appropriate,  conduct  joint  operations,  including  joint 
investigations and joint enforcement measures. 

4  OPINION OF THE EDPB 

4.1  Scope of the opinion 

16. 

In  the  context  of  the  present  opinion,  the  Board  is of the  view  that  the  questions mainly  relate  to 
infringements of a continuing or continuous nature due to the fact that, for a change in circumstances 
relating  to  the  main  or  single  establishment  to  intervene,  the  infringements  need  to  have  been 
committed over a certain period of time. A “continuing” infringement is an act (or omission) which 
lasts over a certain period of time and a “continuous” infringement is an offence consisting of several 
acts all of which contain the elements of the same (or similar) offence committed over a certain period 
of  time  (European  Court  of  human  rights,  grand  chamber,  case  of  Rohlena  v.  the  Czech  Republic, 
application no 59552/08). 
 
4.2  The rationale for the opinion 

17. 

18. 

The EDPB underlines that the rules of the GDPR on distribution of competences among the different 
concerned Member State authorities and the concept of lead authority are based on intense and fluent 
co-operation among the SAs. This new level of cooperation is deriving from the fact that the GDPR is 
now the common legal framework for data protection, so there should be no doubt or obstacle for SAs 
on the consistent and swift application of the GDPR. Therefore when considering the right answer to 
the question raised the efficient cooperation of SAs based on mutual trust is taken as a starting point 
and a must. 
 
To enable consistent implementation across the European Economic Area, an objective criterion must 
be found to solidify the moment from which any change in circumstances would have no effect on the 
competence acquired by an authority. Such criterion should meet three objectives: 

 

 

 

to  ensure  both  data  controller  and  data  subjects  a  sufficient  degree  of  legal  certainty  and 
foreseeability, an objective stated in the GDPR and particularly in Recital 13; 
to take into account considerations relating to good administration, by ensuring the efficiency 
and effectiveness of action taken by authorities (see in particular Article 41 of the CFR EU and 
Recitals 11 and 13 of the GDPR) and by avoiding any misuse of the one-stop shop mechanism 
in the form of forum shopping or forum “hopping”; 
to limit the risk of concurrent competences between authorities. 

 

19.  Article 55(1) and Recital 122 of the GDPR set out the general principles regarding competence of SAs, 
whereby each supervisory authority is competent on the territory of its own Member State “for the 
performance of the tasks assigned to and the exercise of the powers conferred on it in accordance with 

                                                           
3 This is supported by Recitals 123 to 126 and 130. More specifically, according to recital 125, “(…) In its capacity 
as  lead  authority,  the  supervisory  authority  should  closely  involve  and  coordinate  the  supervisory  authorities 
concerned in the decision-making process”. Recital 126 states that “The decision should be agreed jointly by the 
lead supervisory authority and the supervisory authorities concerned and should be directed towards the main or 
single establishment of the controller or processor (…)”. 

Adopted 

 

6 

this Regulation”. However, Article 56(1) and Recital 124 contain an overriding rule and provide that 
the supervisory authority of the main establishment or of the single establishment of the controller or 
processor is competent to act as LSA for the cross-border processing carried out by that controller or 
processor. 
 

22. 

21. 

20.  Article 56(1) is lex specialis, and as such it takes priority whenever any processing situation arises that 
fulfils the conditions specified therein – such as the one where there is a main or single establishment 
in  the  EU  that  is  responsible  for  cross-border  processing  activities  involved  in  a  complaint/alleged 
detected or reported infringement. Accordingly, a LSA’s competence for handling a case arises from 
the existence of the controller’s/processor’s main or single establishment on the territory of its MS in 
the context of a cross-border processing activity. If the main  or single establishment moves once a 
proceeding has been initiated before or by the LSA, and if the new main or single establishment fulfils 
the conditions for being considered as such, then the controller/processor will be entitled to rely on a 
new sole interlocutor under Article 56.1 and 56.6, i.e., the new LSA in the Member State of the new 
main or single establishment. 
 
The switch of the role as LSA does not mean that the initial SA was not competent to act at the time it 
did, and therefore it does not retroactively deprive the operations already carried out by the initial 
authority of a legal basis. The previously competent SA had full jurisdiction when the main or single 
establishment was located on its territory. Therefore, the acts performed retain their value and the 
evidence and information gathered by former LSA can be used by the newly competent one. 
 
This solution increases the chances for the deciding authority to have the power to enforce its decision. 
Indeed, the new LSA is in a position to enforce the decision it renders as there is an establishment of 
the controller or processor on its territory, which is in line with the principle of effective enforcement 
set out in Recital 11 of the GDPR. 
 
Furthermore, this solution also offers the advantage of reducing the risk of two authorities (or more) 
considering themselves  to be  the  lead for the same  infringement or, on the contrary,  no authority 
considering itself to be the lead. Indeed, the criterion of a final decision being reached is relatively 
straightforward and its satisfaction quite easy to determine. 
 
In any event, it is worth underlying that in case of change of LSA, the cooperation procedure set forth 
under Article 60 will be applicable and the new LSA will be under an obligation to cooperate with the 
former LSA and with other CSAs in an endeavour to reach consensus, at least if the former LSA remains 
a CSA. In practice, this means that the new LSA will have to submit a draft decision to the former LSA 
(and all the other concerned SAs), which as any other CSA will be in a position to express a relevant 
and reasoned objection. Moreover, the former LSA will be in a position to participate in the carrying 
out of the investigations in the context of joint operations pursuant to Article 62 if it meets the criteria 
set out in Article 4(22). 
 
The fact that a final decision has been reached in a cooperation procedure initiated under Article 60 
GDPR must be taken into due account in particular by ensuring that the initial (L)SA is involved in any 
subsequent steps by the newly established LSA so as to avoid depriving the administrative process of 
its effectiveness and/or introducing further delays in making available the relevant remedies (also in 
accordance with Article 41 of the CFR EU). 

25. 

23. 

24. 

Adopted 

 

7 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

 
Lastly, it shall be noted that to prevent forum shopping and ensure an effective protection of data 
subjects,  the  relocation  of  the  main  establishment  needs  to  be  effective  and  proven  by  the  data 
controller  (see  the  WP244  entitled  “Guidelines  for  identifying  a  controller  or  processor’s  lead 
supervisory authority” adopted on 13 December 2016 by the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, 
p.8). The concept of the main establishment itself indicates that it is not just a momentary or only a 
bureaucratic  step  to  define  it  by  the  undertaking,  but  a  real  one,  made  with  a  lasting  purpose. 
Therefore,  SAs  should  exercise effective  control over  the  notion of main  establishment  in  order  to 
reduce  the  risk  that  controllers  or  processors  artificially  change  their  main  establishment  for  the 
purpose of changing the competent authority to handle the case. 
 
4.3  The adopted opinion 

4.3.1  Relocation of the main or single establishment within the EEA 
 
Subject  to  the  above  considerations,  the  relocation  of  the  main  establishment  to  the  territory  of 
another EEA Member State mid-procedure is considered to deprive the first authority of its original 
competence at the moment such a change becomes effective, but not to retrospectively deprive the 
operations already carried out by the initial authority of a legal basis. 
 
Every pending proceeding will be transferred to the SA of the state in which the main establishment is 
located. This SA will become LSA, and the proceeding will continue in accordance with the rules laid 
down in Article 60, in cooperation with the CSA referred to in Article 4(22). 
 
The relocation of the main or single establishment within the EEA is considered to deprive the first 
authority of its original role as LSA at the moment such a change becomes effective and demonstrated. 
As previously, the cooperation procedure set forth under Article 60 will be applicable and the new LSA 
will be under an obligation to cooperate with the former LSA and with other CSAs in order to reach 
consensus. 
 
4.3.2  Creation of the main or single establishment or relocation from a third country to the 

EEA 

 
The EDPB considers that the lead competence can switch to another SA until a final decision is made 
by the LSA. As a result, the creation of a main or single establishment  or its relocation from a third 
country to the EEA (in a procedure which was initially started without cooperation) mid-procedure will 
allow the controller to benefit from the one-stop-shop. 
 
Every pending proceeding (necessarily non-cooperation proceeding because of the initial lack of main 
establishment in the EEA) will be transferred to the SA of the state in which the main establishment is 
located. This SA will become LSA, and the proceeding will continue in accordance with the rules laid 
down in Article 60, in cooperation with the CSA referred to in Article 4(22). 
 
The creation of a main or single establishment or its relocation from a third country is considered to 
deprive  the  first  authority  of  its  original  role  as  a  competent  authority  due  to  the  fact  that  the 
complaint  has been first  lodged with the  SA,  at the moment such a change  becomes effective  and 
demonstrated. As previously, the cooperation procedure set forth under Article 60 will be applicable 

Adopted 

 

8 

and the new LSA will be under an obligation to cooperate with the former LSA and with other CSAs in 
an endeavour to reach consensus. 
 
4.3.3  Disappearance of the main or single establishment 
 
The EDPB considers that the lead competence can switch to another SA until a final decision is made 
by the LSA. As a result, the disappearance of the main or single establishment mid-procedure (either 
because  the  main  establishment  has  been  moved  out  of  the  EEA  territory  or  because  it  has  been 
disbanded) will divest the controller to benefit from the one-stop-shop. 
 
In the case in which the establishment ceases to exist in the territory of its Member State, the former 
lead supervisory authority remains competent like any other CSA under Article 4(22) of the GDPR. Since 
the processing cannot be considered as cross border any more, the principle of cooperation vanishes 
and each concerned authority regains full jurisdiction. 
 

33. 

34. 

 

 

Adopted 

 

9 

5  CONCLUSION 

35. 

In conclusion, the Board considers that competence to act as lead supervisory authority can switch to 
another supervisory authority in case of a documented change in the circumstances relating to the 
main or single establishment of a controller or processor until a final decision has been reached by that 
supervisory authority. 
 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

 

10 

