 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  10/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authorities of Germany regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

Adopted on 25 May 2020 

 

 

Adopted 

1 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................................................ 4 

ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements ............... 4 

Analysis of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies ... 5 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS ........................................................................................................................ 5 

INDEPENDENCE .............................................................................................................................. 6 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST .................................................................................................................. 6 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES ............................................................................. 7 

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING ......................................................................................... 7 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................................................................... 7 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................................... 8 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority.  Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance  explaining  the  accreditation  requirements;  and,  finally,  requesting  the  competent  SAs  to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes of conduct.  They shall, however, apply the 
consistency mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring 
bodies carry out the monitoring of compliance with codes in a competent, consistent and independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of  effectively  monitoring  the  code.  The  GDPR  does  not  define  the  term  “accreditation”.  However, 
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

 

Adopted 

3 

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

 (4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The  German  Supervisory  Authorities  of  the  Federation  and  the  Länder  (hereinafter  “DE  SAs”)  have 
submitted  their  draft  decision  containing  the  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion pursuant to article 64 (1)(c) GDPR, for a consistent 
approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 13 February 2020.  

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board’s Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

  ASSESSMENT 

  General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation 

requirements 

3. 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board’s opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

4. 

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 

Adopted 

4 

foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

5. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly requests SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing 
up of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account 
of the specific features of the various processing sectors and the specific needs of micro, small and 
medium  sized  enterprises.”  (Article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

DE SAs to take further action.  

8. 

This  opinion does not reflect upon  items submitted by  the DE SAs,  which are outside the scope of 
article  41  (2)  GDPR,  such  as  references  to  national  legislation.  The  Board  nevertheless  notes  that 
national legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

  Analysis of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s 

monitoring bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all  codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

10. 

11. 

 
For the sake of consistency, the Board encourages the DE SAs to use the Guidelines terminology in the 
draft accreditation requirements and replace the word “criteria” by the word “requirements” in the 
title of the draft accreditation requirements.  

The  Board  notes  that  in  the  introductory  part  under  section  3  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation 
requirements,  which  defines  the  powers  of  the  monitoring  body,  it  is  stated  that  the  relationship 
between  the  monitoring  body  and  the  code  members  is  subject  to  regulation  by  private  law 
agreement. The Board highlights that the binding nature of the rules of the code of conduct, including 
those providing for the monitoring mechanism, would result from the (mere) adhesion of the code 
members to the code, as well as from their membership of the representative association. Whereas 
contractual  arrangements  are  not,  per  se,  excluded,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  essential 
elements of the monitoring body’s function should be included in the code itself. Additional clauses 

Adopted 

5 

may be added in the form of an agreement or contract between the monitoring body and the code 
member, as long as they do not entail a variation in the essential elements of the monitoring body’s 
function, as set out in the code. Therefore, the Board recommends the DE SAs to specify that the core 
elements of the monitoring body’s function will be included in the code of conduct. 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

12. 

13. 

The Board observes that the draft accreditation requirements do not make  an explicit reference to 
“accountability”  as  one  of  the  four  areas  in  which  the  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate 
independence.  The  Board  considers  that  the  independence  of  the  monitoring  body  shall  be 
demonstrated in four areas: 1) Legal and decision making procedures, 2) financial, 3) organisational 
and  4)  accountability.2  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  DE  SAs  include  the  explicit 
obligation to demonstrate independence in relation to the accountability of the monitoring body. 

The  Board  observes  that  the  introductory  paragraph  under  section  2.2  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft 
accreditation requirements refers to independence of the monitoring body in relation to the “sectoral 
subject matter of the code of conduct”. The Guidelines (paragraph 63) provide further information on 
how  independence  of  the  monitoring  body  can  be  demonstrated,  for  example  by  demonstrating 
independence in relation to the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies. Therefore, 
the Board encourages the DE SAs to redraft this part of the requirements in line with the Guidelines 
by stating, for example, that the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies are included 
within the “sectoral subject matter”. 

14.  With regard to section 2.2.1 of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements, the Board takes note of 
all the elements demonstrating the monitoring body’s independence with respect to its organisational 
structure. Among others, it is stated that the monitoring body cannot be penalised for the performance 
of its tasks. The Board considers that it should be further clarified that the monitoring body assumes 
responsibility  for  its  activities,  and  it  cannot  be  penalised  by  neither  the  code  owner  nor  the  code 
members. Therefore, the Board encourages the DE SA to redraft this part of the requirement so that 
the  monitoring  body  is  protected  against  any  dismissal  or  sanction,  direct  or  indirect,  for  the 
performance of its duties.  

15. 

The  Board  notes  the  requirement  for  the  monitoring  body  to  demonstrate  adequate  financial 
resources  in  order  to  cover  liability  claims,  among  others  (section  2.2.2  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft 
accreditation  requirements).  However,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  such  a  requirement  might 
appear disproportionately burdensome for small and medium enterprises that might be discouraged 
from  applying  for  accreditation.  In  this  regard,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  DE  SAs  soften  the 
wording of this section, referring to the monitoring body’s responsibilities in a general manner. 

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

16.  Regarding the individual activities and processes of the monitoring activity that can be outsourced to 
external  service  providers  (section  2.5  of  the  DE  SAs’  draft  accreditation  requirements),  the  Board 
considers that the fact that the obligations applicable to the monitoring body are also applicable to the 
subcontractors should be clearly stated in the requirements. For this reason, the Board recommends 
the DE SAs to add the words  “and obligations” after the word “requirements” and delete the word 
“essentially” from the first bullet point under section 2.5.  

2 The EDPB developed these areas in more detail in the Opinion 9/2019 on the Austrian SA draft accreditation 
requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR. 

 

6 

Adopted 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

Section 2.6.1.2 of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements states that the monitoring body will 
assess  whether  code  members  are  able  to  implement  the  codes  of  conduct  by  carrying  out  a 
“representative random sampling”.  According to Article 41 (2)(b) GDPR and paragraphs 70 and 71 of 
the  Guidelines,  the  monitoring  body  will  need  to  have  appropriate  governance  structures  and 
procedures, which allow for it to adequately assess the eligibility of controllers and processors to sign 
up and comply with the code. The Board questions how assessment based on representative random 
sampling  could  satisfy  the  requirements  set  out  in  paragraph  71  of  the  Guidelines,  which  ask  that 
“comprehensive vetting procedures” should be in place in order to “adequately assess the eligibility of 
controllers and processors to sign up and comply with the code”. Therefore, the Board recommends 
that the DE SA deletes reference to “representative random sampling”. 

Section 2.6.1.3 of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements, which refers to the verification of the 
application  and  monitoring  of  compliance  with  the  code  of  conduct,  seems  reduce  the  possible 
monitoring procedures. Depending on the context of the code of conduct, the Board considers that a 
larger variety of monitoring procedures could also lead to an efficient verification of the application 
and monitoring of compliance with the code of conduct. For this reason, the Board encourages the DE 
SAs to redraft this section. For example, references to ad hoc inspections in case of complaints against 
a particular code member or on site visits to assess compliance with the code could be included, in line 
with paragraph 72 of the Guidelines. 

The Board notes that, with regard to the design of the relevant code of conduct, additional tasks may 
arise for the monitoring bodies of the respective code of conduct (section 2.6.1.5 of the DE SAs’ draft 
accreditation requirements). The Board acknowledges that, but encourages the DE SA to ensure that 
these  additional  tasks  will  not  impair  the  effectiveness  and  impartiality  of  the  monitoring  body’s 
monitoring activities.  

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

The Board notes that section 4.2 of the DE SAs’ draft accreditation requirements states that publication 
of the complaints should be carried out both by the monitoring body and the code members. Similar 
considerations  can  be  made  with  regards  to  section  3.1  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements 
devoted to the code members’ obligations to provide the monitoring body with the contact details and 
contact  persons  of  code  members.  The  Board  encourages  the  DE  SAs  not  to  include  obligations 
imposed  on  code  members  in  the  requirements  for  monitoring  bodies  and  redraft  these  sections 
accordingly. 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

21. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the German Supervisory Authorities of the Federation and the 
Länder  may  lead  to  an  inconsistent  application  of  the  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  and  the 
following changes need to be made: 

22.  Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the DE SAs: 

1.  specify,  in  section  3,  that  the  core  elements  of  the  monitoring  body’s  function  will  be 
included in the code of conduct. 

23.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the DE SAs: 

Adopted 

7 

1. include the explicit obligation to demonstrate independence in relation to the accountability 
of the monitoring body. 

2. redraft section 2.2.2 describing the monitoring body’s responsibilities in a general manner, 
with regards to the adequacy of its financial resources. 

24.  Regarding conflict of interest the Board recommends that the DE SAs: 

1.  add  the  words  “and  obligations”  after  the  word  “requirements”  and  deletes  the  word 
“essentially” from the first bullet point under section 2.5.    

25.  Regarding established procedures and structures the Board recommends that the DE SAs: 

1. delete the reference to “representative random sampling” from section 2.6.1.2. 

  FINAL REMARKS 

26. 

This opinion is addressed to the German supervisory authorities of the Federation and the Länder and 
will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

27.  According  to  Article  64  (7)  and  (8)  GDPR,  the  DE  SAs  shall  communicate  to  the Chair  by  electronic 
means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether they will amend or maintain their draft 
decision. Within the same period, they shall provide the amended draft decision or where they do not 
intend to follow the opinion of the Board, they shall provide the relevant grounds for which they do 
not intend to follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

28. 

The DE SAs shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions 
that have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

8 

