media information
Saxon data protection officer

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider
extension
Telephone +49 351 85471 120
Fax +49 351 85471 109
sdb.presse@slt.sachsen.de*
05/13/2022

Start of the 2022 census – Dr. Juliane Hundert: »Compliance
of data protection is controlled«

On May 15th, the 2022 census will start in Saxony
Population, building and housing census.
The State Statistical Office organizes the survey, in which around 15
Percent of the Saxon population as part of a household survey
to disclose personal information about themselves. The legal
The basis is in particular that passed by the federal legislature
Census Act 2022, according to which respondents have an obligation to provide information.
The law also contains detailed regulations on data protection and
for data processing.
The Saxon Data Protection Officer Dr. Juliane Hundred:
“In his landmark census judgment from the
year 1983
the Federal Constitutional Court has the fundamental right to information
committed to self-determination. The judges have the state
set clear limits in population surveys. He has to go under
create a legal basis as well as organizational and
take procedural precautions to ensure that the data collected
not fall into the wrong hands. In practice this means, for example,
that statistical details of a person interviewed are strictly confidential
are to be held. They may not be sent to administrative authorities or private individuals
be issued. With my authority I will be at the 2022 census
randomly check whether the data protection regulations
be respected. After all, citizens have a right
that the state always processes your data in a legally compliant manner.«
In the census, for example, respondents have information about their
housing situation, for education and gainful employment.

Page 1 of 2

Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden

https://www.saechsdsb.de

To reach with the
Tram line 4
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)

* No access for encrypted
electronic documents. Access
for qualified electronic signatures
Documents only under the on
www.lsf.sachsen.de/eSignatur.html
noted conditions.

Part of the survey
is the household survey. take at the same time
Representatives of the State Statistical Office personally contact the
persons responsible for providing information.
The second pillar is the census of buildings and dwellings (GWZ). All
owners and administrators
of residential property will receive mail on this. At the GWZ, no
personal contact was made by survey officers. To
interviewers receive access data for the online questionnaire. Over
You can also request a paper questionnaire via a hotline.

Left:
census.sachsen.de
census2022.de

Page 2 of 2

