1540-2016

Decision

Diary no

2019-06-28

143-2017

The care committee
Uppsala municipality
The care administration
753 75 Uppsala

Supervision according to the Data Protection Regulation (EU)
2016/679 – authorization allocation, blocks,
etc. according to the Patient Data Act
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Data Inspectorate notes that the Care Board in Uppsala municipality
processes personal data in violation of Article 32 of the Data Protection Regulation,
by:
1.

The supervisory board has not limited the users' authorizations to
only what is needed for the user to be able to fulfill their
tasks within health care. The Board of Trustees i
Uppsala Municipality has thus processed personal data in violation of
4 ch. § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act (2008:355) and Chapter 4. Section 2
The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general advice on record keeping and
processing of personal data in healthcare (HSLF-FS
2016:40).

2. The welfare board does not have technical functions for barriers i
the record system Siebel between the Care Board and the Elderly Board
in Uppsala municipality, regarding the care documentation i
"Observandum". The care board in Uppsala municipality has therefore
processed personal data in violation of ch. 4 Section 4 and Chapter 5 Section 4
the patient data act.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

The Data Inspectorate instructs the Supervisory Board in Uppsala municipality to:
1.

After a needs and risk analysis assign each user individually
authorization for access to personal data in the Siebel journal system
to what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill their duties
duties within health care, in accordance with ch. 4 Section 2
and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.

2. Introduce technical functions for blocks in the journal system Siebel
between the Care Board and the Elderly Board in Uppsala
municipality according to ch. 4 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act.

Information
On May 25, 2018, the EU's data protection regulation began to apply. Since
The data protection regulation is directly applicable in Sweden, as well as in the others
the member states within the EU, it is consequently the provisions of the regulation
which must now be applied when processing personal data.
The Patient Data Act and the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general advice on
record keeping and processing of personal data in healthcare
(HSLF-FS 2016:40), constitutes supplementary legislation as far as
personal data processing in healthcare.
Before the data protection regulation came into force, the government appointed a
investigation - the Social Data Protection Investigation - which has reviewed
the register statutes within the Ministry of Social Affairs' area of activity,
for example, the Patient Data Act and HSLF-FS 2016:40. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
notes that with regard to the provisions of the Patient Data Act that are current
in this decision, these are essentially unchanged.
The Data Inspectorate's inspection of the Care Board in Uppsala municipality
was carried out before the data protection regulation came into force, why
the inspection not in this decision will make use of the corrective
the powers as far as penalty fees are concerned.

2 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has examined the care board and the board for the elderly
assignment of authorizations, log checks and asked questions within the framework of
the coherent record keeping in terms of the Siebel record system
(hereinafter the journal system).
An inspection was carried out at the care board and the elderly board
on 3 February 2017. The Data Inspectorate reviewed the municipal health and
the healthcare system's processing of personal data relating to patients within
the framework of the records system.
The welfare board received supplementary information on 24 February 2017
to the Swedish Data Protection Authority and provided certain views on
the inspection report.
On 25 October 2018, the Swedish Data Protection Authority requested that the care board should
provide supplementary information, due to the fact that the processing had
taken longer than expected. Above all, the inspection wanted to know about
the processing of personal data in the record system had changed in relation
until the inspection was carried out on 3 February 2017.
Statement from the care board was received by the Data Inspectorate on 13 November
2018, and i.a. the following appears. "The processing of personal data in
the record system has not changed in relation to when the inspection was done.
However, it can be mentioned that the municipality has started a procurement of future
documentation system which will replace Siebel. The idea is thus that
a new record system must be in place in 2019 or at least 2020.”
The Data Inspection Authority has delimited its supervision in such a way that the review concerns
authorization assignment and blocks in the records system.
The welfare board has essentially stated the following.
General information about municipal health care
Since January 1, 2017, Uppsala municipality has divided the responsibility for it
municipal health care on two different boards - the care board
and the Elderly Board.

3 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

The care committee
The welfare board is responsible for information regarding the municipal commitment
according to the Health and Medical Care Act for persons under the age of 65 who are covered by
the Act on support and services for certain disabled people (LSS) or who have one
physical disability. The care board's activities are conducted by
The care administration under the leadership of an administration director.
The administration is primarily responsible for home health care in special accommodation for
disabled and ordinary accommodation for people who have received a decision according to
LSS or the Social Services Act (SOL) and are under 65 years of age. The administration has also
employed certified personnel who are organized in their own department with
head of department and head of operations according to the Health and Healthcare Act (HSL)
as well as its own medically responsible nurse (MAS).
Elderly Committee
The Elderly Committee is responsible for information regarding municipal commitments according to
HSL for people over 65, but not for people covered by LSS or
who has a mental disability. The Elderly Board's activities
is run by the Elderly Administration under the leadership of an administration director.
The Elderly Administration is responsible for home health care in special residences for the elderly
and home health care in ordinary accommodation for those over 65. MAS is organized in a
quality and development unit with a head of department. Area manager as well
operations manager according to HSL is available for ordinary accommodation organized under
head of department for home care. All special residences for the elderly have their own
head of operations HSL, which is organized under head of department at
the housing department. The elderly administration has a staff that is responsible for
strategic healthcare issues as well as procurement, agreements and
contract follow-up.
Emergency medical care
In Uppsala municipality, there are several private actors that carry out municipal services
home health care. Their assignments are governed by agreements between the committees and them
the private suppliers. During the inspection, it was stated that Uppsala municipality
agreement on health care with the private care providers only
refers to the time between 07-17. Other times, i.e. between 17-07, it is the municipality
who are responsible for patients within the municipal health care and
for the patients of the private healthcare providers.
Of the supplementary information received by the Data Protection Authority on 24
February 2017 it emerged that in terms of health and medical interventions in

4 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

ordinary residence (i.e. for the person who still lives in their home) has
the home care providers are responsible for healthcare efforts between 7-16. When it
in the case of special accommodation, the private actors are responsible between 7-22. Other
time, individuals' needs for health and medical services are met by it
municipal day care, i.e. part of the municipality's own management.
The elderly administration provides all health and medical care during on-call hours, "on-call health care",
also for users who belong to the care board's area of responsibility or who
The committees have a principal responsibility for but which are run by private companies
actors.
The personal data responsibility for the processing of personal data i
the record system regarding the municipal health care i
Uppsala municipality
The welfare board states that the boards are responsible for personal data
respective committee's area of responsibility according to the Patient Data Act. It appears that a
patient can be current within both the care committee and the elderly committee.
Personal data processing in the records system
The journal system has been used within Uppsala municipality since June 2012 and that
it is the municipality that manages the operation of the system. The journal system is used both
in health care and social services. The journal entries from
however, the various areas of operation are separated.
At the top of the patient's record is shown if there is specific information about
the patient under the heading "warning or observandum". In order to "warning or
observandum" must appear in the journal, a regular journal entry is written and
the row is marked with keyword 1 "observandum" and then with keyword 2
"warning, infection or observation". Warnings are e.g. allergies and these
marked with a red triangle. Contagion and observations are marked with one
exclamation mark. Observandum is always visible in the patient's medical record
patient safety reasons. It is due to a previous complaint that has been decided
to do this.
Authorization assignment
The document Siebel – Organizational Tree Patient Journal shows the following.
Permission level 1 – “Journals are only available for play. staff within
one and the same organization, in this case for leg. staff within Uppsala

5 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

municipality (own management). This means that when leg. staff within Uppsala municipality
(own direction) writes a journal entry for a client and everyone has fun. staff
within the own organization access to it regardless of which
business area/operational area leg. the staff are placed in/work in.
This is because journals are created/written at the highest level (Level 1),
which means that the customer always has a journal regardless of whether it is current within
several business areas/activity areas within Uppsala municipality (own
directing).


Legitimate personnel, regardless of where they are located, write
always in the same journal.



If the patient moves to another unit/department, regardless of where in
organization, the patient record remains intact. Example:
Legitimate staff at a special accommodation can continue to work in one
initiated care plan, created by licensed staff at one
shift care accommodation.



The journal is not affected in the event of a possible reorganization.



As long as a caring relationship exists, no dialogue needs to take place outside
the business system (fax, email, telephone, etc.). This leads to a pile
patient safety.”

Authorization level 2 – The private caregivers establish/keep records at the intermediate level (Level 2), "which means that leg. staff working with the same customer
but who is placed/works in another business area/operational area
do not have the opportunity to read the journal entry. It also means that it is
confidentiality between the various business areas/operational areas including
that each business area/activity area prepares its own journal for
customer with whom you have a care relationship. In other words, one customer can have several
journals within one and the same organization as this takes place at Level 2."
Privilege Level 3 – Grants access to records for one or more devices.
During the inspection, a list was submitted to the Data Inspectorate - Order
system role - which describes the various roles that exist in the business system.
This list shows, among other things, that certain roles – such as nurses,
occupational therapists and physical therapists/physiotherapists - have authorization level 1.
No need and risk analysis has been presented by the care board.

6 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

Consolidated record keeping according to ch. 6. the patient data act
The welfare board states that the municipal health and medical care participates in
system for coherent record keeping through national patient overview
(NPÖ) and through the journal system. Before the consolidated record keeping
was introduced in the municipality, investigations were carried out to check that
implementation was correct. The municipality considers that the requirements of
6 ch. the patient data act.
There are guidelines for the coherent record keeping within it
municipal health care. It is included in the operating system
municipal health care together with about 10 private care providers.
The document Guidelines for information management and record keeping in force
health care has been submitted to the Data Inspectorate.
So that health care personnel in the municipality can take part
data from and make data available to private healthcare providers, who also
uses the record system, the patient's consent must first be obtained.
The municipality states that obtained consent only means that current
caregivers are given the opportunity to read other caregivers' notes. To
document consent is mandatory to enable reading by others
health care provider's record.
The municipality carried out information efforts aimed at the municipality's
citizens in connection with systems for coherent record keeping
was introduced. There is also information about coherent record keeping at
the municipality's website.
The staff who obtain the patient's consent to share information
through coherent record keeping, provides information to the patient in connection
with consent being obtained.
Block (consolidated record keeping)
The care board states that the patient can block his medical record so that private
care providers cannot take part in his task through the record system.
The patient does not block a particular care provider, but the patient blocks everyone
opportunity for all other caregivers to read. The latches can only be lifted off
the care provider by whom the block is established, regardless of whether it is a private one
caregivers or caregivers in Uppsala municipality.

7 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

However, there is no possibility for the patient to block their data such as
is processed by the care committee for the elderly council and vice versa. One
discussion is ongoing within the municipality about which measures must be taken with
due to the reorganization of the municipal health and medical care.
Documentation of the access (logs)
All roles that have access to patient data in the business system
is logged, including e.g. technicians who need access to the system.
The welfare board's opinion is that the logs contain all that information
as the Patient Data Act and the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations (SOSFS 2008:14) on
record keeping and information management in health care prescribes.
The municipality also carries out log checks.

Reason for the decision
Authorization assignment in the records system
It appears from ch. 4. § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act, that the healthcare provider must
determine conditions for granting authorization for access to such
information about patients that is fully or partially automated. Such
authorization must be limited to what is necessary for the individual to be able to
fulfill their duties in health care.
Of ch. 4 §§ 1-3 HSLF-FS 2016:40 states that the care provider must be responsible for
each user is assigned an individual authorization for access to
personal data and before he decides on the allocation of authority, shall
a needs and risk analysis is carried out.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The provisions of the Patient Data Act aim to take care of both
privacy protection and patient safety, see ch. 1 Section 2 of the Patient Data Act.
The legislator has thus made a balance regarding how the information
must be processed to meet both patient safety and privacy requirements.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that the requirements of the healthcare provider
authorization allocation in ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act is clear.
The right must be limited to what is needed for the individual to be able to

8 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

fulfill their duties within health care, based on a needs and risk analysis in accordance with ch. 4. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can further state that all authorized personnel within
the care board has been assigned authorization level 1, which means that they have
access to all journals created/written at this level.
Because different users have different tasks within different
work areas, this is a wider authorization than what is permitted under
the patient data act. Restriction of a user's permissions must be done
based on a needs and risk analysis both within the framework of internal confidentiality,
and within the framework of the coherent record keeping.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the welfare board has not limited
users' permissions to only what is needed for the user to
be able to fulfill their duties in health care.
The welfare board has thus processed personal data in violation of article
32 of the data protection regulation and ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and
4 ch. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore instructs the welfare board to, after a need-and
risk analysis assign each user individual authorization for access to
personal data in the journal system Siebel, to what is needed for it
individuals must be able to fulfill their duties within the health care i
in accordance with ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 2
HSLF-FS 2016:40.
The patient's right to block the record system
The rules on the care provider's obligation to provide an opportunity for
the patient to block their care documentation in the IT system can be found in
4 ch. § 4 and ch. 6 Section 2 of the Patient Data Act. Further supplemented
the patient data act's provisions of HSLF-FS 2016:40. See especially ch. 4. Section 5 and
4 ch. §§ 7-8 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
Of ch. 4 Section 4 first paragraph of the Patient Data Act states that personal data which
documented for purposes specified in ch. 2. § 4 points 1 and 2 of a
care unit or within a care process, may not be made available through
electronic access for those who work at another care unit or within one
another care process with the same care provider, if the patient opposes it. IN

9 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

in such cases, the data must be blocked immediately. Guardians of a child have, however
no right to withhold the child's data. Information that there are blocked
data may be available to other care units or care processes.
Of ch. 6 Section 2, fourth paragraph of the Patient Data Act states that if a patient
objects to information other than those specified in the second paragraph of the same
team rooms are made available to other caregivers through cohesiveness
record keeping, the data must be blocked immediately. The guardian of a child
however, cannot block information about the child. It is thus clear from the paragraph that
the patient's right to object to information being made available in it
coherent record keeping includes all information, except information about
that there are blocked data and which care provider has blocked them.
It further follows from ch. 5. Section 4 of the Patient Data Act that disclosure through
direct access to personal data is only permitted to the extent that
specified in law or regulation. It follows from the second paragraph that if a county council or a
municipality provides health care through several authorities, receives one
authority have direct access to personal data processed by someone
other such authority in the same county council or municipality.
"The fact that direct access in a certain case is allowed within a
however, the carer's organization does not affect the application of those regulations
which implies other limitations of the possibilities to in a specific
care situation get access to personal data, e.g. the rules on blocking of
personal data according to chapter 4." (See prop. 2007/08:126, p. 245).
The supervisory board has stated that the information in the "Observandum" is always
visible in the patient's record for patient safety reasons, due to
previous complaints.
The welfare board has further stated that there is no possibility for
the patient to block their data that is processed by the care board for
the elderly council and vice versa.
However, the care committee has stated that it is technically possible to block the patient's
data against all other care providers within the framework of the integrated
record keeping and that the block can only be lifted by the healthcare provider who
established the barrier.

1 0 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The patient's right to block applies both in the internal confidentiality as well as in
system for coherent record keeping. When the patient requests that his
care documentation must be blocked, the care documentation cannot be found
electronically available to other care units or care processes
or, via direct access, for other healthcare providers.
There is no legal possibility for the care provider to make certain exceptions
care documentation from the patient's blocking option within the framework of the internal
the secrecy. This means that if the patient requests it, the care provider must block
all care documentation in the record system – which includes
care documentation found in "Observandum".
Against the background of the above, the Data Inspectorate notes that
the care board does not have technical functions for blocks in the records system
Siebel between the care board and the elderly board, where applicable
the care documentation in "Observandum". The welfare board has thus
processed personal data in violation of Article 32 of the Data Protection Regulation and
4 ch. Section 4 and Chapter 5 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority instructs the care board to introduce technical
functions for barriers in the records system between the care board and
the elderly council according to ch. 4 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act.

This decision has been made by unit manager Katarina Tullstedt after a presentation
by the lawyer Maria Bergdahl.

Katarina Tullstedt
Maria Bergdahl

1 1 (12)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

Copy to:
Data Protection Officer (via e-mail for information)
The Inspectorate for Care and Welfare

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision is being appealed and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. The Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards the appeal
to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination if the inspection does not itself
changes the decision in the way you have requested.

1 2 (12)

