1540-2016

Decision

Diary no

2019-06-28

143-2017

Elderly Committee
Uppsala municipality
The elderly administration
753 75 Uppsala

Supervision according to the Data Protection Regulation (EU)
2016/679 – authorization allocation, blocks,
etc. according to the Patient Data Act
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Data Inspectorate states that the Elderly Board in Uppsala municipality
processes personal data in violation of Article 32 of the Data Protection Regulation,
by:
1.

The Elderly Board has not limited the users' authorizations to
only what is needed for the user to be able to fulfill their
tasks within health care. Elderly Board in Uppsala
The municipality has thus processed personal data in violation of ch. 4. Section 2
and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act (2008:355) and Chapter 4. Section 2
The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general advice on record keeping and
processing of personal data in healthcare (HSLF-FS
2016:40).

2. Night nurses within the senior citizens' board's day care take part
patients' unblocked personal data with other healthcare providers without
consent from the patients. The elderly council in Uppsala municipality has
thus processed personal data in violation of ch. 6 Section 3
the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 6 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
3. The Board of Elders does not have technical functions for barriers i
the record system Siebel between the Elderly Board and the Care Board

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

in Uppsala municipality, regarding the care documentation i
"Observandum". The elderly council in Uppsala municipality has thus
processed personal data in violation of ch. 4 Section 4 and Chapter 5 Section 4
the patient data act.
The Data Inspectorate further states that the Elderly Board in Uppsala municipality
processes personal data in violation of Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation,
by:
4. Night nurses within the senior citizens' board keep records in those of other care providers
patient records in healthcare during on-call hours. By the elderly council
records in other healthcare providers' patient records do not comply
the elderly council the requirements in ch. 3. § 1 of the Patient Data Act and neither his
personal data responsibility according to Article 5 of the data protection regulation.
The Elderly Board can neither be responsible for nor show that they treat
the personal data in a legal and correct manner or ensure that
the data is correct and if necessary updated, neither
that the data is processed in a way that ensures appropriate security
for the personal data – including protection against unauthorized or unauthorized access
processing and against loss, destruction or damage by
accident.
The Data Inspectorate instructs the Elderly Board in Uppsala municipality to:
1.

After a needs and risk analysis assign each user individually
authorization for access to personal data in the Siebel journal system
to what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill their duties
duties within health care, in accordance with ch. 4 Section 2
and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.

2. Stop giving users access to patients' unblocked
personal data of other healthcare providers, without consent and without that
there are reasons for an exception according to ch. 6 § 3 and ch. 6 Section 4
the patient data act.
3. Introduce technical functions for blocks in the journal system Siebel
between the Elderly Board and the Care Board in Uppsala
municipality according to ch. 4 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act.

2 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

4. Ensure that all record keeping takes place in the elderly council's own patient records.

Information
On May 25, 2018, the EU's data protection regulation began to apply. Since
The data protection regulation is directly applicable in Sweden, as well as in the others
the member states within the EU, it is consequently the provisions of the regulation
which must now be applied when processing personal data.
The Patient Data Act and the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general advice on
record keeping and processing of personal data in healthcare
(HSLF-FS 2016:40), constitutes supplementary legislation as far as
personal data processing in healthcare.
Before the data protection regulation came into force, the government appointed a
investigation - the Social Data Protection Investigation - which has reviewed
the register statutes within the Ministry of Social Affairs' area of activity,
for example, the Patient Data Act and HSLF-FS 2016:40. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
notes that with regard to the provisions of the Patient Data Act that are current
in this decision, these are essentially unchanged.
The Data Inspectorate's inspection of the Elderly Board in Uppsala municipality
was carried out before the data protection regulation came into force, why
the inspection not in this decision will make use of the corrective
the powers as far as penalty fees are concerned.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has reviewed the Elderly Board and the Care Board
assignment of authorizations, log checks and asked questions within the framework of
the coherent record keeping in terms of the Siebel record system
(hereinafter the journal system).
An inspection was carried out at the care board and the elderly board
on 3 February 2017. The Data Inspectorate reviewed the municipal health and
the healthcare system's processing of personal data relating to patients within
the framework of the records system.

3 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

The elderly committee received additional information on 24 February 2017
The Swedish Data Protection Authority and provided some comments on the inspection protocol.
On 25 October 2018, the Swedish Data Protection Authority requested that the elderly council should
provide supplementary information, due to the fact that the processing had
taken longer than expected. Above all, the inspection wanted to know about
the processing of personal data in the record system had changed in relation
until the inspection was carried out on 3 February 2017.
Statement from the elderly council was received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority on 13 November
2018, and i.a. the following appears. "The processing of personal data in
the record system has not changed in relation to when the inspection was made.
However, it can be mentioned that the municipality has started a procurement of future
documentation system which will replace Siebel. The idea is thus that
a new record system must be in place in 2019 or at least 2020.”
The Data Inspection Authority has delimited its supervision in such a way that the review concerns
authorization assignment and blocks in the records system.
The elderly committee has essentially stated the following.
General information about municipal health care
Since January 1, 2017, Uppsala municipality has divided the responsibility for it
municipal health care on two different committees – the elderly committee and
the care committee.
Elderly Committee
The Elderly Committee is responsible for information regarding municipal commitments according to
The Health Care Act (HSL) for people over 65, but not for
persons covered by the Act on support and service to certain persons
disabled persons (LSS) or who have a mental disability.
The Elderly Board's activities are conducted by the Elderly Administration under the direction of
an administrative director. The Elderly Administration is responsible for home health care in
special accommodation for the elderly and home health care in ordinary accommodation for those over 65
year. MAS (medically responsible nurse) is organized in a quality and
development unit with a head of department. Area manager as well
operations manager according to HSL is available for ordinary accommodation organized under
head of department for home care. All special residences for the elderly have their own
head of operations HSL, which is organized under head of department at

4 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

the housing department. The elderly administration has a staff that is responsible for
strategic healthcare issues as well as procurement, agreements and
contract follow-up.
The welfare board has stated the following
The welfare board is responsible for information regarding the municipal commitment
according to HSL for people under 65 who are covered by LSS or who have one
physical disability. The care board's activities are conducted by
The care administration under the leadership of an administration director.
The administration is primarily responsible for home health care in special accommodation for
disabled and ordinary accommodation for people who have received a decision according to
LSS or the Social Services Act (SOL) and are under 65 years of age. The administration has also
employed certified personnel who are organized in their own department with
head of department and operations manager according to HSL and own MAS.
Emergency medical care
In Uppsala municipality, there are several private actors that carry out municipal services
home health care. Their assignments are governed by agreements between the committees and them
the private suppliers. During the inspection, it was stated that Uppsala municipality
agreement on health care with the private care providers only
refers to the time between 07-17. Other times, i.e. between 17-07, it is the municipality
who are responsible for patients within the municipal health care and
for the patients of the private healthcare providers.
Of the supplementary information received by the Data Protection Authority on 24
February 2017 it emerged that in terms of health and medical interventions in
ordinary residence (i.e. for the person who still lives in their home) has
the home care providers are responsible for healthcare efforts between 7-16. When it
in the case of special accommodation, the private actors are responsible between 7-22. Other
time, individuals' needs for health and medical services are met by it
municipal day care, i.e. part of the municipality's own management.
The elderly administration provides all health and medical care during on-call hours "on-call health care",
also for users who belong to the care board's area of responsibility or who
The committees have a principal responsibility for but which are run by private companies
actors.

5 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

The personal data responsibility for the processing of personal data i
the record system regarding the municipal health care i
Uppsala municipality
The Elderly Board states that the boards are responsible for personal data
respective committee's area of responsibility according to the Patient Data Act. It appears that a
patient can be current within both the care committee and the elderly committee.
With regard to the activity referred to as "emergency care", the Elderly Board based on the definition stated in ch. 2. Section 6 of the Patient Data Act - assessed that
the responsibility for personal data is linked to the processing by an authority purely
actually perform. Because the executing authority in this case is
the elderly council, the municipality has made the assessment that the elderly council
is responsible for the processing of personal data in the business system as far as
documentation relating to medical care during on-call hours.
Personal data processing in the records system
The journal system has been used within Uppsala municipality since June 2012 and that
it is the municipality that manages the operation of the system. The journal system is used both
in health care and social services. The journal entries from
however, the various areas of operation are separated.
At the top of the patient's record is shown if there is specific information about
the patient under the heading "warning or observandum". In order to "warning or
observandum" must appear in the journal, a regular journal entry is written and
the row is marked with keyword 1 "observandum" and then with keyword 2
"warning, infection or observation". Warnings are e.g. allergies and these
marked with a red triangle. Contagion and observations are marked with one
exclamation mark. Observandum is always visible in the patient's medical record
patient safety reasons. It is due to a previous complaint that has been decided
to do this.
Authorization assignment
The document Siebel – Organizational Tree Patient Journal shows the following.
Permission level 1 – “Journals are only available for play. staff within
one and the same organization, in this case for leg. staff within Uppsala
municipality (own management). This means that when leg. staff within Uppsala municipality
(own direction) writes a journal entry for a client and everyone has fun. staff
within the own organization access to it regardless of which

6 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

business area/operational area leg. the staff are placed in/work in.
This is because journals are created/written at the highest level (Level 1),
which means that the customer always has a journal regardless of whether it is current within
several business areas/activity areas within Uppsala municipality (own
directing).


Legitimate personnel, regardless of where they are located, write
always in the same journal.



If the patient moves to another unit/department, regardless of where in
organization, the patient record remains intact. Example:
Legitimate staff at a special accommodation can continue to work in one
initiated care plan, created by licensed staff at one
shift care accommodation.



The journal is not affected in the event of a possible reorganization.



As long as a caring relationship exists, no dialogue needs to take place outside
the business system (fax, email, telephone, etc.). This leads to a pile
patient safety.”

Authorization level 2 – The private caregivers establish/keep records at the intermediate level (Level 2), "which means that leg. staff working with the same customer
but who is placed/works in another business area/operational area
do not have the opportunity to read the journal entry. It also means that it is
confidentiality between the various business areas/operational areas including
that each business area/activity area prepares its own journal for
customer with whom you have a care relationship. In other words, one customer can have several
journals within one and the same organization as this takes place at Level 2."
Privilege Level 3 – Grants access to records for one or more devices.
During the inspection, a list was submitted to the Data Inspectorate - Order
system role - which describes the different roles that exist in the record system. Of
this list appears i.a. that certain roles – such as nurses,
occupational therapists and physical therapists/physiotherapists - have authorization level 1.
No need and risk analysis has been presented by the elderly council.
Emergency medical care
The Elderly Board states that the night nurses, about 15-20 nurses, work
on duty at night and all of these nurses are employed by
the elderly council. These nurses have authorizations for tasks i
the record system attributable to patients within the municipal health

7 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

and healthcare, partly to information about patients with the private healthcare providers.
To be able to log in to the private healthcare providers' patient records use
themselves the nurses of so-called positioning. Positioning means that
the nurses change the unit/organizational part they are currently in
work based on, for example which care provider or which unit within
the care provider that they work from. It is only these night nurses who
has the current positioning option.
Night nurses who visit patients of the private care providers log in and
records in the private care provider's record. There is no consent from
current patients to staff within the municipal health and
the healthcare system may be given access to the patient data of the private healthcare providers i
the journal system.
The municipality's view is that it is the municipal care provider who is
responsible care provider during the times of the day when there is no agreement with
the private caregivers. The municipality considers this to be purely problematic
legally, regardless of how big or small the private healthcare provider is.
Integrated record keeping according to ch. 6. the patient data act
The Elderly Committee states that the municipal health and medical care participates in
system for coherent record keeping through national patient overview
(NPÖ) and through the journal system. Before the consolidated record keeping
was introduced in the municipality, investigations were carried out to check that
implementation was correct. The municipality considers that the requirements of
6 ch. the patient data act.
There are guidelines for the coherent record keeping within it
municipal health care. The record system includes the municipal one
the health care together with about 10 private care providers. The document
Guidelines for information management and record keeping regarding health and
healthcare has been submitted to the Data Inspectorate.
So that health care personnel in the municipality can take part
information from and make information available to private healthcare providers who also
uses the journal system, except for what was previously stated
regarding night nurses in case of day care, the patient's consent is required
first obtained. The municipality states that obtained consent only means that
the current caregiver is given the opportunity to read other caregivers' notes. To

8 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

document consent is mandatory to enable reading by others
health care provider's record.
The municipality carried out information efforts aimed at the municipality's
citizens in connection with systems for coherent record keeping
was introduced. There is also information about coherent record keeping at
the municipality's website.
The staff who obtain the patient's consent to share information
through coherent record keeping, provides information to the patient in connection
with consent being obtained.
Block (consolidated record keeping)
The Elderly Board states that the patient can block his medical record so that private
care providers cannot take part in his task through the record system.
The patient does not block a particular care provider, but the patient blocks everyone
opportunity for all other caregivers to read. The latches can only be lifted off
the care provider by whom the block is established, regardless of whether it is a private one
caregivers or caregivers in Uppsala municipality.
However, there is no possibility for the patient to block their data such as
is processed by the seniors' board for the care board and vice versa. One
discussion is ongoing within the municipality about which measures must be taken with
due to the reorganization of the municipal health and medical care.
Documentation of the access (logs)
All roles that have access to patient data in the records system
is logged, including e.g. technicians who need access to the system.
The elder board's opinion is that the logs contain all that information
as the Patient Data Act and the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations (SOSFS 2008:14) on
record keeping and information management in health care prescribes.
The municipality also carries out log checks.

9 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

Reason for the decision
Authorization assignment in the records system
It appears from ch. 4. § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act, that the healthcare provider must
determine conditions for granting authorization for access to such
information about patients that is fully or partially automated. Such
authorization must be limited to what is necessary for the individual to be able to
fulfill their duties in health care.
Of ch. 4 §§ 1-3 HSLF-FS 2016:40 states that the care provider must be responsible for
each user is assigned an individual authorization for access to
personal data and before he decides on the allocation of authority, shall
a needs and risk analysis is carried out.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The provisions of the Patient Data Act aim to take care of both
privacy protection and patient safety, see ch. 1 Section 2 of the Patient Data Act.
The legislator has thus made a balance regarding how the information
must be processed to meet both patient safety and privacy requirements.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that the requirements of the healthcare provider
authorization allocation in ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act is clear.
The right must be limited to what is needed for the individual to be able to
fulfill their duties within health care, based on a needs and risk analysis in accordance with ch. 4. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can further state that all authorized personnel within
the elderly council has been assigned authorization level 1, which means that they have
access to all journals created/written at this level. Regarding
the night nurses at the elderly council have also been given the opportunity to
make use of so-called positioning in the journal system, which entails actual
access to all private health care providers' patient records in outpatient care without
the patients have consented to this.
Because different users have different tasks within different
work areas, this is a wider authorization than what is permitted under
the patient data act. Restriction of a user's permissions must be done
based on a needs and risk analysis both within the framework of internal confidentiality,
and within the framework of the coherent record keeping.

1 0 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the elderly council has not restricted
users' permissions to only what is needed for the user to
be able to fulfill their duties in health care.
The Elderly Board has thus processed personal data in violation of Article 32
the data protection regulation and ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and
4 ch. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore instructs the Elderly Board to, after a need-and
risk analysis assign each user individual authorization for access to
personal data in the journal system Siebel, to what is needed for it
individuals must be able to fulfill their duties within the health care i
in accordance with ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 2
HSLF-FS 2016:40.
One care provider's treatment of another care provider's unblocked
personal data
The provisions on the conditions under which a healthcare provider may treat
unblocked personal data made available by another healthcare provider
the system of coherent record keeping, can be found in ch. 6. Section 3
the patient data act. It states that three conditions must be met - it is required to
the information relates to a patient with whom there is a current care relationship, that
the data can be assumed to be important for prevention, investigation or treatment
diseases and injuries of the patient in the health and medical care and that
the patient consents to this.
It appears from the preparatory work for the Patient Data Act that active consent is required
from the patient's side (prop. 2007/08:126, p. 252 f).
Furthermore, ch. 4 follows. § 6 HSLF-FS 2016:40 that the care provider must be responsible for
an authorized user's access to unblocked data about a patient at a
another care provider, preceded by the user checking that the conditions
for the processing of personal data according to ch. 6 § 3 or § 3 a of the Patient Data Act
(2008:355) are fulfilled and then make an active choice to take part
the data.
The Elderly Committee has stated that the night nurses in day care can
make use of so-called positioning in the journal system - in order to get
access to some of the patients' personal data in the private healthcare providers'
medical records, partly to patients' personal data within the municipal health

1 1 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

and healthcare. Furthermore, records for the night nurses in the private ones
caregivers' records. The board has also stated that any consent from
the relevant patients have not been obtained before this happens.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that the board for the elderly has not obtained one
active consent from the patients of the private healthcare providers, before
the night nurses share the patients' personal data with the private ones
the caregivers.
An active consent is required before users at the Elderly Board may process
unblocked personal data that another healthcare provider has made available
through the system for coherent record keeping. For a caregiver to get
process data that a guardian does not have the right to block
according to section 2, fourth paragraph, second sentence, it is required that the conditions according to
first paragraph 1 and 2 or second paragraph 1 and 2 are fulfilled (see chapter 6, section 3
third paragraph of the Patient Data Act).
If there is danger to the patient's life or otherwise there is a serious risk of
his health, and consent cannot be obtained according to ch. 6. Section 3
patient data act, the healthcare provider can still process under certain conditions
the unblocked data, see ch. 6. Section 4, second paragraph of the Patient Data Act.
With regard to the consent issue, the Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the
the preparatory work shows that in some cases consent can be given in advance, before it
the current patient relationship has arisen (prop. 2007/08:126, p. 253).
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that night nurses within the elderly's board
ambulatory care receives patients' unblocked personal data from others
care providers without the consent of the patients, and without there being any
other exception according to ch. 6 § 3 and ch. 6 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act.
The Elderly Board has thus processed personal data in violation of Article 32
data protection regulation and ch. 6 Section 3 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 6
HSLF-FS 2016:40.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority instructs the Elderly Board to cease providing users
access to patients' unblocked personal data with other healthcare providers, without
consent and without there being a reason for an exception according to ch. 6. § 3 and
6 ch. Section 4 of the Patient Data Act.

1 2 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

The patient's right to block the record system
The rules on the care provider's obligation to provide an opportunity for
the patient to block their care documentation in the IT system can be found in
4 ch. § 4 and ch. 6 Section 2 of the Patient Data Act. Further supplemented
the patient data act's provisions of HSLF-FS 2016:40. See especially ch. 4. Section 5 and
4 ch. §§ 7-8 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
Of ch. 4 Section 4 first paragraph of the Patient Data Act states that personal data which
documented for purposes specified in ch. 2. § 4 points 1 and 2 of a
care unit or within a care process, may not be made available through
electronic access for those who work at another care unit or within one
another care process with the same care provider, if the patient opposes it. IN
in such cases, the data must be blocked immediately. Guardians of a child have, however
no right to withhold the child's data. Information that there are blocked
data may be available to other care units or care processes.
Of ch. 6 Section 2, fourth paragraph of the Patient Data Act states that if a patient
objects to information other than those specified in the second paragraph of the same
team rooms are made available to other caregivers through cohesiveness
record keeping, the data must be blocked immediately. The guardian of a child
however, cannot block information about the child. It is thus clear from the paragraph that
the patient's right to object to information being made available in it
coherent record keeping includes all information, except information about
that there are blocked data and which care provider has blocked them.
It further follows from ch. 5. Section 4 of the Patient Data Act that disclosure through
direct access to personal data is only permitted to the extent that
specified in law or regulation. It follows from the second paragraph that if a county council or a
municipality provides health care through several authorities, receives one
authority have direct access to personal data processed by someone
other such authority in the same county council or municipality.
"The fact that direct access in a certain case is allowed within a
however, the carer's organization does not affect the application of those provisions
which implies other limitations of the possibilities to in a specific
care situation get access to personal data, e.g. the rules on blocking of
personal data according to chapter 4", (see prop. 2007/08:126, p. 245).

1 3 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

The Board of Elders has stated that the information in "Observandum" is always visible in
the patient's medical record for patient safety reasons, due to previous
complaint.
The Elderly Board has further stated that there is no possibility for
the patient to withhold their data that is processed by the elderly council
the welfare board and vice versa.
However, the Elderly Committee has stated that it is technically possible to block the patient's
data against all other care providers within the framework of the integrated
record keeping and that the block can only be lifted by the healthcare provider who
established the barrier.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The patient's right to block applies both in the internal confidentiality as well as in
system for coherent record keeping. When the patient requests that his
care documentation must be blocked, the care documentation cannot be found
electronically available to other care units or care processes
or, via direct access, for other healthcare providers.
There is no legal possibility for the care provider to make certain exceptions
care documentation from the patient's blocking option within the framework of the internal
the secrecy. This means that if the patient requests it, the care provider must block
all care documentation in the record system – which includes
care documentation found in "Observandum".
Against the background of the above, the Data Inspectorate notes that
the elderly council does not have technical functions for blocks in the records system
Siebel between the Elderly Board and the Care Board, as far as
the care documentation in "Observandum". The Elderly Committee has therefore
processed personal data in violation of Article 32 of the Data Protection Regulation and
4 ch. Section 4 and Chapter 5 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority instructs the Elderly Board to introduce technical
functions for locks in the records system between the elderly council and
the welfare board according to ch. 4 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act.

1 4 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

A healthcare provider's duty to keep records
It appears from ch. 1. Section 1 of the Patient Data Act that this Act is applied to
healthcare providers' processing of personal data in healthcare.
In ch. 3 the same law contains explicit provisions regarding the obligation to
keep patient records. According to ch. 3 Section 1 of the Patient Data Act must in the case of care of
patients are kept in patient records.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Elderly Board is responsible for personal data for all processing of
personal data that takes place at the board, which includes processing of
personal data in patient records.
If a care provider records personal data with another care provider, i.e. in
patient records with other personal data controllers, this means that they most
the basic conditions in the Patient Data Act are not met.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that the night nurses keep records in
patient records with other personal data controllers. The record keeping requirement,
its accuracy, its preservation, etc. means that the record must be kept and
preserved by the elderly council. Legally, the elderly council's night nurses must
therefore only keep records of personal data in the records system of the Elderly Board.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the Elderly Board processes personal data in
violation of Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation, by night nurses
within the Elderly Board records in other healthcare providers' patient records, and not in
the own patient records, in case of medical care during on-call hours. By journaling
in the patient records of other healthcare providers, the elderly board does not meet the requirements in
3 ch. Section 1 of the Patient Data Act and thus not their personal data responsibility according to
Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation. The Board of Elders can neither be responsible for nor
demonstrate that they process the personal data in a legal and correct manner or
ensure that the data is correct and if necessary updated, neither
that the data is processed in a way that ensures appropriate security for
the personal data – including protection against unauthorized or unauthorized processing
and against loss, destruction or accidental damage.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority instructs the Elderly Board to ensure that all record keeping takes place
in the elderly council's own patient records.

1 5 (16)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

2019-06-28

Diary no

143-2017

This decision has been made by unit manager Katarina Tullstedt after a presentation
by the lawyer Maria Bergdahl.

Katarina Tullstedt
Maria Bergdahl

Copy to:
Data Protection Officer (via e-mail for information)
The Inspectorate for Care and Welfare

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision is being appealed and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. The Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards the appeal
to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination if the inspection does not itself
changes the decision in the way you have requested.

1 6 (16)

