
In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, when healthcare professionals work in extraordinary circumstances and thus collect a larger amount of personal data of patients (but also workers), numerous doubts arise about the processing of this data. In order to facilitate the health system's understanding of data protection regulations, the Personal Data Protection Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, organized an online workshop for health system employees on personal data protection and harmonization with the General Data Protection Regulation. which attracted many health professionals.
On behalf of the Personal Data Protection Agency and the Director, Mr. Zdravko Vukić, the participants were greeted by the advisor Iva Ivanković, who expressed satisfaction with the high turnout of participants. "We believe that this workshop will make it easier for healthcare professionals to understand data protection regulations and comply with the General Regulation, thus helping them to overcome the ambiguities they often encounter in their work."
Advisor to the President of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Head of the Department of Education and Information Security doc.dr.sc. Petar Mišević thanked the Agency for Personal Data Protection and Director Zdravko Vukić for choosing the Croatian Chamber of Commerce as a partner in this commendable project.
"Since the Regulation came into force two and a half years ago, we have been facing many difficulties, ie we still have some doubts, which is not surprising given that our sector processes a really large amount of personal data," said the president of the Private Health Sector. HGK prof.dr.sc. Krešimir Rotim.
The introductory part of the workshop explained the basic concepts from the General Regulation (such as who is the controller and executor and who is the respondent and what is personal data), the legal basis for personal data processing and what are the obligations of the controller and processor, with specific examples from health system.
Healthcare professionals working with special categories of personal data (patient health data) must be aware of all potential risks and implement enhanced precautions and protections to ensure the security and confidentiality of personal data in hospitals and other healthcare facilities in all segments of their personal data. processing. Therefore, the workshop described the technical and organizational measures that need to be implemented in order to protect data, but also what are the most common violations of personal data and how to prevent them.
However, the focus of the workshop was the processing of personal data in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, where the largest number of questions and ambiguities arise as to how to legally process patient data. Picking up and sending findings, filling out triage questionnaires, measuring temperature with a thermal camera, are just some of the current topics touched upon by the Agency's lecturers. It was pointed out that the health care institution must provide patients with all information related to the processing of personal data in a simple and easily accessible way when collecting personal data. (who is the controller, what is the purpose and legality of the processing, who has the right to access the said data, what is the retention period, what are the rights of the respondents regarding the processing of personal data…)
Finally, in order to obtain the complete information needed to comply with the General Regulation, workshop participants were introduced to the processing of personal data through cookies, the rights of respondents and the importance and role of data protection officers appointed by each institution. The Personal Data Protection Officer (DPO) is in fact the foundation of reliability, intermediary and competitive advantage, and the recommendations of the DPO were highlighted at the workshop.
The workshop "Personal Data Protection and Compliance with the General Regulation (GDPR) in the Health Sector during the COVID-19 Pandemic" was conducted as part of the European project ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs), implemented by the Personal Data Protection Agency as coordinator , while the Data Protection Commission, the Irish Data Protection Supervisor and Vrije University of Brussels are participating in the project as partners.
