THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

April 9, 2019

 

 

  Transparency protects academic freedom

LfDI Dr. Stefan Brink calls for more transparency in third-party funding

Universities in Baden-Württemberg

 

 

On March 14, 2019, the Society for Freedom Rights (GFF) published the

her commissioned report “University Industry Cooperation, Information

access and freedom of science” by Prof. dr. Klaus F. Gärditz, owner of the

Chair of Public Law at the Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms University

Bonn. Its conclusion is: "Cooperation between universities and industry

endanger freedom of science and information".

 

The report examines the cooperation agreements of the University of Mainz

the Boehringer Ingelheim Foundation, which is part of the Institute for Molecular Biology gGmbH

(IMB) has 100 million euros available over a funding period of 10 years

puts. In return for this cash injection, Boehringer Ingelheimer

co-determination rights in the concrete research activity as well as in employment

allow for conditions. The University of Mainz had refused to the end

to disclose the cooperation agreements. Professor Gärditz and the company

Society for Freedom Rights see this as a violation of the right to freedom of information.

 

Like many other freedom of information laws, the state freedom of information

Baden-Württemberg Health Act (LIFG) an exception to comprehensive transparency

rez for institutions with the task of independent scientific research

and universities, as far as research, art, teaching, performance reviews and

exams are affected. The legislator justifies this area exception because

with the fact that “the regulation protects the freedom of art and science. Enjoy these

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

- secured by Article 5 paragraph 3 GG or Article 20 paragraph 1 LV -

a high level of protection.” (L-Reg LT-Drs. 15/7720, 5).

 

If you look at the regulation of the State Higher Education Act (§ 41a LGH BW).

once you take a closer look, you'll notice that transparency isn't far off. Access to

only the Rectorate and

the senate of the respective university and the Ministry of Science within

of legal supervision. The report submitted makes it clear that

restricted transparency endangers academic freedom in this area in particular

and not strengthening.

 

Therefore, the State Commissioner for Freedom of Information, Dr. Stefan Brink, the

Global exception in favor of largely non-transparent third-party funding and

remove research cooperation from the LIFG and replace it with science-specific

to replace cal exemptions. This serves both to protect knowledge

corporate freedom as well as the strengthening of the required transparency of every university funding

change.

 

 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716.

 

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

 

