1/99

File No.: PS/00022/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection (as regards
hereafter, AEPD) and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant party one) dated August 6,
2019 files a claim with the AEPD. The claim is directed -among others-
against ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U. with NIF A82009812 (hereinafter, ORANGE) by
the following reasons:

“I want to report the processing of my data by Orange and Banco
Santander, which has allowed fraud to be carried out on my accounts
bank accounts of almost 15,000 euros.
Regarding Orange, someone impersonated my identity in front of an operator and consi-
He guided me to change my contact email, without the call being made from my mobile. Y
later, they got a duplicate of my SIM card, an essential step to
get the access data to my online banking.
Upon noticing, despite having put a safeword for
any procedure with Orange operators, they have not always asked me
(especially the first few days), so I can't be sure I can
happen again
Regarding Banco Santander, through several calls to the telephone line and
access to my keys online with the duplicate of the SIM card, they managed to change
change my electronic signature and carry out two cards in my name and several operations
(transfer of credit from said cards and transfers from my accounts to other
strangers), all this in a short period of time (from July 22 to 23
July, it is believed that from 7:30 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. that I realize), without
the Bank to contact me upon detecting so many movements (on
7 moves on 3 counts).
Apart from the claims filed against both the Bank and Orange, and
the judicial measures that it can carry out, I would like this Agency to take
precise and timely measures. (…)”

Together with the claim, it provides the complaint filed with the Civil Guard of Baiona
(Pontevedra), dated July 24, 2019, with certificate number ***CERTIFICATE.1
in which it states:

‘That the denouncer today, around 09:00 a.m. verified that her telephone
XIAOMI Mi A1 mobile phone-with number ***PHONE.1 of the company ORAN-
GE, with IMEI's number ***IMEI.1 and ***IMEI.2, stopped working.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/99

He went to the ORANGE store to ask what had happened, checked
store than the SIM card ***SIM.1 that was installed in the phone
mobile phone did not work, so they made a new SIM card ***SIM.2.
The store employee realized that the SIM card she had installed in her
phone did not match the one in the ORANGE database.
That the SIM card that appeared in the ORANGE database is ***SIM.3.
That at the time that the deponent installed the new SIM card ***SIM.2 she received
two text messages (SMS) from SANTEVIÓS, with an SMS code to transfer
5,000 euros and an SMS from INFOSNET with an SMS code to transfer
reference of 5000 euros.
That the demonstrator, once the change request form is delivered
notice that the email ***EMAIL ACCOUNT.1 does not correspond
with the email provided to ORANGE. That the email you provided is ***ACCOUNT
MAIL.2(…)
 That the protester gets in touch with ORANGE by phone through the
1470 and they inform ORANGE that two calls were made, one to change
change the email and another to request the duplicate of the SIM card, call
calls that were made on 07/22/20219, one at 2:00 p.m. and the other at
19:15 hours stating the number of the latter ***NUMBER.1.
That from the ORANGE store they enter the user profile and it is observed that
there are five calls to the telephone number ***TELÉFONO.2 that corresponds
to Santander's online banking (...)

That the protester examines the movements of her three bank accounts and
of his two cards and observe:

Which unknown author(s) had made a transfer of the VISA card
***VISA.1 for the amounts of 700 and 500 euros to ***ACCOUNT.1 (Banco Po-
pular) being the mirror account of the account ***ACCOUNT.2 (B. Santander).

The protester realizes that on July 22, 2019 unknown authors ten
A new VISA credit card with ***VISA.2 numbering was registered.

What unknown author(s) carry out a transfer of the card ***VISA.2 of 5000
euros to the bank account numbered ***ACCOUNT.3 (Banco Popular) being the
mirror account of account ***ACCOUNT.4 (B. Santander).

Which unknown author(s) made three transfers from his bank account
***ACCOUNT.5, (...) were 1000 euros each, sent to the accounts
***ACCOUNT.6 (EVO BANK); ***ACCOUNT.7 (EVO BANK) and ***ACCOUNT.8
(OPEN BANK) that for each of these transfers they charge the amount
of 6 euros.

Which unknown author(s) make a transfer from the account
***ACCOUNT.3(...) to account ***ACCOUNT.8 (OPEN BANK) for the amount of
250 euros, including a charge of 6 euros for expenses.

What unknown author/s of the account numbered ***ACCOUNT.1 (...) rea-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/99

Three transfers were made, the first being for the amount of 5,000 euros to the
account ***ACCOUNT.6 (EVO BANK). A second transfer of 250 euros to
account ***CUENTA.8 (OPEN BANK), a third transfer of 250 euros to
the account ***ACCOUNT.8 (OPEN BANK). (…)

Likewise, it provides proof of receipt of "Request for changes in the service
Postpaid mobile communications” dated July 23, 2019, which includes the
email of the impersonating person and the new assigned SIM card number.

It also provides the list of calls from said SIM to the telephone line of the San-
tander (***TELÉFONO.2), and a summary of the transfers and deposits made without
Your consent.

In accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in what
hereafter, LOPDGDD), which consists of transferring them to the Delegates of
Data Protection designated by those responsible or in charge of the treatment, or
to these when they have not been appointed, and with the purpose indicated in the aforementioned
article, on September 30, 2019, the claim was transferred to
ORANGE, to proceed with its analysis and provide a response within a month.

In response to said request, ORANGE stated -among other arguments- that
Next:

“(…) The aforementioned facts had already been made known to Oran-
ge by the claimant, this company proceeding to the analysis of the facts
rights and the achievement of a solution in favor of the claimant prior to
ity to the notification of the request for information that concerns us, giving
satisfaction as well to your claim.

Well, after carrying out the appropriate analysis and checks on the
In this case, it was verified that after the acquisition of a SIM card (...) that usually
It has a high influx of public to speed up certain procedures, such as the
payment of unpaid bills, recharges of prepaid cards, etc.), is provided
yielded (...) on July 22, 2019 at 6:52 p.m.

It is interesting to note that (...) it was carried out (...) in breach of the guidelines established
given by this mercantile (...).

(...).

Second. - Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
Similar incidents, implementation dates and controls carried out to confirm
test its effectiveness.

In the present case, as soon as Orange has been aware (...), he has
reinforced and strengthened the Protocols implemented for the processing of certain
undermined acts (among which are the duplication of SIM cards) is-
establishing greater controls and identity verification systems for this purpose.
with the aim of ensuring that this situation does not happen again.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/99

Indeed, it comes to show that, in the first place, Orange has eliminated the
possibility of (...), thus limiting the operations permitted in the aforementioned (...)
from July 29, 2019.

Secondly, and as an additional measure, Orange has adopted the decision,
with implementation date September 20, 2019, that, (...) (among which
is found, (...), due to the associated risks inherent to it), cannot be
processed through (...), but the user is obliged to activate it (...)
(after successful authentication).

This new management model has been implemented in order to prevent
situations similar to the one at hand are repeated. We accompany as docu-
Attachment No. 1 to the aforementioned new model.

In this sense, for a better understanding by the Agency to which we have
We have the honor of addressing you, it is convenient to provide greater detail in the explanation
of this new request management model and activation of duplicates of
SIM cards.

In order to achieve greater expository clarity, it is important to differentiate two modes:
differentiated procedures or actions in requests for duplicate cards
SIM:

a) (…). The request must be made:

- (...).
- (...).

b) (...) must be carried out:
- (...).
- (...).

(...).

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 26 of
February 2020, in the file with no. of reference E/08994/2019.
SECOND: On November 27, 2019, the director of the AEPD, before the no-
news that appeared in the media regarding the use of practices
fraudulent based on the generation of duplicate SIM cards without the consent
protection of their legitimate owners in order to access confidential information with
criminal purposes (known as "SIM Swapping"), urges the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection (hereinafter, SGID) to initiate ex officio the Preliminary Actions
Research aimed at analyzing these practices and the existing security measures.
try to prevent it.
Namely:
The Duplicate SIM Scam: If Your Phone Does Weird Things, Check Your Bank Account
| Economy | THE COUNTRY (elpais.com)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/99

https://elpais.com/economia/2019/05/21/actualidad/1558455806_935422.html
The dangerous fashion scam: Duplicate your mobile number to empty your account
bank | Technology (elmundo.es)
https://www.elmundo.es/tecnologia/2020/10/15/5f8700b321efa0c9118b462c.html
THIRD: B.B.B. (hereinafter, the claimant party two), on March 12,
2020, files a claim with the Registry of the Murcia City Council, which is
registered with the AEPD on June 5, 2020, directed against ORANGE, by the
following reasons:

“On January 8, 2020 they made me a duplicate of the SIM card without my code.
knowledge or consent. They took over my phone line. They asked cla-
go to Bankia and they refunded me 300 euros from Barcelona, Plaza de
Catalonia 1, Sant Boi de Llobregat. They have made me identity theft.”

Along with the claim, provide a complaint with the report number XXX/YY dated
January 9, 2020, presented before the General Directorate of the National Police in the
dependencies of San Andrés (Murcia), in which it states:

“That on the day of the date the complainant's wife receives an SMS which informs her
way that through the number of the decedent has requested a duplicate card-
ta of your phone number.

That the declarant states that he has not authorized such an operation with his number by
so he contacts his phone company, ORANGE, to confirm-
dole this the processing of the duplicate, alleging that it may have been a mistake
by ORANGE.

That the declarant at that time realizes that he does not have coverage in
your mobile phone.

Who decides to check their bank accounts realizing that they have suspended
brought 300 euros from an ATM located at the scene without authorization
tion. (…)”

Likewise, it also provides the response letter from ORANGE dated January 20,
2020, in which they confirm the correct activation of the voice service, a compensation
compensation for the inconvenience caused equivalent to a full month of the con-
treated, and apologize for the inconvenience caused.

On June 26, 2020, the claim was transferred to ORANGE, so that
proceed to its analysis and respond within a month.

In response to said request, ORANGE stated -among other arguments- that
Next:

“In the first place, it should be noted that the duplicate SIM card exposed in the
requirement that concerns us, was detected by Orange the same day of its activity.
vation, 01/08/2020, by associating the activation of the line (...) to the IMEI (...).
In relation to the foregoing, the aforementioned facts had already been brought to light.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/99

acknowledgment of Orange by the claimant, this company proceeding to
analysis of the facts and the achievement of a solution in favor of the claim
prior to the notification of the request for information that
concerns us, thus giving satisfaction to your claim. In this sense, Orange
proceeded to respond to the notified Official Claim, (...).
In this sense, after performing the appropriate analysis and verification of the
case, it was verified that the activation of the duplicate SIM card of the line ***TE-
LÉFONO.3, was made on 01/08/2020 (...). The duplicate card (...).
In that sense, after an exhaustive study of the circumstances of the case that
concerns us, Orange proceeded to (...).
For all of the above, this company is unaware of the reasons that have led to re-
claim before the Agency to which we have the honor to address the facts that
bring cause of the present requirement, being the same refined and informed
two to the affected months ago.
Second. - Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents, implementation dates and controls carried out to verify
test its effectiveness.
In the present case, as soon as Orange was aware (...), he
has reinforced and strengthened the Protocols implemented for the processing of
completed acts (among which are those of duplication of SIM cards)
establishing greater controls and identity verification systems for this purpose.
with the aim of ensuring that this situation does not happen again.
In this sense, for a better understanding by the Agency to which we have
We have the honor of addressing you, it is convenient to provide greater detail in the explanation
of the technologies used by my represented in the processes of identification
tion of the identity of the owner. (…)

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 31
August 2020, in the file with no. of reference E/05031/2020.
FOURTH: In view of the facts denounced by claimants one and two,
of the documents provided and the Internal Note agreed by the director of the
Agency, the SGID proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions
for the clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
authorization granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
them and the free circulation of these data and by which Directive 95/46/EC is repealed
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance
with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD.
Within the framework of the previous investigation actions, three requirements were made:
information sessions addressed to ORANGE, on different dates:

Secure Verification Code Requirement

First

***CODE.1

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

Required date
I lie

01/13/2020

Notification date-
tion required
I lie
01/13/2020

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/99

06/23/2020

06/25/2020

Second

***CODE.2
***CODE.3

Third
09/17/2020
In the first of the requirements, dated January 13, 2020, the following was requested:
following information:

09/16/2020

1. Information on the channels available to customers to request a duplicate
SIM card crash. (Telephone, Internet, shops, etc.).

2. For each of the routes available, detailed information is requested
of the procedure established for the attention of the requests, including the
controls for the verification of the identity of the applicant including the data and
documents required from the applicant, as well as the details of the verifications
tions that are made on them. In case of shipment of SIM card by co-
mail, detail of the controls and requirements established on the direction of delivery
he saw.

3. Instructions given in this regard to the staff that attends the requests for
their attention. Documentation proving its dissemination among the companies
employees dedicated to said tasks, internal or external to the entity.

4. Information on whether the performance of the controls to verify the
identity is reflected, for each request attended, in the Information System
mation of the entity. Documentation that accredits it in your case, such as
screen pressure of the buttons (check-box) or other documentation according to the
method used.

5. Reasons why it has been possible in some cases to supplant the
identity of clients for the issuance of SIM duplicates. Reasons why
The implemented security measures and controls have not had an effect.

6. Actions taken by the entity when one of these cases is detected.
Information on the existence of a written procedure and a copy of it in
affirmative case. Actions taken to prevent cases of this type from occurring
produce again, specifically, changes that may have been made on the
procedure to improve security.

7. Number of cases of fraudulent duplicate SIM requests detected
two throughout the year 2019.

Total number of mobile telephony clients of the entity.

In the second of the requirements, dated June 23, 2020, the following was requested:
following information:

POINT 1
Clarification is requested on the following aspects in relation to the answer-
tion of our request dated January 16, 2020, within the framework of
this same file:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/99

A). In the case of the ORANGE brand, it is indicated that (...)
A copy of the written procedure is requested where all the cases that
are processed (...), including all the assumptions or circumstances alluded to.
A copy of the specific instructions given to operators with information is requested.
detailed information of how the operator values all the assumptions, including
how you should assess the client's circumstances to access the procedure
(...).
B). A copy of the established procedure is requested where the controls are recorded in
the case of processing applications (...) for the ORANGE brand. (In the information
information provided are not described, indicating in the table of controls “Not available
ble”).
A copy of the security policies (SIM request) is requested for the brand
ORANGE, clearly stating the data requested according to the different
recent cases, including all assumptions.
A copy of the specific instructions given to the operators for this is requested
with detailed information on the data that must be requested in each case.
C) A copy of the security policies is requested (SIM request and activation)
for the JAZZTEL and AMENA brands where the data that is
requested according to the different cases, including all assumptions.
A copy of the specific instructions given to the operators for this is requested
with detailed information on the data that must be requested in each case.
D). Information on the controls established to process the change of address
e-mail address of a user.
Implications of an email address change on activation
of a new duplicate SIM. Way in which the alleged supplanters
have been able to activate a new SIM by previously changing this user data.
E) For all brands, in home deliveries, information is requested on
whether it is possible to change the SIM delivery address and under what circumstances
and controls.
F). In the table of controls provided it is mentioned, in the cases of companies of
messaging: "Delivery without validation of Identity Document".
The verifications that are carried out in the home delivery of the card are requested.
ta SIM for recipient identification. Copy of contracted documentation
with the courier companies that carry out the distribution, where the
identity checks to be carried out by the delivery person.
POINT 2
List of 20 cases of SIM duplicates claimed as impersonation of
identity or fraudulent by customers, of the ORANGE brand. The listing will include
SIM duplicates requested since January 1, 2020, that is, all
those claimed that happened as of January 1, from the first, as a result
crops
up to 20.
It is requested to indicate in the list only:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/99

- the date of the SIM change,
- the line number,
- request channel,
- delivery channel.
POINT 3
On cases presented before this Agency that are summarized in the table: (which is
fully reproduced in this act of procedure):
It is requested:
A) Circumstances for which it was processed (...). Information if it was verified (...).
It is requested to provide documentary accreditation.
B) Reason why SIM duplication was possible in this case. Accreditation
of the controls that were passed on the identity of the applicant both in the pro-
pia request (...) as in the activation of the SIM.
C) In this case, the email address was changed prior to the
request.
Information is requested on how they changed the customer's email address and credit
Documentary edition of the controls that were passed for the identification of the
client.
D) Actions undertaken by the entity in each case, including accreditation
documentation of the following aspects:

- If you have been marked as a victim of customer fraud to avoid possible in-
future phishing attempts.
- If internal investigations have been carried out to clarify the facts
with the point of sale.
- Whether changes have been made to the procedure to prevent future cases
Similar.
- If the client has been contacted to alert him of what happened and about the
resolution of your case.

In the third and last of the requirements, dated September 16, 2020,
requested the following information:

POINT 1
On the list of 20 cases of SIM duplicates denounced/claimed faci-
listed in the previous answer: (whose content is considered to be fully reproduced)
duced in this act of proceeding):
A. In the cases of request and delivery at the point of sale, a copy of the
DNIs or identification documents provided by the applicants for the change of
SIM.
B. In the case of application (...):

- Copy of the recording of the conversation where the applicant exceeds the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/99

security policy. If the authentication was performed through (...), provide do-
supporting documentation.
- Detail of the circumstances that concurred to access the transfer.
mitigating the telephone request.

C. For each of the application cases (...):

- Information on whether prior (less than 2 days) to the request of the
SIM has proceeded to the change/request of app access password for
the customer's account. Provide supporting documentation.
- Information on whether in the cases of application or prior modification of the
password, the system security procedure “(…)” has been followed.
Provide supporting documentation.
If the password has been changed by other means, inform which have
been and provide supporting documentation.

D. SIM Activation.

For each of the cases of courier delivery:
- Information on the way of activating the card.
- In case of face-to-face activation at the point of sale, a copy of the document is requested.
identification document presented.
In case of telephone activation, recording of the call during which the
applicant exceeds the security policy.
In case of activation by means of (...), it is requested in general if
requests some additional identity accreditation from the client to activate the
card, in addition to the entry credentials to (...).

POINT 2
About the following case presented before this Agency: (whose table is given by in-
fully reproduced in this act of procedure):
A copy of the DNI or identification documentation provided is requested, as well as the rest of the
associated documentation, provided by the applicant.
Detailed information is requested on the type of alert that was generated in the system
and IMEI check, according to statements in the letter addressed to the affected "(...)".
Time elapsed between SIM duplication and line restriction.
Actions undertaken by the entity in each case, including accreditation do-
detail of the following aspects:

- If you have been marked as a victim of customer fraud to avoid possible in-
future phishing attempts.
- If internal investigations have been carried out to clarify the facts
with the point of sale.
- Whether changes have been made to the procedure to avoid future cases
Similar.
- If the client has been contacted to alert him of what happened and about the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/99

resolution of your case.

FIFTH: On January 28, July 1 and September 24, 2020, ORANGE is
tenders the extension of the legal term conferred to answer said requirements.
On January 31 and July 15, 2020, the Deputy Director General of Inspection of
Data agrees to extend the term to respond for a period of five days,
which must be computed from the day following the day on which the first
term granted.
SIXTH: In response to the three requirements made, ORANGE provided the following
following information that was analyzed by this Agency:
Regarding the first of the requirements, the information is specified in accordance with the
Required sections according to numbering order:

1.- Information on the routes available to customers:

- (...).
- (...).
- (...).

2.- Detailed information on the procedure:
The control measures in the request and activation of the duplicate SIM are available
inks depending on the brand and the channel used to request the duplicate of the
SIM:
ORANGE brand:
- (...):
(…)
- (...):
(…)
- (...):
(...).
- (...).
JAZZTEL Brand:
- (..).
- (...).
(…)
- (...):

- (...).

- (...):

- (...).

AMENA brand:
- (...).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/99

- (...).
- (...).

- (...):
(...).
- (...):

- (…)

- (...):

-(…).

- (...):

-(…).

(…)
3.- Information on the instructions issued to the operators:
(…)

4.- Information on carrying out the controls:

(…)

5.- Reasons why identity theft has been possible in some cases.
number of clients:

(…)

6.- Actions undertaken by the entity:

(...):

-. (...).
-. (...).
-. (...).
-. (...).
-. (...).
-. (...).
-. (...).

General measures implemented in different brands.

-. (...).
-. (...).
-. (...):
-. (...).

7.- Regarding the number of cases of fraudulent requests for SIM duplicates detected
ted throughout the year 2019, the entity has stated:

“(…).”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/99

Regarding the cases presented to the agency:

CLAIMANT ONE:

-. Previous Actions: Email address temporarily changed.
prior to SIM request. Information has been requested on how they changed
the customer's email address and documentary evidence of the controls
that were passed for the identification of the client, indicating the representatives
ORANGE teas(…)
.- Change request: Duplicate provided (..) (already withdrawn).
.- Activation (...).
In the fragment of the call that was recorded, (…). The agent wanted in-
travel through (...). Subsequently, the agent (...) defined in the procedures
you're from ORANGE.
. - Damages: Fraudulent banking operations are reported using
SIM copy.
. - Actions undertaken by the entity, including documentary accreditation
such of the following aspects:

< If you have been marked as a victim of customer fraud to avoid possible
likely future phishing attempts.

(...).

< If internal investigations have been carried out to clarify the
chos with the point of sale.

(...).

< If changes have been made to the procedure to prevent fugitive
similar tours.

The actions taken to avoid cases of “SIM card changes
not consented” are:
- As stated above, (...).
- In cases of change of SIM without consent that have been pro-
duced (...), it has been found that the salesperson who attended the
defrauder (...).
As a reactive measure in the face of this lack of diligence, ORANGE applies
in these cases a penalty of XXX € to the point of sale that does not
observe the document validation policy.
- In addition, until September 20, 2019, it was possible to
dad in Orange that (...). As of the indicated date, and before the
Numerous cases of unauthorized SIM changes made through
see (...), this possibility is eliminated in the Orange brand, with the only
except for the period from March 16 to June 28
due to the extraordinary measures adopted by COVID-
19.
- They have been deleted (...). In this sense, it is intended that the policy
of authentication is increasingly strict and makes it difficult to commit

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/14

fraud.
- New customer authentication measures have been implemented
(...) as the one related to (...), which is used as a safe and true data
to pass strict security policy to the client.

< If the client has been contacted to alert him of what happened and about the
resolution of your case.

After repeated attempts to contact the affected, finally
was able to locate and was informed of the steps to follow.
(...) We try to answer as many questions and other procedures as possible.
arise to the affected client and the cost that has occurred is paid.
change the SIM card to recover your line after
that unauthorized change.
They provide a screenshot (...) of an interaction with the client
where the contacts maintained with the client are reflected.

CLAIMANT TWO:

-. SIM change request: (...).

They provide a copy of the DNI provided as well as a complaint for theft
of ID. The representatives of the entity have stated that (...).
(...).
It is noted that some documents are missing to be delivered according to the
ORANGE protocol. (...):

- (...).
- (...).

-. Damages: Fraudulent banking operations are reported using the
SIM copy.
-. Controls: (...) ORANGE has a (...), used as a measure of
security in the prevention and detection of fraud. (...). In the specific case
SIM card duplicates, the system works as follows:

- (...).
- (...).
(...).

About the time elapsed between the duplication of the SIM and the restriction of the
line the representatives of ORANGE only state that in the
the same day.

On other cases not filed with the agency:
Provided the list the breakdown of the 20 cases is as follows:

- (...).
- (…)
- (...).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/99

Required (...) for face-to-face requests/collections at the store, the representatives
tes of ORANGE contribute 4 (...) for 4 of the cases. It is verified that two (...). In other
case is provided (...). They indicate that for two of the cases it has not been possible to obtain the
information required by the point of sale but a total of 5 (...) of the 9 are missing
required.
(...):

- (...).
- (...).

Required the recording of the conversation for the telephone case, as well as documentation
accrediting the application (...) where appropriate, the representatives of the entity in-
They say that they provide a copy of the recording of the activation of the corresponding card,
stating that:

“(…).
(...).”

ORANGE has been asked to detail the circumstances that occurred to
to access the processing (...), indicating the representatives of the entity that
Duplicate request was made on 04/22/2019 and during the period
from March 16 to June 28, 2020, due to the exceptional measures adopted
das as a result of Covid-19, we proceeded to enable (...) as a measure
of contingency, to manage the request of change and duplication of SIM card.
Regarding the cases of activation by means of (...), it has been requested in general, if
some (...) is requested from the customer to activate the card, in addition to (...). Given this, the
representatives of the entity have stated:

“(…).
(...).”

SEVENTH: On August 27, 2020, commercial information is obtained on the
sales volume of ORANGE during the year 2019 being the results of
4,779,670,000 euros. The share capital amounts to 1,097,665,000 euros.
EIGHTH: On January 27, 2021, information is obtained from the National Commission
tion of the Markets and the Competition on the lines of mobile voice telephony by
type of contract and by segment, the results being:

OPERATOR

PREPAID

POSTPAID

ORANGE

Residential
2,569,156

Business

0

Residential
8,953,958

Business
2,204,408

NINTH: On February 11, 2021, the director of the AEPD agrees to initiate
sanctioning procedure against ORANGE, in accordance with the provisions of articles
Articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), for alleged infringement
tion of article 5.1.f) and 5.2 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/16

article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD as very serious, and may be sanctioned with a
administrative fine of 2,000,000.00 euros (two million euros), without prejudice to
whatever results from the instruction.
The Initiation Agreement is notified to ORANGE, on February 15, 2021, through
instead of Citizen Folder, according to confirmation that appears in the file.
TENTH: On February 16, 2021, ORANGE requests the extension of the term
to adduce allegations and provide documents or other evidence.
ELEVEN: On February 17, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed
gives the extension of the term requested up to a maximum of five days, in accordance with the
provided in article 32.1 of the LPACAP.
The Extension Agreement is notified to ORANGE on February 18, 2021.
 : Dated March 8, 2021, it is received in this Agency, in time and
TWELFTH
 
form, a letter from the representative of ORANGE in which he adduces allegations and after
party what is appropriate to his right, ends by requesting the file of the procedure and
subsidiarily, that the AEPD consider the fundamental mitigating circumstances
das and finish the procedure by means of a warning and with the imposition of the
obligations to implement suitable corrective measures.
In summary, he argues that:

PREVIOUS.- EXISTENCE OF A WORKING GROUP ON DUPLICATION
OF SIM CARDS LEADED BY THE AEPD.
The fact that within said Working Group (GT) it is required to
ORANGE to share all the information regarding the processes and multiple
ple preventive and reactive controls for the prevention and management of this type
of fraud, should lead us to think that such sharing is done within
of the most absolute and strict framework of trust and full confidentiality.
Public-private partnerships provide the Administration with the advantage of
that, companies specialized in certain services, contribute the knowledge
and the best solutions on issues that are of interest to consumers.
midores and for citizens.
Also noteworthy are the work tables opened with the Ministry of
Inside. During 2020, the collaboration with the Security Forces and Bodies
State Security (FCSE), has meant more than 40,308 requests attended and
derived from the Courts; 45,552 requests attended and derived from the
Judicial Police and 50,056 telephone taps carried out (among discharges,
dismissals and dismissals).
In addition, ORANGE staff have been awarded the Cross of Merit
Civilian with white badge.
Likewise, he has actively participated in the report of the study paper
about the risks derived from the use of the network by minors in the
Senate in the signing of a High Level Protocol.
For its part, the AEPD has considered that this is the ideal time to propose
have millionaire sanctions to the same entities with which it is sitting
to agree on common measures, an unprecedented and surprising precedent.
The appropriate thing would be to wait to have some conclusions and, once known and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/17

given an adequate period to achieve its implementation, it is then, when
requires the operators to certify their compliance and in case of not doing so,
done, that is when sanctions are proposed.
The WG meetings have suffered delays due to the COVID pandemic
19, which have slowed down their periodicity -delay from that scheduled on 03/16/2020 to
4/12/2020- which has harmed the analysis of the problem and the proposals
ta and implementation of improvements.
It seems that the Agency has no pretense of complying
to the principles of institutional loyalty that are presumed in any relationship
of public-private collaboration, meanwhile, at the same time that it requests the collaboration
elaboration, information, active and effective participation in the GT, initiates a procedure
sanctioning procedure that deals with the matter dealt with in the GT.
The AEPD crosses the most elementary limits of institutional loyalty that are
boasts a public body in this collaborative framework.
The opening of this procedure and others like it makes it extremely difficult to
existence of a framework of trust between ORANGE and the AEPD, and the entire
national telecommunications sector.
ORANGE wants to record that this way of proceeding seriously affects
to the principle of trust that he presumed to be able to deposit in the AEPD and su-
poses a risk to the objectives of the WG, which will be subject to internal analysis and
probably sectoral regarding the collaborative framework with Administrative Authorities.
initiatives that pursue this common good of citizens with action plans
tion and joint collaboration.
FIRST. - INCORRECTION AND LACK OF ACCURACY IN THE ASSESSMENTS-
TIONS ON SIM CARD DUPLICATE FRAUD.
The description made by the AEPD contains various statements
inaccurate and technical errors that lead to an inappropriate interpretation
of the facts and their legal consequences.
SIM cards do not serve “to identify the subscriber before the telephone network
mobile”, but rather identify a telephone number, without including any information
tion that allows third parties, other than the telecommunication operator itself,
nes with which you have contracted the service, identify the subscriber.
The fact that the subsequent use of the duplicate SIM is aimed at the co-
mission of other crimes -carrying out fraudulent banking operations-,
under no circumstances can be considered within the scope of responsibility
from ORANGE. By itself, this act is not enough to perform operations.
bank transactions on behalf of the initial holders of the SIM cards, but rather
an additional and independent criminal activity must take place.
The use by banking entities of a double factor system of
authentication that implies the sending by SMS of the ratification keys for the
carrying out certain operations is an operation on which ORAN-
GE does not have any decision-making capacity.
There is no causal link between identity theft for the
issuing a duplicate of the card and carrying out banking operations
fraudulent or other types of identity theft operations in another

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/99

type of online platforms, but what is really produced is a usurpation
initial disclosure of the identity of those affected before the bank and derived
of it and subsequently, the confirmation of the operations would take place
by using the keys sent by SMS.
This possibility would only occur when the means established to guarantee the
security corresponds to sending an SMS, since the double factor of
security (known generically as "authentication systems with
One-Time Password” or “One Time Password”) does not have to be configured
necessarily be arranged in this way, this being an option whose choice
It is the responsibility of the banking entity and/or the corresponding user, given that many
many platforms can be used as a means to notify the second factor
authentication, SMS, email, or code generation applications
temporary Google Authenticator type or similar.
These facts are perfectly known by the AEPD, which even has
published on its website a publication called "Identification in services of
online payment”.
Therefore, the considerations expressed by the AEPD in the Initial Agreement
that the ultimate consequence of identity theft before
ORANGE is the performance of unauthorized banking operations must be
nuanced, since this possibility only exists when this is the chosen medium.
do for the confirmation of the operations and also, previously and necessarily,
the bank identity itself or the user have not taken sufficient diligence
cient for the protection of the initial means of identity verification
(first factor) that allow access to the tool from which the
nan banking operations.
The same effect could also occur without the need for spoofing.
identity. This would be the case in which a subscriber decided to cancel his number.
phone number and later was the subject of portability. If the user
rio did not adopt due diligence to update its information in the face of the differences
different entities to which you have provided your telephone number
as a means of authentication, it would enable the third party that received that number
number could receive the confirmation messages issued by said entities.
des The same effect could occur in the case of theft of a terminal that the user
had not adequately protected (allowing access to its content without
need to use passwords, fingerprints or other security measures).
Therefore, illegally obtaining the duplicate SIM card is not enough
to carry out fraudulent banking operations, nor does it have to con-
occur to allow them to be carried out, so it cannot be attributed
generically this responsibility.
However, ORANGE is not exempt from the problems derived from the potential
use of duplicate cards for illicit purposes. It is for this reason that it has implemented
mented reinforced security mechanisms in relation to the conditions
for your request.
SECOND. - UNFOUNDED GENERALIZATION OF NE- CONSEQUENCES
GATIVES ASSOCIATED WITH THE ISSUANCE OF THE DUPLICATE OF THE CARD
SIM.
Many of the statements contained in the arguments put forward by the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/99

AEPD are inaccurate or erroneous.
It is not true that "by getting a duplicate SIM card, the impersonators
they will automatically have access to the contacts and will be able to access all
applications and services that have as recovery procedure of
send an SMS with a code to be able to change the passwords”.
It should be noted that these can be stored "physically" on the cards
SIM, so this information would not be in the duplicates that can be issued.
disposed of, but would remain only in the original SIM, under the control of your
owner, unless the user has chosen to store them in environments associated with
Android or Apple, in which case the operator does not have the capacity to act either.
therefore, once again, the AEPD makes an erroneous statement
whose sole purpose is to justify the hefty penalty proposed based on the
alleged damages that have been caused to the holder of the numbering.
Regarding the possibility of accessing email, bank and
others mentioned, it is obvious that the duplication of the card does not allow, by itself, the
access to them, but it is necessary, at least, to know the identifier
of the user to be able to access any of the accounts.
Furthermore, it should be noted that when the impersonator addresses
ORANGE to request the duplicate already has a lot of relative information
to the interested party, which is necessary for the management of the request. Therefore, the
Obtaining this information, in a presumably illicit manner, is the responsibility
liability of third parties or of the owner of the data, existing in many cases
reckless behavior of the latter in the custody of their information
personal tion.
The responsibility of ORANGE cannot extend beyond those
issues that fall under its scope. Interpret the opposite sig-
means making it responsible for the security of the information guarded by ter-
zeros, and even of the possible negligent actions of these or of the own
owner of the data, as well as the fact that there are real mafias
specialized in committing crimes.
With regard to the possible violation of security principles,
data confidentiality and proactive responsibility, although it is true that
there is an incident related to information security, it has not been
produced in purity an access to personal data of the clients as con-
sequence of this The only information the impersonators would have gotten
followed is the telephone number and, if applicable, the verification codes for
lization of banking operations that, although it is confidential information, under
No concept can be considered as personal data by itself.
mos.
Therefore, although data is processed during the duplicate request process
personal, this does not imply that there is an illicit treatment derived from the lack
due diligence of ORANGE, but rather that ORANGE performs these operations on request.
sending data to who is supposed to be its owner and to make verifications, not
having provided any type of personal information that did not have initials
mind the applicant.
In this regard, it should be noted that the personal data processed in a
illegally are not obtained from ORANGE, but are obtained by impersonators

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/99

previously from other sources (the interested party or third parties responsible for
such data). Even, as stated in the file, the crime of impersonation
is accompanied by falsifications of public documents, such as copies of
DNI or alleged complaints filed with the police, which are provided as
means to overcome ORANGE's control measures.
There is no specific regulation that establishes the obligations in relation to
tion with this operation, and the only one that could be considered as a reference,
for having certain similarities in terms of the matter, is Circular 1/2009, of 16
of April 2009, of the Telecommunications Market Commission, which
regulates the initial contracting procedure for telecom services.
communications, and which does not contain any requirement of equitable security
comparable to those that the AEPD intends to require in relation to a procedure
which would be secondary to that regulated in said circular.
Nor has it been proven, nor does it appear in the complaints, any reference
to criminals having managed to obtain personal data from ORAN-
GE, so there can be no question of non-compliance with protection measures
of personal data.
The AEPD, and in very recent procedures, had not been considering that
If there is a breach of security measures in relation to the sub-
positions in which identity theft occurred in exact cases.
identical mind. Thus, we can cite, for example: E-04919, PS-00144-2019,
PS-00235-2020, PS-00348-2020, E-01178-2020.
In none of them is it observed that there is a qualification as an infraction
of the security obligations required in article 32 of the RGPD.
Invokes article 54 of Law 30/1992, of November 26, on the Legal Regime
co of the Public Administrations and the Common Administrative Procedure
(already repealed), in its first section that said: they must be motivated
(...) acts "that deviate from the criteria followed in preceding actions
you”. In other words, in the event of the same factual assumptions, the application of solutions
different must be justified “with a brief reference to facts and fundamentals
of law” of the reason for such disparity in order not to violate the principle of
legal security.
The rationale provided is limited to referring to possible vulnerabilities
ties, which in no case are identified, let alone exposed why
they can be qualified as insufficient or inadequate.
It is also noteworthy that it is held responsible for the effects derived from
Other actions that do imply unauthorized access to personal data
those affected, victims of alleged phishing or the like, who do
limit access to personal information protected by other data controllers
treatment.
THIRD. - SUITABILITY AND COMPLIANCE WITH PREVENTIVE MEASURES
YOU ARE IMPLEMENTED BY ORANGE.
ORANGE has carried out a detailed study of its treatment activities
of personal data carried out and has adopted the pertinent measures
so that they are carried out in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.
Regarding the safety of the process, it has provided evidence of the existence

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/21

ence of specific protocols appropriate to the risks identified.
It has organizational measures that have been communicated to all personnel.
party involved in the processing of personal data.
It is important to indicate that the organizational security measures are supported
ted by (...) which is responsible for implementing and operating security, measuring (...).
In order to provide reliability to third parties about the proper func-
By implementing these measures, both technical and organizational, ORANGE maintains
has and certifies Information Security Management Systems based on
in ISO27001 and National Security Scheme.
The existing protocols have been communicated to all those involved in the
management of duplicate requests, including penalties in the
in the event that breaches of the established procedures are detected.
The operations defined have taken into account the risks associated with carrying out
of this type of management and the parameters for its execution have been set
in the knowledge of the people involved in its processing. The number of
cases is negligible compared to the total number of operations carried out.
Although the means and controls have been increasing to guarantee strict
compliance with the established protocol, it is not possible to eradicate the possibility
of its contravention by users, since, ultimately, it depends
fair action by the person processing the application, which is
aware of the instructions to be followed in each case.
The intended solution proposed by the AEPD consisting of automation
total controls to prevent unauthorized actions, albeit hypothetical-
mind could allow a better control of the procedures, it would have a cost
exorbitant since it would imply a systematic monitoring of all the activity
user's identity (by way of example, the system should allow: knowing and analyzing
lyse the content of the conversation held with customers, know and verify
verify the content of all possible documents that may be made available
disposition during the request, validating its adequacy in each case, knowing
see if the answer to the questions corresponds to the existing information,
etc.).
In this sense, the AEPD does not justify in any way the proportionality of the
proposed measure, nor that it was the ideal one taking into account the
of the technique, the costs of application, and the nature, scope, context
to and the purposes of the treatment.
The measure also means ignoring the reality of the actions of users
responsible for carrying out these procedures that fulfill in practice all
quality of the cases with the indications received from ORANGE.
Similarly, it does not take into account the small number of assumptions in the
that a contingency has occurred associated with the request for a duplicate
card, which specifically represents (...) % of cases.
QUARTER. - ORANGE'S DILIGENT PERFORMANCE.
ORANGE has not implemented "static security measures", but has
proceeded systematically to implement improvements in the measures adopted
as soon as it has become aware of the existence of any vulnerability.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/99

In the case analyzed, the personal data of the victims are usurped with
before the criminals go to ORANGE and that precisely
as a consequence of having access to personal information that should only be
being in the possession of the interested party, allow the impersonation of identities to materialize.
ity against ORANGE.
This circumstance in no way prevents the fact that ORANGE has complied with
its obligations in accordance with the provisions of recital 83 of the RGPD to
referred to by the AEPD.
There can be no talk of negligence in any case, since the circumstances
concrete in which the events occur, in which criminals under the
appearance of victims of a robbery and using tricks and fraudulent documentation
dulent with real appearance (...) they manage to deceive the person to whom they are
Request in duplicate. (...). Therefore, it is a sufficient delusion, for re-
dress this "appearance of reality and seriousness enough to deceive people
medium perspicacity and diligence" (thus considered, among many others,
in STS 2362/2020).
Occasionally certain partial breaches of the protocols occur
provided by ORANGE, which in certain cases contribute to the
tion of the end pursued by the fraudsters.
However, this does not allow us to conclude that these facts show "the
a series of vulnerabilities in the security measures implemented and, therefore,
Therefore, the responsibility of ORANGE as responsible for the treatment is inferred.
in terms of negligence, lack of supervision and control”.
On the contrary, the measures implemented by ORANGE are suitable for mi-
to mitigate, for the most part, the risks related to this type of fraud.
In practice, as reported, the efficiency of these measures is close to
100% of the cases.
It must be remembered that, although they could have been punctually breached and
partially by the people in charge of processing some
In addition to verification obligations, there are combined safety factors
two that make it difficult for fraudsters to target. (…)
Only in exceptional cases in which the means used for the determination
develop the scams are especially sophisticated, combined in some su-
position with specific omissions of some of the requirements established by
ORANGE by those involved in the processing of applications, it has been
produced the result of impersonation of the identity of the clients.
In this sense, Circular 1/2016 of the Tax Office can be used as a reference.
General State Office, regarding the criminal Compliance protocols in which
it is argued that “crime does not necessarily invalidate the prevention program.
tion, which may have been properly designed and implemented without reaching
gar to have an absolute efficiency".
According to ORANGE, it has been proven that:
 It has established adequate protocols for the prevention of impersonations
of identity in the process of requesting duplicate cards.
 Has duly communicated the content of these protocols and the obligations

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/23

nes that correspond to the people involved in the processing.
 Has made improvements in the processes when it has become aware of vulnerabilities
vulnerabilities, such as reinforcements in the guarantees and limitation of channels
for the request or inclusion of new, more effective control methods (such as
(…) released in October 2020).
 It has adopted sanctioning measures against breaches of the pro-
tocolos.
 Has acted as diligently as possible, immediately, efficiently
and executive, in cases in which he has become aware of any fact.
- It has systems for verifying compliance with its obligations
by the people involved.
 Has filed complaints for the scams committed and collaborates so that they can
It allows the culprits to be identified and similar future assumptions to be avoided.
Consequently, the activity of ORANGE cannot be classified as ne-
negligent, nor has there been a lack of supervision or control.
Invokes STS 1232/2018 of July 18, 2018, which recalls what can
considered as "negligence" or "guilt in vigilando" on the part of a company
sa (company) in relation to the behavior of its employees to collaborate
tors, stating that: "It would be possible, in effect, to contemplate in the abstract a guilt
in vigilance of society, starting from duty -widely analyzed by the
civil doctrine and jurisprudence - that weighs on companies to ensure the
behavior of their dependents, proxies or employees to avoid
that negligent or fraudulent actions of these may cause damage to third parties
who have trusted the company in whose name or on whose behalf they act."
Thus, according to the criterion of the Supreme Court, it would not be possible to hold
to ORANGE even if your employee or collaborator had been negligent in
their actions, since "negligent or malicious actions" would be required on the part
of ORANGE, which under no circumstances have occurred in the cases under
of analysis.
On the other hand, even if it were possible to sanction if the conduct was
qualified as negligent, this same Judgment includes the necessary requirements
cessaries on the content that an accusation of this type must fulfill in a
sanctioning file: "A rating covered by fault in vigilando,
however, it would need one more element to allow affirming the responsibility
in the sanctioning scope (in our case, for tax infractions): a
express, sufficient and detailed justification of the breach of duty
monitoring that the sanctioning body should offer in its resolution, analyze
considering the circumstances of the case and determining what has been the concrete
behavior of the company revealing the infraction of that obligation.
3. In short: a) Conduct such as the one described above cannot be classified as malicious.
concerns us, because -according to the facts that comprise it- it is not possible to speak
of intention or willingness to perform the typical behavior; b) would only fit
affirm in such cases "negligence" if the duties of vigilance are infringed.
lance that weigh on society in relation to the people who act in
his name and provided that such violation appears verified and justified ex-
prey and in detail in the penalty agreement, which must analyze

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/99

the circumstances of the case and to what extent the lack of vigilance has contributed
to the commission of the offence.”
Similarly, the TSJ of Madrid in its Judgment 568/2020 of 10 Sep. 2020
establishes: "There will have to be, therefore, fraudulent or negligent conduct, whether
gross or slight or simple negligence. And there is no negligence, nor therefore infringement.
tion, "when the necessary diligence has been exercised in complying with the
tax obligations" (article 179.2.d) of the LGT 58/2003)".
In view of the foregoing, the jurisprudence protects the behavior of ORAN-
GE, having established an action protocol prepared taking into account
account the existing risks, which was made available to all those involved.
and that, if they had been followed by these, they would not have accessed the entre-
ga of the illicit copy of the card.
In addition, with regard to the in vigilando responsibility of the company, it is
unquestionable that can only be blamed when it comes to performance
guilty or intentional actions, not negligent as the act has been identified.
tion of ORANGE by the AEPD itself, despite the fact that it is far from being so.
FIFTH. – LACK OF PROPORTIONALITY OF THE PROPOSED PENALTY.
There has been no breach of data protection regulations,
since ORANGE has taken all the necessary technical and organizational measures
sarias to avoid fraud in the request for duplicate SIM cards.
Regarding the duration of the infraction, these are not situations that are
petua in time, but are independent events.
As for the number of interested parties affected, it is not possible to consider the number
of total assumptions as a cause of aggravation without having determined the
concurrence of guilt of ORANGE in each of them.
Regarding the level of damages and losses suffered, it is not feasible to try to
make ORANGE responsible for situations related to the use of duplicates.
two of the card that derive from information security incidents with
which ORANGE has no relation. The duplication of the card does not lead
goes directly, nor necessarily, in fraudulent banking operations, since
that the security measures and the accesses to which they have to carry out the
Banking operations are totally unrelated to SIM card duplication.
Neither can intentionality or negligence be interpreted in their actions. In
In any case, it must be considered diligent and act as a mitigating factor.
tea.
Regarding the degree of responsibility: far from this criterion being an aggravating circumstance,
should be interpreted in your favor. Initiatives such as the use of technology stand out.
girls like (...).
Categories of personal data affected by the breach: SIM card not
allows identity theft, but only serves to receive
tion of the confirmation keys of banking operations in certain
assumptions. But this does not mean that the impersonator can operate on behalf
of the affected, unless the security measures of other
entities, such as the bank.
In this sense and taking into account the concurrent circumstances and the null

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/99

guilt of ORANGE, in the event that it is considered that there is some type of
of infringement of the RGPD, the proposal for an economic sanction should be
protected by the adoption of the corrective measures contemplated in the aforementioned
article 58 RGPD, consisting of the warning or warning to the responsible
ble of the treatment and the imposition of the obligation to adopt measures
to carry out the treatments “in a certain way and within a
specified".

    THIRD
 

 : Dated April 27, 2021, this Agency received a written
TENTH
 
of the representative of ORANGE by which he formulates additional arguments to the
previous.

Attach the following documentation:

OF A GENERAL NATURE:

- Document 1: (...).
- Document 2: (...) to follow in SimSwap cases.
- Document 3: Statement issued by SimSwap Risk Fraud.
- Document 4: Content published (...) about SimSwap.

OF A TECHNICAL CHARACTER

- Document 5: (...).
- Document 6: (…).

These allegations and the previous ones have already been answered in the Proposed Resolution.
tion and are reiterated, in part, in the Foundations of Law (hereinafter, FD) of this
Resolution.

FOURTEENTH: After the period of arguments granted in the Agreement of
initiation and presented arguments, dated April 30, 2021, by the instructor
of the procedure, it is agreed to open a trial period in the following
terms:

“The claims filed are considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes.
by A.A.A. and B.B.B., its documentation, the documents obtained and generated
two by the Inspection Services before ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U, and the In-
form of previous inspection actions that are part of the file
E/11418/2019.
2. Likewise, the allegations to the
initiation agreement PS/00022/2021 presented by ORANGE ESPAGNE,
S.A.U, on March 8, 2021, through the General Registry of this
Agency, and the documentation that accompanies them:
 Document 1 (minute)
 Document 2 (complaints)
3. Also, they are considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations
“complementary” to the initiation agreement PS/00022/2021 presented by
ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U, on April 27, 2021, through the Registry

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/26

General Code of this Agency, and the documentation that accompanies them:
 Document 1: (...).
 Document 2: (...) to follow in SimSwap cases.
 Document 3: Statement issued by SimSwap Risk Fraud.
 Document 4: Content published (...) about SimSwap.
 Document 5: (...).
 Document 6: (...). (…)”

FIFTEENTH: On September 30, 2021, the instructor of the procedure
ment formula Proposal for a Resolution, in which it proposes that by the director of the
AEPD sanction ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U., with NIF A82009812, for infringement
of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and in article
72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, with an administrative fine of 800,000'00 (eight hundred thousand
euros).

On October 4, 2021, through the Citizen Folder, the Pro-
Resolution setting.

SIXTEENTH: On October 7, 2021, ORANGE requests the extension of the
term to formulate allegations to the Resolution Proposal.

SEVENTEENTH: On October 7, 2021, the Agency grants the extension
tion urged.

EIGHTEENTH: On October 26, 2021, ORANGE, makes allegations
to the Proposal for a Resolution in which the allegations are ratified and reproduced.
tions and legal arguments made to the Initiation Agreement (background DUO-
TENTH and THIRTEENTH) and also adds others:

FIRST: INFRINGEMENT.

It is noteworthy that in the FD the commission by the
ORANGE of an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD based on the facts
by tested by the Agency. This, before even trying to justify
car the reason This proceeding, even if only for formal effects, is legally
inappropriate and could be considered a certain predisposition of the AEPD to sanction
declare it, regardless of the allegations it may make in its defence, given
Note that no such violation has occurred.

SECOND: PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA AND RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TREATMENT
TREATMENT.

A number of qualifications are required in relation to the duplication process
of a SIM card involves the processing of personal data.

The information processed during the duplication process of a SIM card is the information
information identifying the owner of the line, not the technical information contained in said
card, with the exception of the MSISDN, since its content is none other than its own

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/27

telephone number (preceded by the national prefix).

These and not others are the data subject to treatment carried out by ORANGE as
responsible.

All this information was already known by criminals before requesting
the duplicate, after having previously obtained them illicitly by means of techniques
social engineering such as "phishing" or "spoofing".

Therefore, the statement that "ORANGE is responsible for the
data processing referred to in the exposed antecedents”, since in the same
reference is made to other treatments that are not your responsibility.

There is no evidence that any information that may be
contained in the SIM cards, such as the IMSI, much less information about the list
telephone or calls and messages. Regarding the IMSI, there is no proof
ba or indication that this data has been treated for any purpose.

Nor is the statement made by the AEPD that the SIM card is,
in itself, a personal data. The card may contain personal information, but
It is not data and although this information could be considered as personal data by
make the owner of the line potentially identifiable, the truth is that the possibility of
identification by third parties other than the operator would require information
additional information that is not available, so even if they qualify as data
personal, would be considered pseudonymized data.

THIRD: ALLEGATIONS ADUCTED.

1. PREVIOUS ALLEGATION.- EXISTENCE OF A WG ON DUPLICATION OF
SIM CARDS LEADED BY THE AEPD.

The breach of legitimate expectations is not due to the statements that could
having carried out the Agency validating the performance of ORANGE.
 
The undermining of this principle is due to the fact that the opening of the sanction
tionator is produced within the framework of a collaboration in which the
a specific GT to deal with a criminal activity (“SIM Swapping”), in
whose bosom integrates both the telecommunications operators and the
bank, as well as other Administrations and Authorities involved, created with
the intention of protecting those affected, and whose purpose is to analyze formally
combines threats and defense mechanisms, with the aim of
clarify possible actions that help mitigate the risks of impersonation
of identity.
 
In this sense, although the participation of the AEPD in the GT does not imply the validation
of ORANGE's performance, it does show the recognition of the pro-
existing problem and the difficulty posed by its prevention: it is a
widespread and recurring problem, which affects multiple entities and
telecommunications operators whose solution is highly complex and, if
The joint will to put an end to these assumptions has been well shown,
eradicate them, it is a complicated objective, given the capacity of
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

28/99

criminals to update their techniques and deploy means every time
more sophisticated to achieve their goals.
 
In this context, it does not seem logical to require operators, and specifically
ORANGE, the deployment of a diligence of absolute efficiency.
 
However, it is within this framework that the AEPD decides to open an
tooth, using as a pretext the existence of certain news in
press when you have first-hand knowledge, by the operators
ras, of the existence and characteristics of these crimes.
 
Moreover, said information was made known to you in the confidence that
All entities present will use the information in good faith and not to
purposes other than those for which the WG was created.
 
The Agency uses this knowledge to employ it with the objective of sanctioning
trying to hold them accountable for the crimes of which they are victims, the
who is far from loyal and who obviously breaks the trust in
an Authority that prefers to take the sanctioning route before entities that,
you know conclusively, they are working proactively to improve
of security.
 
On the other hand, it is obvious that the AEPD is bound by the principle of legality.
but it is not true, as it pretends, that it is this principle that calls it to
sanction. The regulations provide for alternative mechanisms for situations in
which the objective should be to improve the security of the operations of
treatment performed.
 
The function of the AEPD is, in accordance with Royal Decree 389/2021, of June 1,
by which its Statute is approved, that of "supervising the application of the
legislation in force regarding the protection of personal data in order to protect
protect the rights and freedoms of natural persons”. For this purpose, their
powers are not limited to sanctioning activity, but article 58 of the
RGPD has corrective alternatives, such as warning, warning,
treatment or, even, order when appropriate that the treatment operations
to be carried out in a certain way and within a specified period.

In this sense, as the AEPD itself recalls, the sanctions have a financial
dissuasive capacity and it is more than evident that they do not need the spur of a
sanction to protect the data of its clients.

2. FIRST ALLEGATION.- WRONGNESS AND LACK OF ACCURACY IN
APPRECIATIONS ON DUPLICATE FRAUD.
The AEPD introduces a theoretical exposition to try to justify that, as
consequence of the access to the duplicate of the SIM card, there was an access to
personal data contained in the card itself.

First of all, it should be clarified that the SIM does not allow access to the IMEI.
 
As far as the IMSI is concerned, there is no proof or indication that this data
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

29/99

has been treated by criminals for any purpose, therefore, it has not been
accredited that their confidentiality has been affected.
 
Additionally, it has not been proven that any other information was accessed.
personal training guarded by ORANGE other than that provided by the pro-
pio delinquents obtained through social engineering techniques such as
"spoofing" and "phishing", therefore, ORANGE has not allowed access by
unauthorized zeros to personal information to which they did not have access
previously and, consequently, there has been no breach of confidentiality-
ity.
 
The AEPD mixes in its considerations the concept of access to data
as a consequence of the duplication of the SIM card with the realization
zation of banking operations.

Any liability arising from the duplication of cards is restricted
would turn, from the point of view of data protection, to the processing of information
information related to the services it provides (consumption associated with
treatment, access to private area, contracts, etc.) and on which there is no
any evidence that it has occurred.
 
However, the AEPD tries to hold ORANGE responsible and punish for
the consequences of the operations carried out by the banking entities.
Confuses the obligations of diligence in the processing of personal data
with a supposed obligation to provide security for banking operations
in relation to the identity of the clients of these third parties.
 
That is to say, it transfers the responsibility in the identification by the entities
bank transfers to telecommunications operators.
 
Banks are solely responsible for the security of their
operations. This is also confirmed by the European Banking Authority (EBA),
that in his “Opinion on the implementation of authentication methods re-
forced”, in its section on who decides on the means to be used
for said authentication (points 37 and 38), rules that the credentials of
security used to perform secure authentication of users of
the payment services are the responsibility of the entity that manages the services of
account (banks).
 
That banks usually opt for the confirmation system me-
Sending an SMS is a decision of your sole responsibility.
 
It is a very widespread method and is not particularly secure. Refer to Digi-
such Identity Guidelines: Authentication and Lifecycle Management, from the “National
Institute of Standards Department”, which rules that SMS should not be
use in two-factor authentication, because of the number of security risks
authority to which it is subject in the delivery of an SMS.
 
For its part, the European Banking Authority (EBA), in one of its responses
to the questions posed by the sector (Qualification of SMS OTP as an
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

30/99

authentication factor | European Banking Authority (europa.eu)), although
pla the SMS as admissible confirmation factor, remember that the use of
Ordinary SMS is not feasible for the confirmation of banking operations,
for not being safe enough according to the standards of the Directive
PSD2.

Additionally, it points out that this type of information is in the public domain.
and refer to three links.
 
For this reason, the fact that the modus operandi for carrying out fraud
slow banking operations can be carried out using a SIM SWAP not
can in no way be considered an admission of responsibility for the
safety of these operations.
 
In fact, the operators' diligence is forcing criminals to
look for alternative methods to obtain the content of the SMS. refer to
news and information disseminated by the National Police through social networks
cials.
 
It reiterates that the responsibility of the operators cannot cover the operations
bank transactions that criminals may carry out as a result of
that the security measures implemented by banking entities
are inappropriate. Cannot take charge of information security
of third parties for the mere fact that they use telecommunications services.
cations.

He argues that the Agency requires strict liability, in which from
a result, a fault is deduced, without any kind of assessment about it.
on the diligence displayed, an interpretation proscribed by Spanish law.

3. SECOND ALLEGATION.- UNFOUNDED GENERALIZATION OF CONSE-
NEGATIVE ACCOUNTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE ISSUANCE OF THE DUPLICATE.

The AEPD has not provided any facts or grounds to support its inter-
provision.
 
It admits that for the execution of banking operations the delinquent needs
ta, in addition to the duplication of the SIM, additionally access the information
personal information obtained illegally from the bank or from the user, for
which are not a consequence of obtaining the duplicate.
 
And in what refers to the criminal modalities that seek “other purposes”.
ties”, the arguments used to justify the presumed responsibility
ORANGE are mere speculations, which refer to potential risks
which have neither materialized nor are they the subject of this proceeding and,
from a technical point of view, they are far from correct.
 
Pretending that access to a SIM card alone allows certain actions
processes, implies an interested ignorance of the functioning of the mechanisms
security isms associated with most, if not all, of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/99

the services referred to.
 
The ability to access a user's accounts requires information
add-on not available on SIM card. Claims about the ease of
its obtaining lack any foundation and, what is more important, it is not
None of the risks has materialized nor is it the object of this procedure.
to which the AEPD refers, so its inclusion in this foundation
ment is totally inappropriate.
 
The AEPD refers to 20 cases of duplicate SIM cards when
only the complaints related to two of the
they. Try to increase this number by referring to situations whose
circumstances do not appear or are the object of this procedure is not pro-
transferor and supposes an inappropriate use of information that was fac-
commissioned by ORANGE within the framework of a request addressed by the AEPD and on
which has not been evidenced any non-compliance related to the treatment
lying of personal data.
 
In relation to the two claims that are the subject of this procedure-
are due to an inadequate application of the established protocols, which
according to statistics they are adequate and efficient and only absolutely
residual mind have been able to be overcome by criminals in their target
of illegally obtaining a duplicate SIM card.
 
It must be taken into account that the circumstances in which these
impersonations are not irrelevant.
 
In the case of claimant two, the request for the duplicate is accompanied
page of documents with the appearance of authenticity intended to deceive the
store clerk, who is also offered a believable account in which
informed that the original documentation had been stolen, along with
your wallet. As it is a copy of the DNI, it is not feasible to process it with the
Mitek verification software, since it analyzes physical characteristics and
that are only present in the original of the document.
 
In these circumstances, the employee chooses to help the person, allegedly
victim of a robbery, whose circumstances could be aggravated precisely
due to the impossibility of contacting and carrying out the pertinent
tints to avoid greater evils.
 
Ultimately, the clerk opted, breaching the protocol established by
ORANGE, for not requiring the document accrediting the appointment for renewal
of the DNI or the bank receipt accrediting the collection of the last invoice.
 
Therefore, although it is true that there is a breach of the protocol (which has
been subject to the corresponding sanction), he is induced by the delinquent
account, which created a situation in which he managed to take advantage of the good
in faith of the dependent, believing him to be the victim of a crime, using a
sophisticated and elaborate preconceived plan for this purpose.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/99

Likewise, in the case of the first complaint, the manager breaches the proto-
security code for data verification, and this enables you to
carry out the card application without following all the established controls.
 
However, this does not make the measures inappropriate, as they have
Its effectiveness has been demonstrated in practically all cases. In this
sense, that the protocol is susceptible to improvement, is an affirmation that has
to be put into context, since their statistical efficiency indicates that they have been
appropriate in (...) % of cases.
 
Regarding the improvement of protocol compliance controls, if
Although they are desirable, they cannot obviate the presence of the human factor.
 
ORANGE has given adequate instructions and information to all those involved.
two but it is not feasible to nullify the possibility that people carry out actions
tions contrary to the indications received.
  
Faced with these risks, there is only room for training and awareness of those involved and
the requirement of responsibilities in case of non-compliance, as has been
fact ORANGE, unless the AEPD suggests that the hiring of employees
with access to personal data is an unacceptable risk and all of them must
be replaced by automated processes.

4. THIRD ARGUMENT. – SUITABILITY AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE
PREVENTIVE DAYS IMPLEMENTED.

The AEPD questions the protocols that ORANGE uses. However, the
The arguments he uses to make this claim are contradictory.
 
ORANGE has made a total of approximately (…) SIM changes in
2019 without any incidence in the (...) of the cases.
 
Therefore, following the criteria of effectiveness pointed out by the AEPD itself and
although the desirable thing is always to achieve the cancellation of the risk, it is not possible to
label them as inappropriate.
 
A materialization of the risk in a percentage like the one we find
cannot be qualified as a lack of diligence in the deployment of measures.
give security
 
Impose a sanction because in two isolated cases among more than 800,000
an undesired result has occurred supposes adopting a principle of res-
objective responsibility in the sanctioning scope, vetoed by our Ordinance.
Legal procedure, as has been repeatedly reiterated by the Constitutional Court
tional.
 
Article 28 of the LRJSP, ties the responsibility to the concurrence of fraud
or fault, no longer includes the last paragraph of article 130 of Law 30/1992, it is de-
cir, the possibility of responding "... even by way of simple non-compliance".
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/99

The Constitutional Court, since its Judgment 76/1990, has been warning
on strict liability and, in any case, the requirement that the Administration
nistration, when sanctioning, prove some degree of intentionality. Exi-
ge the concurrence of guilt in the degrees of intent and fault or negligence
serious, mere negligence not being enough.
 
Therefore, the overcoming of the security measures by a third party cannot
to determine by itself that they are not adequate or sufficient.

Refers to files E/05168/2021, E/00536/2016, E/02237/2020 E/
02723/2020, E/06963/2020, E/00722/2020, E/09882/2020 and arguments
of the Agency, exponents of a duality of criteria that causes an evi-
defenseless, he does not know with certainty what to expect, nor what measures are
implement, when they are considered appropriate on certain occasions.
sions, and, in others, constituting an infraction of a very serious nature.
 
Likewise, it refers to files E/05272/2018, E/07129/2014, E/
08205/2019, E/5441/2018.
 
It is not understandable that, despite the volume of data affected by the breaches
mentioned, an adequate level of diligence is appreciated and, however, in the pre-
present procedure, where only two interested parties have been affected
two, the level of diligence shown, through
security, detection and correction measures, taking into account the number
number of SIM duplication processes carried out.

Orange is also the victim of an "attack" led by criminal organizations.
them that relies on digital and social engineering techniques aimed exclusively at
mind to overcome the security measures implemented.
 
With regard to the considerations of the AEPD on greater security
ity of the enabled channels, any channel is likely to be subject to in-
attempted fraud.
 
ORANGE has eliminated the possibility of (...) (which has reinforced measures)
security in authentication).

The punctual breach and in absolutely isolated cases by a
manager of the identity verification instructions does not imply at all
that the security protocol depends on the will of the intervening manager.
rather, it implies a breach of its obligations which, as has been
informed, has given rise to the imposition of penalties.
 
Thus, the measures pointed out by the AEPD regarding "the inclusion of these in the
information system, (...), even with controls on the system screens
of information (...)” do not guarantee any improvement in the control of these activities.
give. Any agent could accept the buttons to continue the process
despite not having carried out the specific security measure.
 
The total employee monitoring options, in addition to not being pro-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

34/99

portioned in accordance with data protection regulations, would have a cost
disproportionate, considering that it should be exhaustively controlled
all agents potentially involved in an operation of this type
(especially taking into account that the control should be carried out in time
real), when the statistics show that the related incidences are in-
signs.
 
On the other hand, it has been proven that all the agents have received the training
necessary information and that the information and management is carried out without any inci-
dence in almost all cases.
 
Additionally, it is possible to verify compliance with obligations,
since the activity of the users is registered.
 
All of the above, without prejudice to the fact that, in its process of continuous improvement of the
security, ORANGE continues to analyze possible improvements in all its procedures.
you are
 
In relation to the information detailed in the "Quick Guide", it has a date of
2017 and is provided for the purpose of verifying the measures implemented in a
prior to the occurrence of the events that are the subject of this proceeding and its
progressive improvement, revision and reinforcement.
 
Regarding the contractual documentation with the delivery companies, it is necessary to
It should be noted that in the two cases that concern us, no company intervenes.
dam or delivery service provider.
 
The certificates that ORANGE holds, recognized by the National Scheme
of Security (ENS), have a broad scope, which does not only include the
information systems, but there are a series of controls that apply to
the entire organization, in attention to different aspects, including: protection
of data, network security, use of information systems, training and
awareness and security in the human resources process.

These controls are transversal to the entire organization.
 
Far from wanting to avoid responsibility, what is requested is, precisely,
that such responsibility is limited to the treatment actually carried out, without ex-
assign the corresponding responsibility to other entities, such as operations
tions and transactions carried out by different banking entities.
 
Lastly, it should be noted that the nature of the fundamental right of the right
cho to data protection does not eliminate the need to examine due diligence
deployed by ORANGE, nor the consideration of the tiny percentage of incidents
cias that have occurred in the SIM card duplication processes.

5. FOURTH ARGUMENT. – DILIGENT PERFORMANCE BY ORANGE.

The wording is totally confusing and contradictory, so that each paragraph
fo seems to affirm the opposite of what the previous one says, to finally finish
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

35/99

projecting an indeterminate lack of diligence as the ultimate reason for the
sanction.
 
The AEPD considers that it has breached article 5.1.f), the so-called principle
pio of integrity and confidentiality.

He emphasizes the contradictions of the Agency and invokes that it causes him total indepen-
defense, because despite the fact that he has managed to prove in the procedure
compliance with their duty of diligence and being recognized, is subject to
of a sanction proposal for an undetermined reason, before which no
can present any evidence.
 
All of this leads to the fact that the AEPD is evaluating the responsibility of
Orange considering only one result, constituting an assumption
strict liability, being indifferent to the diligence displayed
in its preventive and palliative measures.
 
Reasons why they should be discarded:
 

•

The AEPD recognizes that “The risk approach and the flexible model when
risk imposed by the RGPD […] does not impose in any case the infa-
feasibility of the measures (…)”. However, it intends to penalize
two specific assumptions among almost a million.

•

• Criticizes that in one of the cases (complainant party two) no
has verified the DNI presented despite the fact that "it claims to have
a specific software to verify if the identification documents
are correct (Mitek)”. This is a technical impossibility, not a
error in the security procedure.
 
It indicates that "ORANGE's behavior is considered to respond to the typ-
title of guilt As a repository of personal data
large scale (...), it must be especially diligent and careful in its
treatment. (...) we are facing a defeatable error, since, with the application
tion of the appropriate technical and organizational measures, these substitutions
identity thefts could have been avoided.” the blame has to
to do with the diligence displayed, not with an objective fact such as the number
mere data processed.
 
“The infringement occurs not because of the lack of a specific policy of
security for the issuance of SIM duplicates, but because of the need
ity of its revision and reinforcement”. Despite acknowledging that
“ORANGE has acted diligently in minimizing the impact
those potentially affected by implementing new security measures
to avoid the repetition of similar incidents in the future.
 
The AEPD re-introduces a new criterion for liability
of ORANGE in the cases analyzed, indicating that it "is di-
directly related to the generation of consequences in third

•

•

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/99

ros”. Transfers to ORANGE the responsibility for treatments on
those who have no ability to control.
 

• The AEPD continues indicating that it does not share the fact that these
internal protocols or procedures may be considered adequate
squares “as long as they are susceptible to improvement. It is necessary to reinforce the
identification and authentication mechanisms with technical measures and
organizational measures that are especially appropriate to avoid su-
plantations”.
This concept of improvement, abstract and generic, would allow us to qualify any
any protocol as inadequate, insofar as any process is susceptible
of improvement.
 
It includes certain jurisprudence related to guilt, in which
recognizes that it does not concur if it is justified "that the
diligence that was required by the person who alleges its non-existence” or it is indicated
that "there is no negligence, nor therefore infringement, "when
exercised the necessary diligence in fulfilling the obligations.
 
The liability of a legal person must be assessed on the basis of
of the diligence displayed as an entity, manifested through the
procedures and instructions approved by it.

•

•

However, the AEPD does not state that the risks generated by
third parties (banking entities) and that are their responsibility, would be
mitigatable much more easily if they adopted measures
adequate to improve the safety of the operations they carry out.

 
Reasons why ORANGE should not be sanctioned:
 
The confidentiality of the data processed in the duplication process of the
SIM card was previously broken by banks.
 
ORANGE has no control over this operation nor can it affect its enabling.
tion/procedure/execution.
 
The succession of suppositions and possibilities cannot serve, under any circumstances,
I accept, as a justification, to impose an infraction on ORANGE without entering
value, motivatedly, the level of diligence displayed and the real facts
mind happened. These threats identified by the AEPD fall outside the
scope of action of ORANGE.
 
The AEPD considers blame for Orange's conduct, although, far from identifying and
recounting the concrete behavior, is limited to referring to the result. This procedure does not
is in accordance with current legislation, as indicated by the National High Court,
among others, in the Judgment of the Contentious-Administrative Chamber, Sec-
tion 1, of December 23, 2013, Rec. 341/2012:
It should be remembered that the reference to "simple non-compliance" has been removed.
given by the current Law 40/2015, so a lack of diligence would be necessary
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

37/99

qualified.
 
Invokes the SAN, Contentious Chamber, of February 25, 2010, number of Recur-
so 226/2009”.
 
Mere human error cannot, by itself, give rise to sanctioned consequences.
tioners.
 
The similarity of this case with the one included in the SAN must be highlighted.
of February 25, 2010: these are intrusions committed illegally,
by organized third parties with high computer knowledge, aimed at
elaborate criminal activity.
 
The fact that the AEPD and the Courts have been considering
that in the case of technical attacks (hacking), directed against companies,
it is considered that his diligence does not include having the capacity to reject this
type of attacks is interpreted in the opposite way in this case, penalizing
ORANGE because your security measures may depend on the performance
of specific people.
 
ORANGE, nor its employees or agents, may not be required to
ability to infallibly identify cases of fraud, especially
when it is offered, an “appearance of reality and seriousness sufficient to en-
win over people of average perspicacity and diligence" (so considered, among
many others, in STS 2362/2020).
 
Provides a copy sealed by the Police Headquarters and communicates the subsequent contribution
supporting documentation (claimant party two), when it is facilitated
litigated by the corresponding Information Units of the Forces and
Security forces.
 
ORANGE, within the functions included in Law 9/2014, of May 9,
General Telecommunications (hereinafter, LGTEL) and in Law 25/2007,
of October 18, actively participates in the collaboration with the agents
empowered to investigate crimes.

ORANGE should be considered as one more injured party in this type of procedure.
procedures, since it is the entity itself that also suffers a loss and sees
“attacked” their systems and assets.
 
6. FIFTH ARGUMENT. – LACK OF PROPORTIONALITY OF THE SAN-
PROPOSED TION.

Despite the fact that the AEPD has modulated the amount of the sanction imposed,
considers that, having been diligent in his actions, no imposition
of any penalty.

For the hypothetical case that the existence of a supposed in-
compliance is not proportional.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/99

It should be emphasized that no dissuasive action is necessary, as long as the
supposed object of this procedure has been carried out against
every volitional element of ORANGE.
 
ORANGE has not obtained benefit, but it has been detrimental. By
which, as far as the need for the deterrent effect is concerned, the mere eating
sion of the crime is a detriment to ORANGE.
 
Additionally, it participates voluntarily in the GT.

QUARTER. - PRINCIPLES RELATED TO TREATMENT.

ORANGE shares with the Agency the relevance of security measures for the sake of
to guarantee the fundamental right to data protection, however, it must
make a series of nuances:

• The damage suffered by both claimants has been recognized: both received

received compensation from ORANGE.

 • Particular circumstances of the claims cannot be considered.
seated nor assumptions within the object of this procedure, the
assumptions and possibilities that the AEPD elucidates: access to applications, use
of social networks, etc.

• Nothing can justify the Agency's Resolution Proposal.

• ORANGE has no control over such procedures or any influence on the me-

security measures used by banking entities.

• Although ORANGE, as data controller, has the obligation to determine
undermine its security measures, it is the person in charge of the treatment who will assume
responsibility, configuring himself as responsible, when he does not follow the instructions
instructions of the former and fails to comply with the purposes and means of the treatment in question,
as stipulated in article 28.10 of the RGPD.

 • Reiterate that on two occasions it has been possible to supplant the identity of the
plaintiffs in two SIM card duplication procedures out of a total of
approximately (…) duplication procedures, through sufficient deception,
cannot automatically determine the commission of infringement and absence of
diligence on the part of ORANGE.

 • ORANGE does not “provide duplicate SIM cards to third parties”. When

the third one got the duplicate SIM card was because he cheated the agent.

• We are not in the presence of a particularly relevant personal data. The
codes it contains need to be associated with other personal data, in order to
provide identification of the owner. Likewise, there is no evidence of access by supplant-
identity providers to personal data other than those they already knew from
prior to fraudulently obtaining the duplicate SIM card.

  • In relation to STC 292/200, the definition and consideration of
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

39/99

of the right to data protection as a fundamental right. What is not
acceptable is the intention of the Agency to impute said infraction, despite having
carried out an appropriate and adequate deployment of security measures,
in the terms of article 32 of the RGPD.

FIFTH. - SAFETY OF TREATMENT.

The legal classification made by the Agency of the infraction imputed to
ORANGE does not include the violation of article 32 of the RGPD.

SIXTH. - GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPOSITION OF THE ADMI-
NISTRATIVE.

 

The treatment carried out does not violate the data protection regulations, since
that ORANGE has displayed an appropriate level of diligence in imposing
tion of the necessary technical and organizational measures to avoid the commission
of fraud in requests for duplicate SIM cards.

The proposed sanction is in any case disproportionate, taking into account the circumstances
Cunstances and content of the alleged infractions.
 
Recitals 11 and 13 of the RGPD, which refer to guaranteeing the
effective protection of personal data and to do so consistently,
point out that this objective also depends on the fact that “infractions are punished
guen with equivalent sanctions”.

  - Aggravating:

1. Nature and seriousness of the infraction:

The loss of control and disposal of personal data does not start when
ORANGE performs the duplication, but it takes place before, at the time when
that individuals gain access to claimants' personal data.
 
The reference to the role of the mobile phone does nothing but certify the transfer of res-
responsibility towards ORANGE, without taking into account that the limitation of these
risks corresponds to those required by said regulations.
 
This section does not assess the nature and seriousness of the offense charged.
but the subsequent activity carried out by the indi-
viduos who supplant the identity.
 
Categorize the nature and seriousness of the treatment carried out by ORANGE,
It requires evaluating the security measures established in the security procedures.
SIM card duplication.
  
Reiterate that third parties have not had access in either of the two cases.
to the mobile phones of the claimants, and, consequently, neither
to the information that they could store, which is different, in any
case, of the information that a SIM card can store.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/99

 2. Duration of the offense:

These proceedings concern the claims of two claimants.
  
In the case of claimant one, the events have taken place since the afternoon
from July 22, 2019, until the morning of July 24.
  
In the case of complaining party two, the duration is just a few hours in
on January 8, 2020, since the duplicate was fraudulently made
until the claimant is aware and ORANGE manages the impersonation of
identity.
  
The time during which claimants do not have access to their SIM card is
less than 48 hours in one case and less than 8 hours in the other.
  
Therefore, the Agency cannot consider the duration of the alleged infractions.
an aggravating element, insofar as they have been punctual, localized,
ized, identified and managed in minimum periods of time.
 
The reference to the (...) cases that, together with ORANGE
VIRTUAL ESPAÑA, S.A.U (SIMYO), were accounted for during 2019. No
the relationship of none of the other cases with the infringement has been justified
imputed, nor would this serve to consider the temporal scope of the same.

3. Number of stakeholders affected:

This procedure is limited to two cases.
 
The existence of more cases of
Duplicate processes of SIM cards with incidents, in both the facts and
Specific assumptions have not been brought up in this proceeding:
No claims have been made by the owners of the data, nor have they been analyzed.
lysed the facts nor the responsibilities derived from them.
 
Therefore, this part considers that, far from being considered an aggravating circumstance, the infi-
The number of stakeholders should be evaluated as a mitigating element.

4. Level of damages suffered:

ORANGE is not responsible for the identification and verification policies of
customers established by banking entities.
 
Nor could the banking operations have taken place if the entity
financial institution used another security system in the verification, for example, the
use of biometric data or the identification of the mobile terminal from which
access the bank application, as is already done by some entities.
financial des.
 
The Agency does not assess the level of damages, as long as it is
limit to indicate that these "multiply" when the duplicate of the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

41/99

SIM card to a person other than the owner, without explaining the relationship between
this affirmation and the facts object of analysis in this proceeding.
 
In relation to the origin that indicates to carry out an impact assessment
this, you cannot claim that, in an impact assessment carried out by
ORANGE regarding the issuance of duplicate SIM cards, the possibilities of
from committing fraud in carrying out banking operations through
applications and electronic banking of third parties.

For all of the above, it cannot be affirmed that the duplication process derives
directly, nor necessarily, fraudulent banking operations, since
that the data spoofers need to perform them span many
more information and operations than SIM card duplication.

 5. Intentionality or negligence in the infringement:

The Agency requires Orange to have an absolute obligation of result, as long as
the level of diligence is not being evaluated in attention to the measures and
established procedures, but only attends to the result obtained.
  
The AEPD thus introduces strict liability rejected by our Tri-
Constitutional Court, as we have already indicated, in the jurisprudence that emanates
of the STC 76/1990 of April 26, inasmuch as it cannot be required in the san-
Administration officer.
 
The Agency also contradicts the jurisprudence (Judgment of the Supreme Court of 23
January 1998): if there is no intentionality or volitional element of ORANGE,
as it is being recognized, and having deployed these security measures
before and after the cases that concern us, as well as procedures
improvement cough; no level of negligence can be imputed to it, as long as
said qualification requires that the legal entity show a minimum degree of
intent, manifested through lack of diligence.
 
That is why it cannot be considered negligent, as long as
have established appropriate procedures, which have been reviewed and
progressively reinforced.

6. Degree of responsibility of the person in charge:

In the two cases that concern us, the agents failed to comply with the policy of
security and the concrete measures that it imposed.
 
In addition, it has preventive, technical and organizational measures,
palliative and coercive measures, by which those who do not
comply with the imposed obligations.
  
Thus, one can only interpret that, far from this criterion being an aggravating circumstance,
should be interpreted in favor of ORANGE.

7. Categories of personal data affected by the infringement:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/99

It has only been possible to determine the processing of identifying personal data
basic, whose knowledge by criminals was prior to the duplication of
the card.
 
As we have had the opportunity to explain, the theory that the SIM card is
a personal data has no support, but a container of data and codes
gos that only allow user identification if information is available
additional.
 
Sending SMS has nothing to do with the type of data processed by analysis.
ted at this point.
 
Therefore, the type of data being processed must be considered as
a mitigation.

- Attenuating factors:

1. Measures taken by the person responsible to alleviate the damages suffered
two for those interested:

The Motion for a Resolution includes preventive measures as mitigating
and coercive, but makes no mention of palliative and compensatory measures.
tions that it has implemented in the two cases that concern us, and that
should be considered mitigating.

2. The profits obtained as a result of the commission of the infraction.

Despite the fact that in the Start Agreement the Agency values the lack of benefit of
ORANGE, we must insist that not only does the absence of benefits
but it has caused damage, it has had to carry out investigations
internal complaints, make compensation to the complainants and reevaluate procedures
ments and protocols.

ORANGE also suffers identity theft by third parties
unauthorized, as they deceive the agents and generate damage to their
service.

To conclude, it considers that the provisions of
Article 76.3 of the LOPDGDD regarding sanctions and corrective measures:
“It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate,
da, of the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679” which indicates that administrative fines are imposed
will put “as an additional or substitute for the measures contemplated in art.
Article 58, section 2, letters a) to h)”.

 

   

  

Taking into account the concurrent circumstances and the null intentionality or
fault of ORANGE, in the event that it is considered that there is some type of in-
fraction of the RGPD, the economic sanction proposal should be replaced
for the adoption of the corrective measures contemplated in the aforementioned article
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

43/99

58, consisting of the warning or warning to the data controller
and the imposition of the obligation to adopt measures to carry out
treatments “in a certain way and within a specified period”
do".

In this regard, ORANGE understands that the initially estimated fine
can be perfectly replaced by the obligatory adoption of measures
rectors.

  

CONCLUSIONS

1º.- Although the information stored on the SIM card could be considered -
never the card itself - as personal data, it has not been proven that the
themselves have been the object of treatment during the time in which the offenders
many had duplicate SIM cards operational.

2º.- The criminals did not obtain any additional personal data from ORANGE.
nal to those who already had prior to going to ORANGE, obtained from
banking entities and that are used to supplant the identity of the
affected, so that the treatment carried out does not imply an infringement of the
confidentiality of personal data.

3º.- The responsibility of teleoperators for cases of impersonation of
identity in the request for copies of SIM cards cannot cover the operations
bank operations can be carried out as a result of the measures
security of banking entities are inadequate. can't be done
charge of the security of the information of third parties by the mere fact
cho that they use telecommunications services.

4º.- It has been proven that the two assumptions are due to an inadequate
application of the protocols established by ORANGE that, as evidenced by
statistics, are adequate and efficient and only absolutely
residual have been able to be overcome by criminals.

5º.- The overcoming of the security measures by a third party cannot determine
automatically determine that they are inadequate since it implies applying
establish a principle of strict liability in the sanctioning field, vetoed
by our legal system.

6º.- The AEPD has declared certain facts accredited (which has a
security policy in which the mode of action for the expedition is established
of the duplicates; that an infringement of article 32 cannot be inferred, nor
little of article 5.2 and 25 of the RGPD; that there are protocols to prevent
identity theft; that have been transferred to those involved in the
imitation; that improvements have been made after discovering certain vulnerabilities;
that there are penalties for its non-compliance or that it has acted diligently-
when it comes to minimizing the impact by implementing new security measures.
ity).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/99

For all of the above, it is not appropriate to declare the existence of an infringement of art.
Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD nor, consequently, the imposition of any sanction, in
both an adequate level of diligence has been accredited and it has not been accredited
no breach of the duty of confidentiality.

(Underlining, italics, and bold are ORANGE.)

These Allegations will be answered in the FD of this Resolution.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following are accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: ORANGE is responsible for the data processing referred to in the
this Resolution, since according to the definition of article 4.7 of the RGPD
is who determines the purpose and means of the treatments carried out with the purposes
des indicated in its Privacy Policy, among others: the provision of services
of telecommunications, the maintenance and management of the relationship in order to give
compliance with the provisions of the contract signed between the parties (Manage the registration
inside the User and allow access to the activities and tools available through
see the website www.orage.es; carry out the User registration, as well as the maintenance
maintenance and management of the contractual relationship with ORANGE; manage, process and give
response to requests, requests, incidents or queries from the User, when the User
provide your data through the forms provided for this purpose on the Website
www.orange.es, etc.)

SECOND: ORANGE provides its mobile telephony services through three brands
commercials that are: ORANGE, AMENA and JAZZTEL. Each of them has
different operating procedures.

THIRD: On August 6, 2019, this Agency received a claim
mation made by claimant one (file with reference number E/
08994/2019), directed -among others- against ORANGE, after being issued on July 22
of 2019, a duplicate of the SIM card of the line ***TELÉFONO.1, in favor of a
third person other than the owner of the line -the claimant party one-.

These facts were denounced before the Civil Guard of Baiona (Pontevedra), in fe-
cha July 24, 2019, with certificate number ***CERTIFICATE.1 in which the part
Claimant one stated the following:

‘That the denouncer today, around 09:00 a.m. verified that her telephone
XIAOMI Mi A1 mobile phone-with number ***PHONE.1 of the company ORAN-
GE, with IMEI's number ***IMEI.1 and ***IMEI.2, stopped working.

He went to the ORANGE store to ask what had happened, checked
store than the SIM card ***SIM.1 that was installed in the phone
mobile phone did not work, so they made a new SIM card ***SIM.2.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/99

 

 

The store employee realized that the SIM card she had installed in her
phone did not match the one in the ORANGE database.
That the SIM card that appeared in the ORANGE database is ***SIM.3.

That at the time that the deponent installed the new SIM card ***SIM.2 she received
two text messages (SMS) from SANTEVIÓS, with an SMS code to transfer
5,000 euros and an SMS from INFOSNET with an SMS code to transfer
reference of 5000 euros.

That the demonstrator, once the change request form is delivered
note that the email ***EMAIL ACCOUNT.1 does not apply
with the email provided to ORANGE. That the email you provided is ***ACCOUNT
MAIL.2(…)

That the protester gets in touch with ORANGE by phone through the
1470 and they inform ORANGE that two calls were made, one to change
change the email and another to request the duplicate of the SIM card, call
calls that were made on 07/22/20219, one at 2:00 p.m. and the other at
19:15 hours stating the number of the latter ***NUMBER.1.

That from the ORANGE store they enter the user profile and it is observed that
there are five calls to the telephone number ***TELÉFONO.2 that corresponds
to Santander's online banking (...)

That the protester examines the movements of her three bank accounts and
of his two cards and observe:

Which unknown author(s) had made a transfer of the VISA card
***VISA.1 for the amounts of 700 and 500 euros to the account ***ACCOUNT.1 (Ban-
co Popular) being the mirror account of the account ***ACCOUNT.2 (B. Santander).

The protester realizes that on July 22, 2019 unknown authors ten
A new VISA credit card with ***VISA.2 numbering was registered.

What unknown author(s) carry out a transfer of the card ***VISA.2 of 5000
euros to the bank account numbered ***ACCOUNT.3 (Banco Popular) being the
mirror account of account ***ACCOUNT.4 (B. Santander).

Which unknown author(s) made three transfers from his bank account
***ACCOUNT.5, (...) were 1000 euros each, sent to the accounts
***ACCOUNT.6 (EVO BANK); ***ACCOUNT.7 (EVO BANK) and ***ACCOUNT.8
(OPEN BANK) that for each of these transfers they charge the amount
of 6 euros.

Which unknown author(s) make a transfer from the account
***ACCOUNT.3(...) to account ***ACCOUNT.8 (OPEN BANK) for the amount of
250 euros, including a charge of 6 euros for expenses.

What unknown author/s of the account numbered ***ACCOUNT.1 (...) rea-
Three transfers were made, the first being for the amount of 5,000 euros to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/99

account ***ACCOUNT.6 (EVO BANK). A second transfer of 250 euros to
account ***CUENTA.8 (OPEN BANK), a third transfer of 250 euros to
the account ***ACCOUNT.8 (OPEN BANK). (…)

There is a "Request for changes in the Postpaid mobile communications service"
with a contact date of July 23, 2019, in which it appears in the "Data of the
Customer”, the email of the impersonating person “***MAIL ACCOUNT.1” and in the
"Data of the Contracted Services" the new assigned SIM card number
***SIM.2.

There is a list of calls made from said SIM to the telephone line of the San-
tander ***TELÉFONO.2, and a summary of the transfers and deposits made without
Your consent.

C.C.C.: (…)
Concept
Immediate transfer in favor of Juan
Immediate transfer in favor of Juan
Immediate transfer in favor of Juan

C.C.C.: (…)
Concept
Deposit account from cards
Immediate transfer in favor of Lil

C.C.C.: (…)
Concept
Immediate transfer in favor of Juan
Immediate transfer in favor of Hugo
Immediate transfer in favor of Hugo
Deposit account from cards
Deposit account from cards

Date
07/22/2019
07/23/2019
07/23/2019

Date
07/23/2019
07/23/2019

Date
07/22/2019
07/23/2019
07/23/2019
07/23/2019
07/23/2019

Amount
1,006.00
1,006.00
1,006.00

Amount
5,000.00
256.00

Amount
5,006.00
256.00
256.00
700.00
500.00

In relation to this claim, ORANGE confirmed to this Agency that the card
SIM was acquired (...) and it was activated through (...) on July 22,
2019 at 6:52 p.m. The activation, he affirms, is carried out (...) in breach of the guidelines
procedures established by ORANGE to verify the identity of the client.

FOURTH: On June 5, 2020, a claim was received by this Agency
tion made by the complaining party two (file with reference number E/
05031/2020), directed against ORANGE, after being issued on January 8, 2020, a
duplicate of the SIM card of the line ***TELÉFONO.3, in favor of a third person.
na other than the owner of the line -the claimant party two-.

The facts were denounced before the General Directorate of the National Police in the
dependencies of San Andrés (Murcia), on January 9, 2020, with identification number
certified XXX/YY, with the following tenor:

“That on the day of the date the complainant's wife receives an SMS which informs her
way that through the number of the decedent has requested a duplicate card-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/99

ta of your phone number.

That the declarant states that he has not authorized such an operation with his number by
so he contacts his phone company, ORANGE, to confirm-
dole this the processing of the duplicate, alleging that it may have been a mistake
by ORANGE.

That the declarant at that time realizes that he does not have coverage in
your mobile phone.

Who decides to check their bank accounts realizing that they have suspended
brought 300 euros from an ATM located at the scene without authorization
tion. (…)”

In relation to this claim, ORANGE confirmed to this Agency that the duplicate
The SIM card request was made on 01/08/2020 from (...) and was obtained through the
contribution of manipulated documentation among which was (...). It was detected
ted the same day of its activation, 01/08/2020, when associating the activation of the line
***PHONE.3 to IMEI ***IMEI.3, which was included in (...) used by the
Risk Analysis Group.

There is evidence provided (...) with which the supplanting person identified himself as the substitute party.
crying two, and it is observed (...) in different fields:

- (...).

- (...).

It is verified that some documents are missing to be delivered according to the ORANGE protocol:

- (...).

- (...).

FIFTH: The two complaints filed affect clients of the ORANGE brand.
GE.

SIXTH: ORANGE has a request and action management model for this brand.
Activation of duplicate SIM cards that it lends through (...).

.- (…)
.- (…)

(...):

(...):

- (…)

- (…)

- (…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

(...):

- (…)

- (…)

- (…)

- (…)

SEVENTH: ORANGE has a system (...)

(…)

(…)
(…)
(…)
(…)

(…)

(…)
(…)
(…)
(…)

(...):

- (...).

- (...).

- (...):

- (...).

- (...).

(...):

- (...):

- (...):

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

either (…).

either (…).

either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).

48/99

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/99

- (…)

(...):

either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).

either (…).
either (…).
either (…).

(...).
EIGHTH: (...):

either (…).
(...).

As (...) reports the following:

 (…).
 (…).
 (…).
 (…).

Regarding the (...) reports:

 (…).

NINTH: (...), ORANGE collects the following information:

(...).

(...).

Point 1 called (...) contains the following specifications:

- (...).

- (...).

- (...):

- (...):

- (…)

 - (…)

 - (…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/99

- (...):

- (…)

 - (…)

(…)

- (…)

 - (...).

 - (...).

- (...).

- (…)

- (...).

- (...).

- (...).

As for the (...) ORANGE includes the following specifications:

• (…)

• (…).

TENTH: (...):

(...).

(...).

(...).

(...).

It is noted that the image of the first DNIe (issued since 2006) is not included.
until the end of 2015) available on the website of the General Police Directorate:
https://www.dnielectronico.es/PortalDNIe/PRF1_Cons02.action?
page=REF_3004&id_menu=51

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/99

It is verified that the new DNIe is not included among the identification documents
4.0, operational since the entry into force of EU Regulation 2019/1157 of the Parliament
European and Council of June 20, 2019, on the reinforcement of the security of
the identity documents of the citizens of the Union and of the documents of
residence issued to citizens of the Union and to members of their families who
exercise their right to free movement, that is, from August 2, 2021.

ELEVENTH: ORANGE is part of the Spanish Association for Digitization and
participates in the "Secure Digital Identity (IDS)" project, which aims -among
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/99

others, protect against fraud and cyberattacks and the defense of the privacy of the
data.

It actively participates in the proposal of different driving projects and in the development
llo of applications that guarantee the IDS.
(…)
TWELFTH: ORANGE has adopted a series of actions to prevent SIM
Swapping:

either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…).
either (…)
either (…).
either (…).

THIRTEENTH: There is evidence of the dissemination of several "Internal Memoranda" issued by
the Fraud Department:

Contents
(…)
(…)
(…)
(…)
(…)

Date
09/11/2019
09/11/2019
09/12/2019
9/10/2019
12/19/2019
FOURTEENTH: There is a recording related to the activation of a request for
duplication of SIM card on the line ***TELÉFONO.4 made on date
04/22/2019. The activation of the SIM card is requested through (...) without the agent
business properly applies the protocol (...). There is no record of sending the
correspondent (…).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST: Competition.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/99

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the AEPD is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.
Of the participation of the telecommunications operators, and the other interveners
and of the conclusions or agreements reached in the WG and that appear in the
corresponding minutes, it cannot be deduced that the AEPD has validated
do any type of action by ORANGE in relation to the facts under analysis
in the present procedure.
The AEPD has attributed a series of competencies, powers and functions provided for in
Articles 55 and following of the RGPD that according to article 8 of the LRJSP,
They are inalienable and are exercised by the administrative bodies that have them attributed.
you give as your own
In the exercise of the functions and powers attributed to it by articles 57 and 58 of the
RGPD, controls the application of the RGPD, conducts investigations and imposes, where appropriate,
administrative sanctions which may include administrative fines, and
orders the corresponding corrective measures, according to the circumstances of each
particular case. Thus, you can carry out the investigations you deem appropriate (ar-
Article 67 of the LOPDGDD), after which you can decide to initiate an ex officio procedure
sanctioning party (article 68 LOPDGDD).
In the case examined, the investigations carried out in order to determine the co-
mission of some facts and the scope of these revealed a possible lack
of security measures that has directly affected the duty to maintain confidentiality.
confidentiality of customer data.
SECOND: Applicable regulations.
Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency shall be governed by the provisions of the Regulations
to (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions
dictated in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, on a subsidiary basis, by
the general rules on administrative procedures.”
THIRD: Violation.
The actions outlined in the Background had the purpose of analyzing the
procedures followed to manage SIM change requests by
ORANGE, identifying the vulnerabilities that may exist in the procedures
implemented operations, to detect the causes for which they could be pro-
ducting these cases, as well as finding points of non-compliance, improvement or adjustment,
to determine responsibilities, reduce risks and increase safety in the workplace.
treatment of the personal data of the affected persons.
The facts declared previously proven, violate article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and
are constitutive of the infringement provided for in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD that we consider
ra very serious infraction the violation of:

“the basic principles for treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9,”

Likewise, it is classified as sanctioned with an administrative fine of 20,000,000.00 euros.
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
as a maximum of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/99

higher, opting for the highest amount.
They are also constitutive of the infraction typified in article 72.1.a) of the LO-
PDGDD that considers a very serious infraction for the purposes of the prescription:

“The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

Article 75 of the LPACAP refers to the "Instruction Acts" as those necessitated
necessary for the determination, knowledge and verification of the facts under
of which the resolution must be pronounced. Well, the instruction resulted after
the analysis of the evidence practiced and the allegations adduced in accordance with the
seen in articles 76 and 77 of the LPACAP, that ORANGE has a policy of
security in which the way of acting before data processing is established
personnel necessary for the issuance of duplicate cards. Nevertheless,
It was also proven that adequate security had not been guaranteed in the
processing of personal data, taking into account the result produced by the su-
identity plantation.
The concept of proactive responsibility is linked to the concept of compliance.
regulatory enforcement or compliance, already present in other regulatory areas (we refer to
We refer, for example, to the provision of article 31 bis of the Penal Code).

Thus, article 24 of the RGPD determines that “1. Considering the nature, the
scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as the risks of different probabilities.
ity and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person responsible
of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to guarantee
czar and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with this Regulation. Gave-
These measures will be reviewed and updated as necessary.
2. When they are provided in relation to treatment activities, between
the measures mentioned in section 1 shall include the application, by the res-
responsible for the treatment, of the appropriate data protection policies”.
Proactive responsibility implies the implementation of a compliance model and
management of the RGPD that determines the generalized fulfillment of the obligations
in terms of data protection. It includes the analysis, planning, establishment
maintenance, updating and control of data protection policies in
an organization, especially if it is a large company, -understood as the set-
set of guidelines that govern the performance of an organization, practices, procedures
and tools, among others-, from privacy by design and by default, which
guarantee compliance with the RGPD, that prevent the materialization of risks and
that allow the controller to demonstrate compliance.
Pivot on risk management. As established in Report 0064/2020
of the Legal Office of the AEPD shows the metamorphosis of a system that has
gone from being reactive to becoming proactive, since "at the present time,
It must be borne in mind that the RGPD has meant a paradigm shift when approaching
give the regulation of the right to the protection of personal data, which becomes the foundation
be based on the principle of "accountability" or "proactive responsibility" as
The AEPD has repeatedly pointed out (Report 17/2019, among many others) and it is re-
takes in the Statement of Reasons of the LOPDGDD: "the greatest novelty presented by the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is the evolution of a model based, fundamentally, on
in the control of compliance to another that rests on the principle of responsibility
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

55/99

active, which requires a prior assessment by the person in charge or by the person in charge of the
treatment of the risk that could be generated by the treatment of personal data.
personnel to, based on said assessment, adopt the appropriate measures”.
It requires a conscious, committed, active and diligent attitude. consciousness
assumes knowledge of your organization by the data controller and
of how it is affected by data protection and the risks inherent to the
personal data processing; Commitment involves the will to comply and the
be truly responsible for the implementation of protection policies
of data in the organization; the active attitude is related to proactivity,
effectiveness, efficiency and operability; and diligence is the care, zeal and dedication
tion put into compliance.
Based on the foregoing, it can be affirmed that, from the instruction of the procedure, as
as inferred from the Proven Facts and considering the context of article 24 of the
RGPD in relation to ORANGE, it was verified, among others, the implementation of a
most effective model for avoiding the risk of identity theft, the review, re-
strength and improvement of the security measures applied in the different channels
to ensure the identification and delivery procedure of the SIM card, with the
in order to prevent the materialization of fraud. Also, the immediate reaction to
the facts described and the capacity of the operator to demonstrate its compliance.
For all the above, we focus the facts on the infraction derived from article 5.1.f)
of the GDPR.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with the principle of proactive responsibility itself, it is the
The person responsible for the treatment must determine what the security measures are.
to be implemented, since only the latter has in-depth knowledge of its organization.
tion, the treatments it carries out, the risks associated with them and the
the precise security measures to be implemented to make effective the principle of in-
integrity and confidentiality.
Now, it has been proven that the measures implemented by ORANGE were
sufficient and not only because it has been exceeded and the transfer of data per-
sound to a third party.
In a non-exhaustive manner and by way of example, we will focus on the deficient confi-
guration of the existing controls in the information systems that did not reflect
the traceability of the change produced in the personal data of the client (address of
email -claimant party one-).
Or for example, the fact that the face-to-face route is determined as a priority channel
for the request of SIM duplicates. However, ORANGE (…). If an operator
establishes a certain measure such as the one exposed, of prevalence of a certain
channel, the circumstances to avoid the measure should be controlled, since
otherwise, the implemented security policy is being distorted.
Also, if there are (...), it would be desirable for the system not to allow continuation with
the SIM change process if (...). ORANGE argues that in the case of the claimant
two, when dealing with (...), when previously, in the instruction of the procedure
lie has confirmed otherwise:
(...):
- (…)
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

56/99

- (…)

- (…)

- (…)
- (…)
- (…)

- (...).
- (…)

On the other hand, and in terms of the means used to identify the owner in person,
owner of the line in order to obtain a duplicate SIM card, (...).
Especially significant is the case of claimant two in which (...).
In addition, the (...) does not include the image of the first DNIe (issued from
2006 until the end of 2015) or the new DNIe 4.0.
Likewise, ORANGE contributed a (...):

(...).

(...).

This information does not correspond to what ORANGE alleges on July 27
of 2020, in which he confirms (…). Likewise, the information related to obtaining
the SIM (...) is not updated, since that access channel was eliminated on date 29
July 2019.
In short, to improve compliance with security policies, the instructions
transferred must be clear and up-to-date.
Likewise, ORANGE has not provided contractual documentation with the company, where
the conditions of delivery and the security guarantees in the identification
the client's. Let us remember that, although in the case of the complaining party one obtains
ga the SIM card (...) and in the case of the complaining party two, in person, the
Agency actions have been developed to investigate the entire procedure
shipping and delivery. Therefore, it would be advisable to include in the contracts the commitment
delivery of the SIM only upon prior verification of the identity of the
addressee and exclusively to him.

As for the change in the offending type that the AEPD had been habitually imputing in
the cases in which the fraudsters managed to supplant the identity of the clients
with different purposes (article 6.1 RGPD), and the imputation to ORANGE of the
responsibility for the result of the fraud carried out by a third party, we must indicate
that the AEPD has attributed, by virtue of articles 57 and 58 of the RGPD, functions
of investigation, as appropriate, regarding the claims presented to the
effect.
In the case now examined, the AEPD, after carrying out the investigations
timely and in relation to a series of specific facts that it considers proven,
incardinates them in the offending type that it considers appropriate, according to the application
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

57/99

tion and interpretation of the regulations, motivating such action in a detailed and sufficient manner.
tuation. And it is that the AEPD, like the rest of the public powers, is linked to the
principle of legality (article 9.1 and 9.3 Constitution -CE-) that implies the application and
interpretation of the norms according to the assumption of specific fact that concurs
in each case.
It should be noted that ORANGE does not explain to what extent your rights are affected.
defense and procedural rights for subsuming the facts in article 5.1 f) and not
in article 6.1 of the RGPD.
It argues that the Agency has not justified the reason why it considers that it incurs the
infringement of article 5.1.f) RGPD.
However, the AEPD has motivated with a brief reference to facts and grounds
of law, as required by article 35.1.h) of the LPACAP, the basis for its decision
cision. Likewise, it has guaranteed the rights provided for in article 64.2.f) and 89.2 of
the LPACAP, among which is the right to make allegations, without, for
Therefore, it can plead helplessness. He has been able to allege and contribute to the procedure everything
that to its right has agreed, without any limitation on the part of the AEPD. All
The allegations made to this effect have been considered and answered.
Furthermore, let us remember that treating personal data without a legal basis,
that is to say, without the legitimizing assumptions foreseen in the aforementioned precept, it has as
consequently an unlawful treatment, that is, contrary to paragraph 1 of article 5 of the
GDPR. At that time, the same precept that is imputed in the case analyzed and, in any
In any case, in the face of a hypothetical imputation of article 6.1, as ORANGE maintains,
Article 85.3 a) of the GDPR would also apply.
On the other hand, it is perfectly admissible that the AEPD has considered the violation
tion of a certain precept in the conviction that it is more in line with the
events that occur, without this action being able to be described as arbitrary, especially
when properly motivated. At the beginning of this FD we already indicated that the actions
The Agency's hearings were intended to analyze the procedures applied to the
SIM card change requests. The SIM card constitutes the physical support through
through which the personal data of the affected person is accessed. But
its provision and control, access to the owner's personal data, as well as
such as the possible use or uses by third parties, becomes a threat that can
have devastating effects on the lives of these people.
Thus, the fraud known as "SIM Swapping" is a criminal technique
consisting of obtaining a duplicate of the SIM card associated with a telephone line
ownership of a user, in order to impersonate their identity to obtain access
so to your social networks, instant messaging applications, banking applications,
rias or electronic commerce, in order to interact and carry out operations in your
name, authenticating by means of a username and password previously taken from
that user, as well as with the double factor authentication when receiving the confirmation SMS.
mation in their own mobile terminal where they will have inserted the duplicate SIM card.
It should be noted that in the first phase of this type of scam the impersonator considers
fraudulently mislead login details or online banking credentials
of the client, but he needs to be able to know the verification code, second factor of increase
authentication, to be able to execute any operation. The moment you achieve
the duplicate SIM card already also has access to this second authentication factor.
tion and, therefore, from that moment and under certain circumstances, you can make
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

58/99

the acts of patrimonial disposal that you want. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the
operator to establish requirements that, although a quick reading may seem
be very strict, a much more careful reading has shown that it is not
were. With which, the scam or impersonation, which apparently could seem complete
and difficult, it is observed that it has not been so difficult due to the inadequacy of the measures
security measures when it comes to monitoring who is the owner of the SIM card or the person
this authorized the one requesting the duplicate.
FOURTH: Treatment of personal data and data controller
Article 4 of the RGPD, under the heading "Definitions", provides the following:
“1) «personal data»: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;
2) «processing»: any operation or set of operations carried out on data
personal data or sets of personal data, either by automated procedures
ized or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation,
adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission
sion, dissemination or any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection,
limitation, suppression or destruction”.
7) “responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person, autho-
public authority, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the
purposes and means of treatment; whether the law of the Union or of the Member States
determines the purposes and means of the treatment, the controller or the criteria
Specific criteria for their appointment may be established by Union Law or
of the Member States”
8) “in charge of the treatment” or “in charge”: the natural or legal person, authorized
public entity, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the res-
responsible for the treatment;
ORANGE, is responsible for the data processing referred to in the foregoing.
exposed, since according to the definition of article 4.7 of the RGPD it is the
that determines the purpose and means of the treatments carried out with the purposes
indicated in its Privacy Policy, as has been proven in the Proceedings.
bados, section First.
Likewise, the issuance of a duplicate SIM card supposes the treatment of the damages
personal data of its owner since any person will be considered an identifiable natural person.
person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular through
by an identifier (article 4.1) of the RGPD).
In this sense, it should be clarified that, inside the mobile terminal, the card is inserted
SIM. It is a smart card, in physical format and of reduced dimensions, which contains
It has a chip in which the service key of the subscriber or subscriber is stored.
gives to identify itself to the network, that is, the customer's mobile phone number
MSISDN (Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network - Mobile Station Network
Integrated Services Digital-), as well as the personal identification number of the
subscriber IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity - International Identity of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

59/99

mobile subscriber-) but can also provide other types of data such as information
tion on the telephone list or the calls and messages list.
The SIM card can be inserted into more than one mobile terminal, provided that it is
is released or is from the same company.
In Spain, since 2007, through the Unique Additional Provision of the Law
25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to communications
electronic networks and public communications networks (hereinafter, Law 25/2007),
requires that holders of all SIM cards, whether prepaid or contract, be
be duly identified and registered. This is important because the identification
cation of the subscriber will be essential to register the SIM card, which entails
It will be necessary that when obtaining a duplicate of this, the person requesting it must
also identify themselves and that their identity coincides with that of the holder.
ORANGE adduces a series of nuances regarding the data subject to treatment.
unto
The treatment activity questioned has been the request and action management model.
Activation of duplicate SIM cards that you lend through the face-to-face channel (from
points of sale) and the online channel (through the Mi Orange App and the area of
client/e-Care), not the treatments carried out by third parties or other entities.
des, such as the financial ones, which it invokes in the allegations.
He reasons that there is no evidence that the IMSI has been dealt with. In this sense, the IMSI in the me-
measure that makes it possible to single out an individual, and therefore identify him, must be considered
data of a personal nature in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD.
It is worth mentioning the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union
(STJUE) of October 19, 2016 Case C-582/14, which considers that even the di-
dynamic IP address must be considered personal data to the extent that
the service provider has the means to know the identity of the holder of that di-
dynamic IP address.
Or the most recent STJUE of June 17, 2021 Case C-579/19 that in its section
102 recalls that “(…) A dynamic IP address registered by a service provider
online media services on the occasion of the consultation by a person of an In-
internet that that provider makes accessible to the public constitutes with respect to said pro-
sees personal data within the meaning of article 4, point 1, of the Regulation
2016/679, when he has legal means that allow him to identify the person.
interested person thanks to the additional information available to the provider of ac-
Internet access of that person (...).
This means that as long as there is the possibility of carrying out the identification, we will be
We are dealing with personal data.
This consideration is important in relation to the specific case, as remember
that the dynamic IP address is one that changes from time to time, for example
by changes in the network, or by the reboot of the device with which the service provider
services the connection provides, as opposed to the static IP address that
it is always the same. In any case, the company that provides the telecommunications service
cations knows at all times which is the dynamic IP through which the
ce the connection in relation to each of its clients.
If the CJEU considers said dynamic IP address to be personal data, “which changes every
certain time” it is logical to consider that the IMSI, which have a permanent character and
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

60/99

from which is derived, therefore, a better individualization of the user and also his identity.
fication, may also have such consideration.
Likewise, the Judgment of the Provincial Court (SAP) of Barcelona no. 390/2019
of May 30, provides: "However, the identity of the holder of the SIM card, or
which is the same, the identity of the holder of the telephone number associated with said card-
ta, does not constitute traffic data derived from telephone communications or a
data that affects the communication itself. There is no doubt that it is a fact
personal information regarding the privacy of the person covered by art. 18.1 EC.”
Therefore, the SIM card identifies a phone number and this number in turn,
identifies its owner. In this sense, the Judgment of the CJEU in case C -
101/2001(Lindqvist) of 6.11.2003, section 24, Rec. 2003 p. I-12971: «The concept of
"personal data" used in article 3, paragraph 1, of Directive 95/46
understands, in accordance with the definition contained in article 2, letter a), of said Directive
goes "any information about an identified or identifiable natural person". This con-
The concept undoubtedly includes the name of a person next to their telephone number or
other information relating to your working conditions or your hobbies'.
Also, this opinion is singled out in relation to mobile telephony devices
that allow the location of the interested party, in Opinion 13/2011 on services
of geolocation in smart mobile devices (document WP185):

“Smart mobile devices. Smart mobile devices are
are inextricably linked to natural persons. Normally there is
direct and indirect identification. First of all, the operators of
telecommunications that provide access to the mobile Internet and through
GSM network normally have a record with the name, address and
the bank details of each customer, together with several unique numbers of the
device, such as IMEI and IMSI. (…)”

In fact, the clause “2.1.2. SIM card” of the general conditions of the services
ORANGE services, has: The SIM Card is a card that can be physical or digital
"eSIM" and that allows to identify the Service subscribed by the Client and the contracted line
in order to provide you with the Mobile Service. Hereinafter, the terms “SIM” or “Card
SIM” may be understood to refer indistinctly to the physical SIM Card or eSIM.
Likewise, ORANGE in the document (...) provided on July 27, 2020, in-
form:

“(…).”

In short, both the data processed to issue a duplicate SIM card and the
SIM card (Subscriber Identity Module) that uniquely and uniquely identifies
to the subscriber in the network, they are personal data, and their treatment must be
subject to data protection regulations.
FIFTH: Allegations adduced to the Resolution Proposal.
We proceed to respond to them according to the order set out by ORANGE:

FIRST: INFRINGEMENT.

Regarding this allegation, we refer to the provisions of the Third FD of this Re-
solution.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

61/99

SECOND: PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA AND RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TREATMENT
TREATMENT.

We refer to the previous FD.

THIRD: ALLEGATIONS ADUCTED.

1. PRIOR ALLEGATION. - EXISTENCE OF A WG ON DUPLICATION OF
SIM CARDS LEADED BY THE AEPD.

It alleges a bankruptcy in the legitimate trust deposited in the Agency by the
opening of this procedure.

It is not possible to appreciate the violation of the principle of legitimate expectations, collected
in article 3.1.e) of the LRJSP, a principle that, as the jurisprudence has reiterated,
dence - SSTS of December 28, 2012 (Rec. 273/2009), July 3, 2013
(Rec. 2511/2011), among many others- "it cannot be invoked to create, maintain
have or extend, in the field of public law, situations contrary to the
legal system", being the alleged plaintiff responsible for the infractions
tions appreciated in the initiation agreement, in accordance with article 28.1 of the LR-
JSP.

In relation to this principle, the Judgment of the National High Court (SAN),
of April 29, 2019, RJCA 2019\449, indicates: In accordance with what was declared by the an-
aforementioned judgment of July 6, 2012 (RJ 2012, 7760) the principle
of legitimate expectations means that "the public authority cannot adopt
measures that are contrary to the hope induced by the reasonable
stability in the decisions of the former, and based on which the particular
res have made certain decisions. (...) as stated in the sen-
judgment July 3, 2012 (RJ 2012, 11345) (appeal 6558/2010): "(...) The pro-
protection of legitimate expectations does not cover any type of psychological conviction
subjective logic in particular, being only susceptible to protection
that <confidence> on concrete aspects, which is based on signs or
external data produced by the Administration sufficiently conclusive
tes..." But from the very decisions of this Chamber, it must be concluded in a
important and relevant element to configure the legitimate trust, to save
ber, that the concrete action that is expected in that trust is in accordance
to the Legal System (last-cited judgment), that is, it is necessary that the
action of the Administration, with its conduct, induces the company "to
believe that the action that he develops is lawful and adequate in law"
(judgment of July 3, 2012, issued in appeal 6558/2010). In that
In the same sense, it has been declared that it cannot rely on legitimate trust.
tima "the mere expectation of an invariability of circumstances", as
declared in the judgment of March 22, 2012 (appeal 2998/2008), in the
that it is concluded that a behavior cannot be irreversibly maintained
which is considered unfair.

Precisely because it is a generalized and recurring problem,
it was considered opportune to carry out preliminary investigation actions.

In the Fourth Precedent we made reference to the three requirements of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

62/99

training aimed at ORANGE on different dates.

The SAN of the Contentious-administrative Chamber, sec 1ª, 10-17-07 (rec
180/06) justifies the convenience of the preliminary investigation actions
in relation to sanctioning procedures stating that: “It is about
that due to the seriousness and transcendence that the exercise of the power
sanctioning, since the legal status of someone who is subjected to an experiment
sanctioning tooth, for this single circumstance, can be negatively
mind affected, it is necessary that the decision to initiate the procedure
sanctioning party is founded and based on solid reasons that require such
initiation”.

That is, in order to allow the sanctioning body to know the facts
predictably offending parties, the concurrent circumstances and the people
intervening, it is allowed to carry out said actions or inquiries
prior assessments, insofar as they are necessary and timely to verify, to what extent
point, there is a rational basis to understand that the infringing act occurred, and im-
put it on a certain person.

It should be noted that article 53 of the LOPDGDD determines the "Scope of
research activity”:

 1. Those who develop the research activity may collect the information
precise instructions for the performance of their duties, carry out inspections
nes, require the exhibition or sending of the necessary documents and data,
examine them in the place where they are deposited or where they are
come out the treatments, get a copy of them, inspect the equipment
physical and logical and require the execution of treatments and programs or procedures
Treatment management and support procedures subject to investigation. (…)

Thus, the Agency can carry out the investigations it deems appropriate
(Article 67 of the LOPDGDD), after which you can decide to initiate an ex officio
penalty procedure (article 68 of the LOPDGDD). We are not using
using no pretext, as alluded to by -news in the press-, to justify our
action, but before the application of the general principles that govern the
act of public administrations, article 3.1. of the LRJSP: The Admi-
Public administrations objectively serve the general interests and act
in accordance with the principles of efficiency, hierarchy, decentralization,
concentration and coordination, with full submission to the Constitution, to the
Law and the Right.

ORANGE reasons that there are other corrective mechanisms, however, in-
we serve, the LOPDGDD regulates in Title VIII the "Procedures in case of
possible violation of data protection regulations” and specifically, the
Article 64.2 provides that, when the purpose of the procedure is to determine
mination of the possible existence of an infraction, will be initiated by
initiation agreement adopted on its own initiative or as a consequence of re-
claim (in the case analyzed, there have been two claims of
affected).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

63/99

Likewise, article 109.2 of the LRJSP provides regarding the Authorities
Independent Administrative Companies that will act, in the development of their activity
and for the fulfillment of its purposes, regardless of any interest
business or commercial.

In short, the participation of ORANGE in the WG does not modify the responsibility
ity now imputed to him. Therefore, due to the fact that there is participation
do in a GT whose objective is to deal with such a specific criminal activity
(“SIM Swapping”), does not prevent that once an infraction is verified, it must
be sanctioned

2. FIRST ARGUMENT. - INCORRECTION AND LACK OF ACCURACY IN THE
APPRECIATIONS ON DUPLICATE FRAUD.

The Agency has at no time stated that the SIM allows access to the
IMEI. We only refer to it for the purpose of clarifying that both one and the other
(IME and IMSI) have the status of personal data in accordance with the definition of the
article 4.1 of the RGPD.

In the opinion of ORANGE, no personal information has been accessed other than
the one provided by the supplanters. The Agency disagrees with this argument,
because, according to ORANGE itself in the document “Information and management
SIM cards”, the SIM card “stores all the information about the telephone line
the client's; is the element that supports the line and the telephone number and allows the
terminal access to the network.

According to LGTEL, electronic communications services are considered
tion of “services of general interest”. Let us not forget that through these services
connectivity is guaranteed to such important services as fixed telephony, mobile
or Internet access. (article 2.1 LGTEL)

Likewise, the obligatory respect for the protection of the personal data of the users
riors of this sector (article 41 LGTEL) also appears within the "obligations
of a public nature” applicable to the electronic communications sector (Title
III, chapter III).

41.1. The operators that exploit public networks of electronic communications
nicas or that provide electronic communications services available to the
public, including public communications networks that support
identification and data collection positives, they must adopt the measures
adequate technical and management measures to preserve safety on the farm.
tion of its network or in the provision of its services, in order to guarantee the
protection of personal data.

Considers that the Agency mixes concepts, insofar as the key refers to
taken by the bank (possession factor) does not have the status of personal data and does not
may be considered a breach of security or confidentiality.

In these strong customer authentication systems, in accordance with article 4.30
of Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November
November 2015 on payment services in the internal market and by which
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

64/99

Directives 2002/65/EC, 2009/110/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010 and Directive 2007/64/EC (hereinafter PSD2 Directive) is repealed,
authentication is based on the use of two or more categorized elements
as knowledge (something that only the user knows), possession (something that only
see the user) and inherence (something that is the user). These elements or factors
are independent of each other and, therefore, the violation of one does not compromise the
reliability of others.

The basis is very simple: the more elements you have to verify the
identity of the user, the more secure the transaction. Now, if those elements
are not applied properly, the operation fails.

Let us remember that, in these cases, the impersonator must first enter
the username and password or password in the application or on the provider's website
payment service or online banking.

Second, to complete the transaction or electronic management you want
perform, the impersonator will receive, normally through an SMS, an alphanumeric code
verification number on the mobile phone linked to that profile. This code has
a limited temporary validity and is of a single use, that is, it is only generated
for that specific transaction and for a limited time. Once you have entered the
verification code, the transaction would be made and completed.

It is assumed that only the user has the mobile device in his possession (it would be the
“something you have”), so when receiving the verification code on said mobile phone,
tion via SMS, your identity would be doubly authenticated.

Therefore, it would not be enough for the impersonators to be able to commit the fraud with co-
know the username and password with which the victim identifies, but it will be necessary
They must intercept said confirmation code.

Consequently, in order to carry out a transfer, transaction or purchase
consented, that is, to carry out the computer fraud, the cybercriminal de-
You will need to illegitimately access the verification codes associated with each of the
those operations sent by the bank through SMS and the way
The most common way to do this is by obtaining a duplicate of the card.
SIM.

In fact, ORANGE, in the document cataloged as “(…) (SIM Swapping)”
He says:

"1(…)."

Therefore, it is necessary to execute two completely different actions but
complementary to each other.

First of all, you have to obtain the access data for online banking or providers.
payment provider owned by the person to be defrauded, if we focus on the search
of wealth enrichment.

And, secondly, you will have to obtain the duplicate of the SIM card owned by
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

65/99

of the person to defraud in order to get hold of the confirmation SMS
that the client will receive in his mobile terminal as two-factor authentication. The
Authentication systems are, in accordance with European legislation, procedures that
allow the payment service provider to verify the identity of the user of
a payment service or the validity of the use of a certain payment instrument.
payment, including the use of the user's personalized security credentials.
river (article 4. 29 of the PSD2 Directive).

Well, in the last of these actions -obtaining the duplicate-, it is where
have focused on the facts that are the subject of this proceeding and not on those that occurred in the
first phase, which remain outside the responsibility imputed to ORAN-
GE.

He refers to a Guide on Digital Identity and to the responses of the EBA, which questioned
They guarantee the security of SMS to confirm banking operations. Nevertheless,
the security measures applied to online banking operations regarding
to the treatments carried out by financial entities, are not subject to analysis
in this file.

3. SECOND ARGUMENT. - UNFOUNDED GENERALIZATION OF CONSE-
NEGATIVE ACCOUNTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE ISSUANCE OF THE DUPLICATE.

ORANGE reiterates the allegations made previously, in respect of which
the AEPD reproduces what it already determined in the Resolution Proposal.

We already indicated that we upheld the allegation that the access
so to the duplicate does not provide direct access to the contacts stored in the
original SIM card, since, as it is a physical device, all
the data it contains and lost contacts on the card cannot be recovered
replaced SIM, unless they have been stored in environments associated with An-
droid or Apple, in which case the device must be synchronized with a certain
account to be able to restore them.

Regarding access to email, bank and other accounts.

In order to commit the criminal modality of SIM Swapping, in general,
It is necessary to execute two completely different but complementary actions.
you laugh with each other First of all, you have to obtain the access data for online banking.
line or payment provider owned by the person to be defrauded, if we focus on
the search for wealth enrichment. After that, the duplicate will have to be obtained.
ing of the SIM card owned by the person to be defrauded in order to
close with the confirmation SMS that the client will receive on his mobile terminal as
two-factor authentication.

When the criminal modality seeks patrimonial enrichment, it is necessary
take the two steps described above. However, when the
criminal modality seeks other purposes such as impersonating the person
sona on social networks, snatching private messages on social networks, becoming
with emails available on network servers, find out private data
of the person with the purpose of forcing him to execute certain actions... it is
that is, criminal actions constituting other criminal behaviors such as coercion
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

66/99

tions, crimes against privacy, crimes of threats, harassment, insults or slander,
the first action is not necessary, but with the simple obtaining of the duplicate
of the SIM card is enough. It is common for social networks or servers to
mail, in case of forgetting the password opt for fast mechanisms directed
two to obtaining a new password, such as sending a link
to the telephone line offered when the user signed up for it. With which,
when the offender has that telephone line with the duplicate of the card
SIM, you will receive in the terminal the possibility of creating a new password having free
thereby accessing social networks, instant messaging, web browsing,
cloud, emails... of that person, since the user is a relative data-
simple mind to find out.

In short, the rigor of the operator when it comes to monitoring who is the holder of
the SIM card or person authorized by him who requests the duplicate, should answer
adhere to strict requirements. It is not that the information referred to
it is not contained in the SIM card, but that, if in the process of issuing
tion of a duplicate SIM card does not adequately verify the identity of the
applicant, the operator would be facilitating identity theft.

The 2021 Report of the State Attorney General’s Office dedicated to “Internal Crime”
formatica” dedicates in its point 8 a mention to the fraudulent actions online:

“In this brief review of online fraudulent actions, it is necessary to
the mention of behaviors that affect the telecommunications sector
tions in their different variants, and closely related to them, although the
damage is generated in online banking, commonly known as fraud.
of SIM Swapping, which is being used with alarming frequency in
the last years. The technique consists of circumventing the security measures
of banking entities by accessing the alphanumeric codes of
confirmation, single use, generated on the occasion of transactions
electronic and that are ordinarily communicated to clients through
of SMS messages. To do this, criminals previously obtain a
duplicate or a new SIM card in the name of your victim, either requested
taking it from the corresponding operator, simulating its identity,
either using a more elaborate methodology, as in the assumption
object of judicial investigation in Zamora, in which it took advantage with
that purpose a mobile repair shop. once they have
SIM card at your disposal, criminals are guaranteed reception
on your own device of the confirmation code of the fraudulent transaction
dulent and, ultimately, the possibility of making it effective in its be-
benefit, preventing it from being known at that time by the injured party or
harmed. This form of fraud has generated in recent years
multiple police investigations and the initiation of legal proceedings
specialties in different territories such as A Coruña and Valencia. Its effectiveness and
ease with which criminals achieve their illicit purposes has determined
undermined the adoption by telephone operators of specific measures
prevention measures and strengthening of the guarantees for the issuance of
tas cards or their duplicates.”

ORANGE argues that its responsibility cannot extend beyond those

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

67/99

issues that fall under its scope of action and that there is no lack of diligence
agency, but rather performs these operations by requesting data from the person who supposedly
is its owner and even provide falsifications of public documents as a means
to overcome control measures.

Well, in the list of 20 cases of SIM duplicates reported/claimed
such as identity theft or fraudulent by customers, relating to the line
***TELEPHONE.4 made on 04/22/2019, the activation of the tar-
SIM card (...) that are included in the Security Policy (...).

At this time, and in response to the allegations made by ORANGE in re-
relationship with the list of the 20 cases collected we have to mean that as a result of
the two claims for identity fraud, which involved on the part of the respondent
responsible for processing the issuance of the customer's SIM card duplicate to a third party
zero (after which there have been serious economic damages to those affected) in-
investigate in depth the origin of the problem in order to find out if it was due to a
flaw in the privacy protection model. The focus is not on third parties
that they have surpassed the security policies, but on why they have surpassed them;
that is, it examines the condition, characteristics and adequacy of the policies cited
data protection regulations and the actions of the data controller
I lie about it. For this reason, the 20 cases related to duplicates of old SIM cards
nen to the case, showing the deficient application of the security policy.

Likewise, in the case of claimant one, the email address was changed
prior to the SIM request, without ORANGE being able to
accredit some evidence in their management systems about the controls that are
they went through for the change of the customer's email address.

In the case of claimant two, the documentation (...). He was not even asked
cited an additional control requirement (some question or some original documentation)
ginal) since it was provided (...).

In fact, the operator openly admits that the protocols were not complied with.
los, alluding to the deception suffered by the workers. The human factor, the obvious
possibility of making mistakes or being deceived, is one of the most important risks
always to be considered in relation to the determination of safety measures
security. The data controller must take into account human error as a
risk more than likely. Human errors are combated from the approach of
risks, analysis, planning, implementation and control of technical measures and
adequate and sufficient organizational

A criminal may attempt to deceive and cause human error, but it is the measures
adequate security measures who act as brakes.

As far as the criminals have failed to obtain personal data from
ORANGE, so there can be no question of non-compliance with protection measures.
tion, point out that access to the duplicate of a SIM card that makes identifiable to
its owner, responds to the definition of personal data in article 4.1) of the RGPD.

For all the above reasons, it has been considered that the procedures for the issuance of
SIM card applications required improvement in order to ensure
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

68/99

the security of customers' personal data effectively and in particular
cular, its custody, in order to prevent unauthorized access.

4. THIRD ARGUMENT. – SUITABILITY AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE MEASURES
PREVENTIVES IMPLEMENTED.

ORANGE reports the number of SIM changes made in 2019, (...), without
There has been no incident in the (...) of the cases. Consider, therefore,
that their protocols have proven to be effective.

However, this sanctioning procedure has had the objective of analyzing the
procedures followed to manage SIM change requests, certain
nating, where appropriate, the violation of the principle of data confidentiality
(in this case, the SIM card) treated by ORANGE as responsible
of treatment and if that violation has been the product of security measures
insufficient.

During 2019, ORANGE reports having provided (...) card duplicates
SIM.

As we have indicated before, the Agency has focused, not only on the
that third parties have overcome the security measures implemented by
ORANGE, but on why they have overcome them; that is, the condition is examined,
characteristics and adequacy of the measures cited to the regulations for the protection of
data and the action of the data controller in this regard.

Regarding the risk approach, it should be noted that the Agency does not intend to require
at no time a zero risk. But the GDPR itself indicates that the measures
must be adequate, according to the foreseeable risk. And the RGPD neither
does not make any reference to the percentages of materialization of the risk from the
which may or may not be considered negligible for the purposes of not considering it
infraction or lack of diligence.

It is considered that it is more than proven that the practice of this type of fraud,
like the one analyzed here, is a frequent practice and, therefore, the operators
must have appropriate measures to ensure that they do not unduly facilitate
mind a SIM card to someone who is not the legitimate owner. Hence, from the analysis of
documentation, it is concluded that the measures adopted have not been adequate.
give for this purpose.

ORANGE alleges a breach of the strict liability principle in the
sanctioning vetoed by our legal system.

In this regard, this Agency has already informed in the Background of the Start-up Agreement and
in the Resolution Proposal, that in addition to the two claims, the SGID included
investigated the "fraudulent practices based on the generation of duplicate credit cards"
SIM cards without the consent of their legitimate owners in order to access information
confidential training for criminal purposes (known as “SIM Swapping”)” as
consequence of "news appearing in the media", as
it follows from the internal note of the director that appears in the file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

69/99

Therefore, the origin of the problem has been thoroughly investigated in order to ascertain
guar if there could be a flaw in the privacy protection model.

It is not true, as ORANGE pretends to show, that the cir-
circumstances -exclusively- of two specific cases, since, aside from these
complaints, has been directed to analyze whether the technical and organizational measures
adopted by ORANGE for the issuance of duplicate SIM cards to holders
telephone lines were appropriate to ensure the mitigation of
the possible risks to the fundamental rights and freedoms of the holders of
the lines.

The circumstances of the two cases in which a claim has been filed with
the AEPD have revealed the insufficiency of security measures
adopted by ORANGE, which also recognizes that such measures have been insufficient
patients in a total of (...) cases during the year 2019.

In addition, it must be taken into account that the seriousness of the proven facts is reflected
ma in the social alarm generated by the realization of these fraudulent practices,
without determining the number of claims filed.

ORANGE alleges that the overcoming of security measures by a third party does not
can determine by itself that they are not adequate or sufficient. Y
cites file E/05168/2021, in which a claim was filed after verifying
It should be noted that, despite having access to personal data by a third party,
unauthorized zero, a sufficient and appropriate level of diligence had been
do, even if the security measures implemented had been overcome.

In said file, the circumstances were different. It was a third party who is-
was making a series of queries and requests about the owner's line, due to
because it had the personal information of the claimant because of the link that
had united them. In the opinion of this Agency, the information that
can be obtained due to a link with the information that can be obtained by a ci-
berdelinquent For its part, the operator not only implemented measures to prevent
such situations occur in general, but also for the specific case. Y,
Lastly, that claim was filed in application of the principle of presumption of
innocence, which prevents imputing an administrative infraction when no
had evidence or indications from which the existence of an infraction is derived. The experience
tooth that is now resolved is different, in which -in addition to the two claims-
nes-, a series of cases reported by ORANGE itself have been verified, in
which has materialized access to (...) duplicate SIM cards in an in-
due, as a consequence of the lack of appropriate security measures
to avoid it.

ORANGE also cites file E/00536/2016 in which the identity is supplanted.
ability to modify the claimant's data on the ORANGE intranet. And adds
that the Agency considered that “the misuse or improper use through impersonation
of identity by a third party is not attributable to Orange, since it complied with
appropriate security measures" and that "despite the fact that there was illegal access,
The Agency concludes that: “No evidence has been accredited that would allow

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

70/99

so attribute to Orange a violation of the regulations on the protection of
data, to the extent that it acted diligently” and, consequently, files the
process".

In this file, a third party had improperly accessed the services
offered by ORANGE through the website and had made a series of
fraudulent orders of mobile terminals. Therefore, its purpose was to analyze
if the measures available to ORANGE to identify the person who carried out
The request from the terminals had been enough to understand that there was action.
acted with reasonable diligence. In this sense, it was considered that ORANGE used
a reasonable diligence since -precisely-, it adopted the necessary measures
to identify the person who made the request for the terminals (when requesting
username and password for the procedure) and that, as soon as he became aware of the claim,
tion, canceled the requested orders.

However, we are facing different assumptions, given that in file E/
00536/2016, only fraud takes the form of placing fraudulent orders.
slow mobile terminals, while in this procedure it is about facilitating
take a duplicate of a SIM card (personal data) to someone who is not its owner, which
leads, as has been repeatedly explained, to a loss of control of the
personal information.

It also cites file E/2723/2020, in which it states that it is considered that
ORANGE took the appropriate measures. However, the resolution of the aforementioned ex-
The petition at no time affirms that the measures adopted by ORANGE were
they were adequate. What it states is that: “the lack of rational evidence has been confirmed
them of the existence of an infraction (...), not proceeding, consequently, the
opening of a sanctioning procedure”. And this under the principle of presumption
innocence, according to which an administrative infraction cannot be imputed
when no evidence or indications have been obtained from which the existence
possession of an offence. The fact of stating that no evidence has been found
of infringement by ORANGE is very different from asserting that the measures
adopted by ORANGE were adequate, which is not the case in this file.

ORANGE also mentions the file E/06963/2020. In this, the Agency does not
admits to process the claim on claim of payment of invoices of telephone lines
contracted telephone companies using your personal data without consent, therefore
claim that the claim in question had been addressed, by blocking ORANGE the
contracted services and cancel the claimed debt.

Nor is it stated in that file that the measures available to ORANGE
were suitable. In fact, the aforementioned measures are not even analyzed.

In any case, the aforementioned resolution also provides "All this without prejudice to
that the Agency, applying the investigative and corrective powers that it os-
tenta, can carry out subsequent actions related to data processing
referred to in the complaint. This is, without prejudice to which, this Agency may in-
Find out about the procedure followed in general for this type of event. By
Therefore, even if in that specific case the claim had been inadmissible in
issue, this does not prevent the Agency from examining the security measures

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

71/99

that ORANGE has in order to prevent a third party from contracting telephone lines.
phone in your name without your consent.

For its part, ORANGE also mentions file E/05272/2018, in which
various workers spread images of clients suspected of having
brought objects via WhatsApp and, there being no indication that the entity had in-
fulfilled its obligations in compliance with the principles of integrity and confidentiality.
entiality, proceeded to agree on the filing of the proceedings.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that the factual assumption is considerable-
mind different from the one analyzed in this sanctioning procedure. And that the fact
that in said file no reasonable indications of the existence
ence of a security breach in the treatment carried out by the person in charge of
treatment with respect to the data of its clients, this does not prevent that in this process
sanctioning procedure it had been proven that ORANGE has facilitated access
to fraudulently requested SIM card duplicates, as a consequence
consequence of having security measures that are not adequate for such
finish.

ORANGE also mentions file E/07129/2014, in which the AEPD archived
The procedure is based on the fact that it is not possible to determine the identity of the in-
offender, the principle of presumption of innocence prevents the imputation of an administrative
nistrativa when the existence of proof of identity has not been obtained and verified.
accrediting charge of the facts that motivate the imputation.

In this regard, it should be noted that, in said file, a claim is made for the
of a purchase on a website made, on your behalf, without the consent of the
claimant. First, the factual assumption is considerably different from the
analyzed now. And regarding the principle of presumption of innocence, we reiterate
that this principle prevents imputing an administrative infraction when there had not been
have obtained evidence or indications from which the existence of an infringement is derived,
question is that if it concurs in the analyzed case.

ORANGE cites file E/08205/2019, in which there was a security breach
security, in which names, surnames and other personal data of clients were leaked.
tes, reaching more than 1,300,000 affected. The Agency considered that the entity
defendant had the necessary technical and organizational measures to
address a breach such as the one that occurred and that it adopted the necessary additional measures.
ries to mitigate the impact and prevent the event from happening again in the future.

It should be noted that this assumption was about a hacker who had obtained
the database of users registered on a website and marketed through
see the deep web. And that during the investigation carried out, it was found that the
security measures that the data controller had were adequate
given to deal with an incident of these characteristics and that he had reacted in a
diligently in order to notify, communicate and minimize the impact and implement
take appropriate reasonable measures to prevent the recurrence of an incident in the future.
similar tooth. However, in addition to the assumption of fact being considerably
different from the assumption analyzed here, the fact that in said file it is
would have appreciated that the person responsible for treatment had the measures of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

72/99

appropriate security, this does not prevent this sanctioning procedure from
verified that ORANGE facilitated access to duplicate SIM cards, without
ensure the identity of their holders.

Lastly, ORANGE mentions file E/05441/2018, in which the company
claimed suffers a security breach, where the attacker gains access
unauthorized way to a database of the claimed. The Agency indicates that the
gap has violated article 32 of the RGPD. However, it is noted that the claim
had implemented security measures that were, in principle, adequate
you give. Thus, it is considered that the actions of the respondent as responsible for the treatment
processing is in accordance with data protection regulations, archiving, obtaining
mind, the performances.

In this case, the attacker gained unauthorized access to a
claimant database. However, it was found that the defendant "had
implemented security measures that, in principle, were adequate to
ensure that personal data is not accessible by third parties and, as
It is stated in the facts, as soon as the attack was detected and confirmed by the
a series of additional security measures were immediately adopted.
in order to minimize the risks and extreme the difficulties for the acces-
so and information extraction”. As stated above, in addition to
that the assumption of fact is considerably different from the assumption of analytic fraud.
lyzed, the fact that in said file it had been appreciated that the responsible
The treatment provider had the appropriate security measures for the case
concrete, it does not prevent that in this procedure it has been verified that ORANGE
had access routes to obtain duplicates (vending kiosks)
res or telephone activations) that favored identity theft.

ORANGE argues that the fact of allowing in certain si-
situations the use of non-face-to-face channels with no lack of diligence, as long as
so that any route is susceptible to being the object of fraud attempts.

Given this, we must insist that the safety of a procedure is, like that of
a chain, that of its weakest link, and in the case of establishing safety measures
strict security measures in a channel, if equivalent measures are not also established in
the rest of the channels, the global security is being reduced to that of the security channel.
minor security.

Regarding the freedom of managers to comply with security measures and
punctual non-compliance in these isolated cases, the imposition of penalties
for an amount of 300'00 euros, does not exempt the operator from its obligations with the
treatment managers.

From ORANGE's statements the conclusion seems to be drawn that it has no
no power of action to avoid these frauds or impersonations, since they attribute
All responsibility lies with third parties involved (in charge or supplanted-
beef). We do not agree with this conviction.

The concepts of controller and processor are not formal, but
functional and must attend to the specific case. The data controller is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

73/99

from the moment you decide the purposes and means of treatment, not losing
such a condition the fact of leaving a certain margin of action to the person in charge of the traffic-
I lie. This is unquestionably expressed in CEPD Guidelines 07/2020 -the
translation is ours-:

“A data controller is the one who determines the purposes and
the means of treatment, that is, the why and how of the treatment.
I lie. The data controller must decide on both
purposes and means. However, some more practical aspects
of implementation ("non-essential media") can be left in
hands of the treatment manager. It is not necessary that the res-
responsible actually has access to the data being processed
to qualify as responsible.

Likewise, in point 6 it is said (the translation is ours):

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with
the principles established in article 5, paragraph 1, of the RGPD; Y
it's

The data controller must be able to demonstrate compliance
observance of the principles established in article 5, paragraph 1, of the
GDPR

Also in point 8 they establish:

The principle of liability has been further developed
in article 24, which establishes that the controller of the traffic-
will apply the appropriate technical and organizational measures to
guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is carried out in accordance
mited with the RGPD. These measures will be reviewed and updated in
necessary case. (…)

ORANGE must assess the (real) possibility of such a situation occurring and it is its
obligation to implement measures to avoid this type of situation or, at least, the
quickly detect. Consider all these supposed deviations from the proto-
Colos established by ORANGE as mere specific facts before which no
additional actions are carried out to avoid them, it supposes not acting with due
diligence and that is why it is considered that ORANGE has violated the obligation
guarantee the confidentiality of personal data in the event here
analyzed, as a consequence of lacking, precisely, the security measures
suitable for this purpose.

Nor has this Agency required the "full monitoring of employees", as
as stated by ORANGE. It simply requires that some measures be implemented
of security according to the risk that exists that the agents do not comply with the
measures provided by ORANGE, among others.

ORANGE states that (…). However, the mere fact (...) to verify the activity
effective protection of users and adopt new measures, it cannot be considered
as a sufficient and adequate measure for the aforementioned purposes. Lastly, you have to
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

74/99

Remember that this is not the only security measure that is analyzed or the only one that
could be used to ensure the confidentiality of personal data in
question.

Therefore, in addition to the security measures implemented after the
commission of the Proven Facts and that are valued positively by the Agency
cia, the infringement is considered proven. For all of the above, the infringement
imputed is the one provided for in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Lastly, ORANGE indicates that “the nature of the fundamental right of the right to
data protection does not eliminate the need to examine the diligence displayed
given by ORANGE, nor the consideration of the tiny percentage of incidents that
have occurred in the SIM card duplication processes. All the activity of
the AEPD is about a fundamental right, so that argument is not
valid to support the proposed sanction.

In this regard, make several nuances.

In the first place, the AEPD also exercises functions related to the rights
digital rights (articles 89 to 94 of the LOPDGDD).

Secondly, the exercise of the sanctioning power has been carried out
prior administrative procedure, accompanied by due guarantees, and has
led to determine the Facts, prove guilt and graduate the administrative response
tive. This graduation has not been made apart from the concurrent circumstances,
but as a manifestation and requirement of the principle of transparency (article
3.1.c) LRJSP) and the right to good administration (article 41 of the Charter of
Fundamental Rights of the EU), the facts have been treated impartially
and equitably, motivating the final decision at all times.

Therefore, the Agency has limited itself to analyzing the circumstances of the case
decree in order to identify the existence of indications or evidence (or not) of infringement
tion in its field of competence. And as a consequence, it has considered proven
that ORANGE has violated one of the principles relating to processing (article
5.1.f) GDPR).

 5. FOURTH ARGUMENT. – DILIGENT PERFORMANCE BY ORANGE.

He invokes a total defenselessness, because despite the fact that he has managed to prove the
compliance with his duty of diligence and being recognized, is subject to a sanction
tion for an unspecified reason.

The Agency has scrupulously respected the procedure, allowing ORAN-
GE the exercise of its right to effective protection, since in this proceeding
The principles of bilaterality, contradiction and equality of rights have been respected.
weapons as required by the reiterated doctrine of the Constitutional Court on the
right to effective judicial protection that (Valga for all the Judgment 220/2002 of
25 Nov. 2002, Rec. 5497/1999) “3. This Court has repeatedly stated
that the right to effective judicial protection without defenselessness, which is recognized in
the art. 24.1 CE, guarantees the right to access the process and legal resources-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

75/99

established in conditions of being able to be heard and exercise the defense of the
legitimate rights and interests in a procedure in which the principles of
principles of bilaterality, contradiction and equality of procedural weapons, (...)
(SSTC 167/1992, of 26 Oct.; 103/1993, of 22 Mar.; 316/1993, of 25
Oct.; 317/1993, of Oct. 25; 334/1993, of Nov. 15; 108/1994, of Apr. 11; 186/1997,
from Nov 10; 153/2001, of July 2; 158/2001, of July 2).

The STC 86/1997, of 22 Apr., FJ 1, says: "the defenselessness must be material, and not
merely formal, which implies that this formal defect has been detrimental
real and effective price for the defendant in his possibilities of defense (STC
43/1989, 101/1990, 6/1992 and 105/1995, among others)”; in this sense, ORANGE,
at all times he has had knowledge of the facts imputed to him, the possible
ble infractions of which the facts are constitutive, has been able to allege as to
his law has deemed it appropriate and has been able to request the evidence and provide the
documents that he has considered in his defense throughout the investigation of the case.
sanctioning procedure and, which have been analyzed and taken into consideration
as reflected in the Motion for a Resolution against which he has also presented-
the appropriate allegations that are being analyzed in this Resolution
tion, therefore, we reject the alleged allegation.

Likewise, far from ORANGE's claim that the paragraphs transcribed in the
Motion for a Resolution reveals an unsolvable contradiction,
certify that the Agency has scrupulously respected the principles of the procedure
sanctioning procedure and more specifically the right to defense of ORANGE.

Indeed, in sanctioning matters the principle of culpability (STC
15/1999, of July 4; 76/1990, of April 26; and 246/1991, of December 19), which
which means that there must be some kind of fraud or guilt. As the STS says
of January 23, 1998, "...we can speak of a decided line of jurisprudence
that rejects in the sanctioning scope of the Administration the objective responsibility
tive, requiring the concurrence of fraud or negligence, in line with the interpretation of
the STC 76/1990, of April 26, when pointing out that the principle of guilt can include
refer to the principles of legality and prohibition of excess (article 25 of the
Constitution) or the requirements inherent to the rule of law".

Lack of diligence in implementing security measures at source
adequate constitutes the element of culpability.

Let us remember that clients -individuals or legal entities- sign contracts
fords with ORANGE for the provision of certain services that are submitted
to some privacy clauses contained in the Privacy Annex in accordance with
puts clause 13.1 of the "General Conditions of ORANGE Services".

For example, clause 8 of the current Privacy Policy says:

“8. Security measures

Information security is one of our firm commitments and
in compliance with current legislation ORANGE will process the data of the
User at all times in an absolutely confidential manner and keep

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

76/99

complying with the mandatory duty of secrecy with respect to them, adopting the
effect the security measures of a technical and organizational nature necessary
that guarantee the security of your data and avoid its alteration, loss,
damage, treatment or unauthorized access, taking into account the state of the
technology, the nature of the stored data and the risks to which it is
so exposed.”

Therefore, just as customers are required to comply with the obligations
tions stipulated in the contracts signed with the operator, from this, the
compliance with the obligations that in terms of security and confidentiality
compete.

In terms of due diligence, we acknowledge that ORANGE has acted subsequently
mind diligently when minimizing the impact to those potentially affected
implementing new security measures to prevent the recurrence of incidents
thousands in the future.

Certainly, the principle of responsibility established in article 28 of the LRJSP,
provides that: "They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an infraction
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recommends them
know capacity to act, affected groups, unions and entities without
legal personality and independent or autonomous estates, which result
responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence.”

However, the mode of attribution of liability to legal persons is not
corresponds to the willful or reckless forms of guilt that are im-
putable to human behavior. So, in the case of offenses committed
by legal persons, although the element of culpability must be present.
this is necessarily applied differently from the way it is applied to
physical persons.

According to STC 246/1991 "(...) this different construction of the imputability of the
authorship of the infringement of the legal person arises from the very nature of fiction
law to which these subjects respond. The volitional element is lacking in them.
strict compliance, but not the ability to break the rules to which they are subject.

Capacity for infringement and, therefore, direct blame that derives from the good ju-
protected by the rule that is violated and the need for such protection
is really effective and for the risk that, consequently, the person must assume
that is subject to compliance with said rule" (in this sense STS of
November 24, 2011, Rec 258/2009).

To the above must be added, following the judgment of January 23, 1998, par-
cially transcribed in the SSTS of October 9, 2009, Rec 5285/2005, and of 23
of October 2010, Rec 1067/2006, that "although the culpability of the conduct
must also be tested, must be considered in order to assume the
corresponding charge, which ordinarily the volitional and cognitive elements
necessary to appreciate it are part of the typical behavior tested, and that
its exclusion requires proof of the absence of such elements, or in its ver-
normative intent, that the diligence that was required by the person who claims
its non-existence; not enough, in short, to exculpate behavior
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

77/99

typically unlawful the invocation of the absence of fault".

Consequently, the lack of guilt is dismissed. ultimate responsibility
on the treatment continues to be attributed to the person in charge, who is the one who determines
the existence of the treatment and its purpose. Let us remember that, in general
The operators treat the data of their clients under the provisions of the article
6.1 b) of the RGPD, as it is considered a necessary treatment for the execution of
a contract to which the interested party is a party (…).

In this sense, ORANGE has a network of commercials, points of sale and
distributors approved through a distribution contract to offer the
ORANGE services. Among these services offered from its points of sale,
is the realization of duplicates of SIM cards corresponding to a line of
mobile telephony.

Let us remember that in the case of the claimant one, it was modified in the file of
customer the contact email that was previously stated (...). Subsequently, it was observed
had the issuance of a duplicate SIM card, even having reported (...)
in any procedure with the operator. And finally, there is the telephone activation
SIM card without sending a (...) to any of the lines associated with the contract
of the complaining party, (...).

As for the issuance of duplicate is not enough to carry out operations
bank accounts on behalf of the holders, certainly, to complete the scam, it is necessary to
It is necessary for a third party to “impersonate the identity” of the owner of the data before the entity
financial. What entails a priori, a treatment outside the principle of legality
because a third party is treating data, since it has access to them, without any legal basis.
guna, in addition to the violation of other principles such as confidentiality.

For this reason, this is a process in which the diligence provided by the operations
doras is essential to avoid this type of scams and violations of the RGPD.
Diligence that translates into the establishment of adequate measures to guarantee
Ensure that data processing is in accordance with the RGPD.

In short, the violation of the imputed administrative infraction responds to a
precept included within "Principles related to treatment" that requires security
adequate authority in the processing of personal data, security that has not been
guaranteed according to the Proven Facts. And this is so, because it has facilitated
do duplicate SIM cards to third parties other than the legitimate owners
of mobile lines, after overcoming by these of the existing security policy
tent, which shows a breach of the principle of confidentiality.

Illegality is the quality that has a behavior previously typical of vulnerability.
generate the legal system and the purposes it pursues. In this way, to be
sanctionable it is not enough that the conduct fits the description
had in the type, but with it the objectives pursued are being violated
by the law. In this regard, the conduct will be unlawful if the legal interest is damaged.
protected by the precept violated.

In this case, the legislation on the protection of personal data pursues the fi-
purpose that those responsible and in charge of the data carry out a treatment
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

78/99

of these having security measures that prevent illicit use or fraud.
slow of them. And this juridical right has been damaged in the objective facts.
of this procedure.

According to STC 246/1991 "(...) this different construction of the imputability of the autho-
The theory of the infringement of the legal person arises from the very nature of legal fiction.
ridiculous to which these subjects respond. The volitional element is lacking in them.
do strict, but not the ability to break the rules to which they are subjected.

Capacity for infringement and, therefore, direct blame that derives from the good ju-
protected by the rule that is violated and the need for such protection
is really effective and for the risk that, consequently, the person must assume
that is subject to compliance with said rule" (in this sense STS of
November 24, 2011, Rec 258/2009).

For these reasons, the claim is dismissed.

6. FIFTH ARGUMENT. – LACK OF PROPORTIONALITY OF THE PENALTY
PROPOSAL.

Regarding the breach of the principle of proportionality, the RGPD provides for ex-
specifically the possibility of graduation, through the provision of fines subject to
modulation, in response to a series of circumstances of each individual case.
dual. Although, this aspect will be analyzed in the Seventh FD.

ORANGE argues that the imposition of a fine for dissuasive purposes is not
justified in the present case, since it was not his will or intention
that these situations occur.

Of course, we do not doubt that the operator has the intention or will in
that these situations occur. But he confuses intentionality with negligence.
agency, this second being the determinant of the commission of the infraction.

The truth is that there has been an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD that
should be sanctioned with a fine in view of the serious individual circumstances
concurrent duals. Said fine must meet the characteristics imposed by the
article 83.1 of the RGPD, that is, it must be individualized and effective, proportionate
and deterrent.

The fine must be dissuasive, so that the offending conduct is not punished.
tere in the future.

Let us remember that, regarding the imposition of a warning, reprimand, or
the adoption of corrective measures in accordance with article 58 of the RGPD, a fine
deterrent is one that has a genuine deterrent effect. In this regard, the
Judgment of the CJEU, of June 13, 2013, Versalis Spa/Commission, C-511/11,
ECLI:EU:C:2013:386, says:

“94. Regarding, firstly, the reference to the Showa judgment
Denko v Commission, cited above, it should be noted that Versalis interprets it
incorrectly. In fact, the Court of Justice, when pointing out in the paragraph

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

79/99

do 23 of said sentence that the dissuasive factor is valued taking into account
consideration a multitude of elements and not just the particular situation
of the company in question, he was referring to points 53 to 55 of the
conclusions presented in that matter by Advocate General Geelhoed,
he had pointed out, in essence, that the multiplier coefficient of characters
dissuasive ter may have as its object not only a "general deterrence", but
defined as an action to discourage all companies, in general,
that they commit the offense in question, but also a «deterrent»
specific action', consisting of dissuading the specific defendant from
don't break the rules again in the future. Therefore, the Court of
Justice only confirmed, in that sentence, that the Commission was not obligated
bound to limit its assessment to factors related solely to the following
particular situation of the company in question.”

“102. According to settled jurisprudence, the objective of the multiplier factor
suasory and the consideration, in this context, of the size and the re-
global courses of the company in question lies in the desired impact
on the aforementioned company, since the sanction should not be insignificant, it is
especially in relation to the financial capacity of the company (in
this sense, see, in particular, the judgment of June 17, 2010,
Lafarge v Commission, C-413/08 P, ECR p. I-5361, section 104, and the car of 7
February 2012, Total and Elf Aquitaine v Commission, C-421/11 P, para.
82).”

Furthermore, article 29.2 of the LRJSP also configures the function
discouraging or dissuasive of the fines by indicating that “The establishment of sanctions
pecuniary penalties shall provide that the commission of typified infractions shall not
is more beneficial to the offender than compliance with the rules violated.
you give".

The fine must generate a dissuasive effect regarding non-compliance and violation
tion of data protection regulations and never be more beneficial for
the offender than compliance with the rule violated.

On the other hand, ORANGE asserts that it must be considered to determine the amount
of the fine and its proportionality that has not obtained benefit, but has suffered
damage for the commission of the crime.

In addition to the fact that the production of possible damage to the person responsible for the treatment
protection is not considered a mitigating factor by protection regulations
of data and this is observed from the simple reading of articles 83.2 of the RGPD and 76.2
of the LOPDGDD, we remind again that the purpose of this procedure is
focuses on the absence of security guarantees that has allowed unauthorized access
authorized or illicit of third parties to the personal data of the interested parties.

The possible damages that it indicates that it suffers -attacks on its systems and assets- are
caused by its own negligence, since, if it had had measures
adequate security measures, such access by third parties would not have occurred and the crime
later would not have materialized.

Likewise, in his allegations he establishes as damages the fact of having had to carry out “in-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

80/99

internal investigations, make compensation to the claimants and reevaluate pro-
procedures and protocols. All those damages related to internal investigations
and reassessment of procedures and protocols do not cease to be its own obligations
of the proactive responsibility that it imposes from risk management, among others
many duties, the maintenance, updating and control and auditing of the policies
data protection cases in an organization.

The compensations to the claimants also derive from the assignment of the damages
personal rights of those affected to third parties -enabling the subsequent commission of
crimes- which constitutes a fault also attributable to ORANGE, as a result of
the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Likewise, the administrative fine will be effective because it will lead the company to
apply the technical and organizational measures that guarantee a degree of security
corresponding to the categorization of the type of transaction.

It is also proportional to the violation identified, in particular its seriousness,
the risks incurred and the financial situation of the company.

Likewise, the participation of ORANGE in the GT does not modify the responsibility that
now he is charged once the infraction is verified.

QUARTER. - PRINCIPLES RELATED TO TREATMENT.

It refers to the compensation received by the affected people from ORAN-
GE. In this regard, there is a communication addressed to claimant one, of
dated January 20, 2020, with the following tenor:

(...).

The measure adopted is considered to have the consideration of minimum essential
ble after the affected person lost the phone line.

He refers to the discarding of what he qualifies as "hypothetical assumptions" or "lucubrations" of
the Agency, not reported by any claimant: access to applications, use of re-
social des, etc. Well, these facts have not been considered as circumstances
individuals in the infringement charged to ORANGE, but rather offer a perspective
tive of possible risks derived from the treatment in question. risk management
It supposes an exercise of reflection that must be carried out before carrying out an activity.
treatment of personal data. Its objective is to identify and be able to anticipate
take into account the possible adverse effects, or unforeseen, that the treatment could have
about stakeholders. It must allow the person in charge to make the decisions and actions
necessary to ensure that the treatment meets the requirements of the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD, guaranteeing and being able to demonstrate the protection of the rights of the
interested.

Nor does the Agency confuse individual access to the SIM card with access to the
mobile terminal nor is it demanding any administrative responsibility in this regard.

Regarding the banking operations carried out and the security of the transactions
tions carried out by financial entities, it should be noted that these entities
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

81/99

are responsible for the treatment of their clients' data, and they are responsible for identi-
obligations than those indicated so far for the operators referred to the fulfillment
compliance with the RGPD and the LOPDGDD, and also those derived from the Royal Decree-law
19/2018, of November 23, on payment services and other urgent measures in matters
financial laugh.

It also invokes article 28.10 of the RGPD, well, from the beginning it must des-
letter that this precept allows the attribution of sanctioning responsibility to the
treatment manager. In the first place, because it clarifies that the provisions of the same
as it is “without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84” (sanctioning regime
dor GDPR). And, above all, because the legal consequence provided for in article 28.10
It is not the sanctioning one, but the one of considering the person in charge as responsible for the treatment.
I lie. The conclusion is logical, since, if the former violates the Regulations “by de-
terminate the means and purposes of the treatment”, should be considered as responsible.

That is not what has happened in this file. In fact, it has not been proven
that actions have been carried out that entailed a "determination of the purposes and
means”, but, according to ORANGE itself, they would have failed to comply with any of the
instructions issued by it in the customer identification processes.

Consequently, in no case is it appropriate to invoke article 28.10 RGPD for a
presumed attribution of responsibility to those in charge, which, in addition, implies the
exoneration of the controller (ORANGE as has been proven
in this file).

ORANGE cannot avoid the responsibility that corresponds to the security
treatment, hiding behind the breaches of those involved in the management
tion of duplicate requests.

Regarding the two claims, we have previously clarified that this procedure
procedure encompasses a broader investigation.

Regarding the fact that it has not provided data to third parties, the Security Office
of the Internet user tells us that the “SIM card duplication or SIM card exchange -
SIM Swapping-” “is based on the duplication of our SIM card, and for this, the at-
cantes need some personal information, such as name and surname, DNI, date of
birth, the last 4 digits of our bank account, etc., which have been able to obtain
have by other means, such as phishing or buying from fraudulent online stores.
With this data, the attackers request a duplicate of our SIM, supplanting
our identity with the above data before the operator. Meanwhile, the only thing
What we notice is that our device runs out of mobile coverage, and when we connect
we have a Wi-Fi network, we will begin to receive notifications of movements made
two from our mobile without our consent, such as bank transfers or
online shopping, among others.

An obligation of result is not required, but of activity, but in order to evaluate said
tivity and implementation of measures and their consideration as "adequate" is inevitable.
It is possible to analyze the methods used by the third party to illicitly access the process
of duplication, the safeguards implemented by ORANGE and inevitably, the re-
released.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

82/99

Regarding the special relevance of the SIM card, we refer to the modern graduation
tivated in the Seventh FD.

Lastly, regarding the deployment of security measures, there is no doubt that
ORANGE has reviewed the protocols to prevent identity theft in
these processes; has transferred the information to those involved in the processing; has in-
introduced improvements after knowing certain vulnerabilities; including penalties
for its non-compliance. However, we do not share the fact that it has taken
carry out an appropriate and adequate deployment of security measures, in the terms
of article 32 of the RGPD.

It is not enough to have a security policy, but to adapt it to mitigate the
risks. The continuous advancement of technology and the evolution of treatments propitiate
cyan the continuous appearance of new risks that must be managed.

The risk approach and the flexible risk model imposed by the RGPD -based on
of the double configuration of security as a principle relating to the treatment and
an obligation for the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment - does not impose in any
In any case, the infallibility of the measures, but their constant adaptation to a risk,
that, as in the case examined is true, probable and not negligible, high and with
a very significant impact on the rights and freedoms of citizens.

FIFTH. - SAFETY OF TREATMENT.

An infringement of article 32 of the RGPD is not imputed.

SIXTH. - GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPOSITION OF THE ADMI-
NISTRATIVE.

Object of analysis in the Seventh FD of this Resolution.

SIXTH: Principles relating to treatment.

Considering the right to the protection of personal data as the right
natural persons to have their own data, it is necessary to determine the
principles that make it up.

In this sense, article 5 RGPD, referring to the "Principles related to treatment"
has:
1. The personal data will be:

a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawful
trust, loyalty and transparency»);
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed further.
riorly in a manner incompatible with said purposes; (...);
c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed ("data minimization");
d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; All reasonable steps will be taken
entitled to delete or rectify without delay the personal data that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

83/99

are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);
e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data;
(…)
f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility").
The principle of data security requires the application of technical or organizational measures.
appropriate organizational measures in the processing of personal data to protect said
data against access, use, modification, dissemination, loss, destruction or accidental damage
dental, unauthorized or illegal. In this sense, security measures are key to
when guaranteeing the fundamental right to data protection. It is not possible the
existence of the fundamental right to data protection if it is not possible to guarantee
the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our data.

In line with these provisions, recital 75 of the RGPD establishes:
serious and probable risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
variable ity, may be due to the processing of data that could cause damage
and physical, material or immaterial damages, particularly in cases in which the
treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, identity theft or
fraud, financial loss, reputational damage, loss of confidentiality of
data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization or
any other significant economic or social damage; in the cases in which
sees the interested parties of their rights and freedoms or prevents them from exercising control over
about your personal data; in cases in which the personal data processed reveals
ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religion or philosophical beliefs,
militancy in trade unions and the processing of genetic data, data related to health or
data on sexual life, or convictions and criminal offenses or security measures
related ity; in cases in which personal aspects are evaluated, in particular
the analysis or prediction of aspects related to performance at work, situation
financial, health, personal preferences or interests, reliability or behavior,
situation or movements, in order to create or use personal profiles; In the cases
in which the personal data of vulnerable persons, in particular children, are processed; either
in cases where the processing involves a large amount of personal data
and affect a large number of stakeholders.
Likewise, recital 83 of the RGPD establishes: In order to maintain the security and
avoid that the treatment violates the provisions of this Regulation, the controller
responsible or the person in charge must evaluate the risks inherent to the treatment and apply mea-
given to mitigate them, such as encryption. These measures must guarantee a level of security
adequate security, including confidentiality, taking into account the state of the tech-
uniqueness and the cost of its application with respect to the risks and the nature of the data
personal to be protected. When assessing the risk in relation to the safety of
the data, the risks that derive from the treatment of the data must be taken into account.
personal data, such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

84/99

or unauthorized access to said data, which is particularly likely to cause damage
and physical, material or immaterial damages.

We must attend to the unique circumstances of the two claims presented.
through which it can be verified that, from the moment in which the loss
impersonating sona performs the SIM replacement, the victim's phone remains
without service, passing control of the line to the impersonators. In consequence
Consequently, their powers of disposal and control over their personal data are affected.
them, which constitute part of the content of the fundamental right to the protection of
data as indicated by the Constitutional Court in Judgment 292/2000, of 30
November 2000 (FJ 7). So, by getting a duplicate of the card
SIM, it is possible under certain circumstances, the access to the contacts or to the
applications and services that have as key recovery procedure the
sending an SMS with a code to be able to modify the passwords. Definitely,
may supplant the identity of those affected, being able to access and control, by
example: email accounts; bank accounts; apps like
WhatsApp; social networks, such as Facebook or Twitter, and much more. in short
accounts, once the password has been modified by the impersonators, they lose
control of your accounts, applications and services, which is a great threat.
Hence, the security and confidentiality of personal data are considered
essential to prevent data subjects from suffering negative effects.
In line with these provisions, recital 39 RGPD provides: All treatment
The processing of personal data must be lawful and fair. For natural persons you must-
make it absolutely clear that they are being collected, used, consulted or attempted to
otherwise personal data concerning them, as well as the extent to which said
data is or will be processed. The principle of transparency requires that all information and
communication regarding the processing of said data is easily accessible and easy
to understand, and that simple and clear language is used. This principle refers to
particular to the information of the interested parties on the identity of the person in charge of the
treatment and the purposes of the same and to the information added to guarantee a treatment
fair and transparent treatment with respect to the natural persons affected and their right
right to obtain confirmation and communication of personal data concerning them.
nan that are subject to treatment.
Natural persons must be aware of the risks, standards, safeguards,
guards and the rights related to the processing of personal data, as well as the
way to enforce your rights in relation to the treatment. In particular, the fi-
specific terms of the processing of personal data must be explicit and legitimate.
mos, and must be determined at the time of collection. The personal data of
must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which
be treated. This requires, in particular, ensuring that it is limited to a strict minimum
its retention period. Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing
treatment could not reasonably be achieved by other means. To ensure that
personal data is not kept longer than necessary, the person responsible for the
treatment must establish deadlines for its suppression or periodic review. They must to-
take all reasonable steps to ensure that they are rectified or deleted
personal data that is inaccurate. Personal data must be treated in a
way that guarantees adequate security and confidentiality of the personal data
purposes, including to prevent unauthorized access or use of such data and the
equipment used in treatment.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

85/99

In short, it is the data controller who has the obligation to integrate the
necessary guarantees in the treatment, with the purpose of, under the principle of
proactive responsibility, comply and be able to demonstrate compliance, at the same
while respecting the fundamental right to data protection.
Recital 7 provides: (...) Individuals must have control of their
own personal data. (…)
The facts declared previously proven, are constitutive of a violation
of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD after providing ORANGE duplicates of the SIM card to third parties.
people who are not the legitimate owners of the mobile lines and even modifying
enter the personal data -email or SIM number- (claimant party
one), after the supplanting people overcome the security policies
implemented by the operator, which shows a breach of the duty of protection
collect customer information.
This unauthorized access to the SIM card is decisive for the actions
developed by the supplanting people whose purpose is to obtain
have an economic benefit (there are up to five calls to Banco Santander and the
performance of ten banking operations in the case of the claimant one and one
operation, in the case of the complaining party two), since the impersonator takes advantage of the
period of time that elapses until the user detects the fault on the line,
contacts the operator, and this detects the problem, to carry out operations
fraudulent bank transactions after accessing the online banking passwords of the legitimate subscriber
I swim.

The issuance and delivery of the duplicate to an unauthorized third party implies for those affected
two the loss of control of your personal data. Therefore, the value of that data
personal, integrated in a physical support -SIM card-, is real and unquestionable, reason
by which ORANGE have a legal duty to guarantee its safety, just as it would
with any other company assets.

It is worth mentioning ruling 292/2000, of November 30, of the Constitutional Court
tutional, which configures the right to data protection as an autonomous right
and independent that consists of a power of disposition and control over the data
personal data that empowers the person to decide which of these data to provide
to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or what data this third party may collect, and
which also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data and for what,
being able to oppose that possession or use. Thus, in accordance with the legal foundations
cos 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the judgment of the high court:

"4. Without needing to explain in detail the wide possibilities that information
matic offers both to collect and to communicate personal data or the
undoubted risks that this can entail, given that a person can ignore
rar not only what are the data that concern you that are collected in
a file but also if they have been transferred to another and for what purpose, it is
enough to indicate both extremes to understand that the fundamental right
to privacy (art. 18.1 CE) does not provide sufficient protection by itself
in the face of this new reality derived from technological progress.
However, with the inclusion of the current art. 18.4 CE the constituent put of
highlighted that he was aware of the risks that the use of the information could entail.
and entrusted to the legislator the guarantee of both certain fundamental rights
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

86/99

mental and the full exercise of the rights of the person. That is, in-
incorporating a guarantee institute "as a form of response to a new formation
a concrete threat to the dignity and rights of the person", but
which is also, "in itself,
 a fundamental right or freedom
(STC 254/1993, of July 20, FJ 6). Concern and purpose of the constituent
which is evident, on the one hand, if one takes into account that from the draft
The constitutional text already included a section similar to the current art. 18.4 EC
and that this was later expanded by accepting an amendment to include-
ra its final paragraph. And more clearly, on the other hand, because if in the debate in the
Senate, some doubts were raised about the need for this section of the
precept given the recognition of the rights to privacy and honor in the
initial section, however, were dissipated by highlighting that these
rights, in view of their content, did not offer sufficient guarantees against
the threats that the use of information technology could entail for the protection of
private life. So the constituent wanted to guarantee through the
current art. 18.4 EC not only a specific scope of protection but also
more suitable than the one that fundamental rights could offer, by themselves.
such mentioned in section 1 of the precept.
5. (…)
Well, in these decisions the Court has already declared that art. 18.4 EC
contains, under the terms of the STC 254/1993, a guarantee institute for the
rights to privacy and honor and the full enjoyment of the other rights
of citizens which, furthermore, is in itself "a fundamental right or freedom
mental health, the right to liberty in the face of potential attacks on the dignity
and the freedom of the person from an illegitimate use of the treatment
mechanized data, what the Constitution calls 'informatics'", which has been
called "computer freedom" (FJ 6, later reiterated in the
SSTC 143/1994, FJ 7, 11/1998, FJ 4, 94/1998, FJ 6, 202/1999, FJ 2). The guarantee-
privacy of a person's private life and reputation today have a dimension
positive pressure that exceeds the scope of the fundamental right to intimidation.
ity (art. 18.1 CE), and that translates into a right of control over the data
relating to the person himself. The so-called "computer freedom" is thus the right to
control the use of the same data inserted in a computer program (ha-
beas data) and includes, among other aspects, the citizen's opposition to
that certain personal data are used for purposes other than
the legitimate one that justified its obtaining (SSTC 11/1998, FJ 5, 94/1998, FJ 4).
This fundamental right to data protection, unlike the right to
privacy of art. 18.1 CE, with whom it shares the goal of offering efficient
effective constitutional protection of private personal and family life, attributes to
holder a bundle of powers consisting for the most part of the legal power
dictate of imposing on third parties the performance or omission of certain behaviors
ments whose specific regulation must be established by the Law, the one that conforms
to art. 18.4 CE must limit the use of information technology, either by developing the right
fundamental right to data protection (art. 81.1 CE), either regulating its exercise
cycle (art. 53.1 CE). The peculiarity of this fundamental right to protection
tion of data regarding that fundamental right as related as that of
intimacy lies, then, in its different function, which therefore entails
that also its object and content differ.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

87/99

6. The function of the fundamental right to privacy of art. 18.1 CE is that of
protect against any invasion that may be carried out in that area of the
personal and family life that the person wishes to exclude from the knowledge of others and
of the interference of third parties against their will (for all
STC 144/1999, of July 22, FJ 8). Instead, the fundamental right to
data protection seeks to guarantee that person a power of control over
about your personal data, about its use and destination, with the purpose of preventing
its illicit and harmful traffic for the dignity and rights of the affected. Finally, the right
The right to privacy allows certain data of a person to be excluded from knowledge.
third party, for this reason, and this Court has said so (SSTC 134/1999, of 15
July, FJ 5; 144/1999, FJ 8; 98/2000, of April 10, FJ 5; 115/2000, of 10 of
May, FJ 4), that is, the power to protect your private life from publicity
No, darling. The right to data protection guarantees individuals a
power of disposal over such data. This guarantee imposes on the public powers
public authorities prohibiting them from becoming sources of such information without the
due guarantees; and also the duty to prevent the risks that may derive
avoid improper access or disclosure of such information. But that power
of disposition on the personal data itself nothing is worth if the affected
knows what data is held by third parties, who owns it, and
to what end
Hence the singularity of the right to data protection, since, on the one hand,
Its object is broader than that of the right to privacy, since the right
fundamental to data protection extends its guarantee not only to privacy
in its dimension constitutionally protected by art. 18.1 EC, but to
which this Court has on occasion defined in broader terms as
sphere of the assets of the personality that belong to the sphere of private life.
da, inextricably linked to respect for personal dignity (STC 170/1987,
of October 30, FJ 4), such as the right to honor, expressly cited in the
art. 18.4 CE, and likewise, in a very broad expression of art. 18.4 CE, al
full exercise of personal rights. The fundamental right to
Data protection extends the constitutional guarantee to those data that
are relevant to or have an impact on the exercise of any rights
rights of the person, whether or not they are constitutional rights and whether or not they are relative
honor, ideology, personal and family intimacy to any other cons-
formally protected.
In this way, the object of protection of the fundamental right to protection
of data is not reduced only to the intimate data of the person, but to any
type of personal data, whether intimate or not, whose knowledge or use by third parties
ros may affect their rights, whether fundamental or not, because their purpose
it is not only individual intimacy, for this is the protection that art.
18.1 CE grants, but personal data. Therefore, also
It reaches those public personal data that, by the fact of being, of being
accessible to the knowledge of anyone, they do not escape the power of disposition
of the affected party because this is guaranteed by their right to data protection. Tam-
Also for this reason, the fact that the data is of a personal nature does not mean that it only
those related to the private or intimate life of the person have protection, but
that the protected data are all those that identify or allow the
identification of the person, being able to serve for the preparation of their profile
ideological, racial, sexual, economic or of any other nature, or that serve

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

88/99

for any other use that in certain circumstances constitutes a
threat to the individual.
But the fundamental right to data protection also has a se-
second peculiarity that distinguishes it from others, such as the right to privacy
personal and family of art. 18.1 EC. This peculiarity lies in its content,
since unlike the latter, which confers on the person the legal power
to impose on third parties the duty to refrain from any interference in the
privacy of the person and the prohibition of making use of what is thus known
(SSTC 73/1982, of December 2, FJ 5; 110/1984, of November 26, FJ
3; 89/1987, of June 3, FJ 3; 231/1988, of December 2, FJ 3; 197/1991,
of October 17, FJ 3, and in general the SSTC 134/1999, of June 15,
lio, 144/1999, of July 22, and 115/2000, of May 10), the right to pro-
data protection attributes to its holder a bundle of faculties consisting of different
those legal powers whose exercise imposes legal duties on third parties, which
are not contained in the fundamental right to privacy, and that serve the
essential function performed by this fundamental right: to guarantee the person
a power of control over your personal data, which is only possible and effective
vo imposing on third parties the aforementioned duties to do. Namely: the right
I agree that prior consent is required for the collection and use of the
personal data, the right to know and be informed about the destination and use of
that data and the right to access, rectify and cancel said data. In defi-
tive, the power of disposal over personal data (STC 254/1993, FJ 7).
7. From all that has been said, it follows that the content of the fundamental right to
Data protection consists of a power of disposition and control over data.
personal data that empowers the person to decide which of these personal data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or what this third party can
ro collect, and that also allows the individual to know who owns that data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These can-
disposition and control over personal data, which constitute part
of the content of the fundamental right to data protection are specified
legally empowered to consent to the collection, obtaining and access to
personal data, their subsequent storage and treatment, as well as their
possible use or uses, by a third party, be it the State or an individual. And that right-
right to consent to the knowledge and treatment, computerized or not, of the data
personal, requires as essential complements, on the one hand, the faculty
the right to know at all times who has these personal data and to what
use is subduing them, and, on the other hand, the power to oppose that possession and
applications.
Finally, they are characteristic elements of the constitutional definition of the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data the rights of the affected to
consent to the collection and use of your personal data and to know of the same
mos. And it is essential to make this content effective the recognition
protection of the right to be informed of who owns your personal data and with
what purpose, and the right to be able to oppose that possession and use by requiring
who corresponds to put an end to the possession and use of the data. Namely,
requiring the owner of the file to inform him of what data he has about his personal
person, accessing their appropriate records and seats, and what fate they have had-
do, which also reaches potential assignees; and, where appropriate, require
to rectify or cancel them.” (the underlining of all the paragraphs is
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

89/99

our)

Therefore, any action that involves depriving the person of those faculties
disposition and control over your personal data, constitutes an attack and a vulnerability
ration of their fundamental right to data protection.
SEVENTH: General conditions for the imposition of the administrative fine.

Article 83.2 of the RGPD provides that:

Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in art.
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine
and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages and losses.
who have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the data controller or data processor.
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have been applied
under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment-
I lie;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy
gave the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in re-
relationship with the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and k) any other factor
aggravating or mitigating circumstance applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as the benefits
financial gains obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
through the infringement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

90/99

For its part, article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures” of the LOPDGDD provides
ne:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established
two in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, also
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
cough.
h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, voluntarily
to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those su-
positions in which there are controversies between them and any interested party.
(…)”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanction
as responsible for the infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, it proceeds
graduate the fine that corresponds to impose, prior assessment of the allegations adduced
for the purposes of a correct application of the principle of proportionality.

On the one hand, the following aggravating factors have been taken into account:

- Article 83.2.a) RGPD:

 Nature and seriousness of the offence:

The violation of the principle of article 5.1.f) RGPD entails an im-
important for the rights of those affected.
The Agency considers that the nature of the infringement is very serious
since it entails a loss of disposition and control over the data
personal. Allows criminals to steal identity through se-
after obtaining a duplicate of the number of the telephone number
your SIM card. After the entry into force of the PSD2 Directive, the telephone
mobile comes to have a very important role in making payments on-line
line as needed for transaction confirmation, and converts
to this device -and by extension to the SIM card-, with the clear objective of
cyber criminals.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

91/99

Contrary to what ORANGE alleges, the seriousness of the infraction focuses
in the loss of disposal and control over the personal data of the
operator's customers due to the absence of appropriate security guarantees.
pious. The AEPD does not focus on previous or subsequent actions of
third parties, but rather in the actions or omissions of ORANGE that have
unauthorized or illicit access to the personal data of its clients is prohibited.
to third parties due to the absence of appropriate security guarantees,
matter that has been duly proven.
In all probability, if ORANGE had had measures of
appropriate security this transfer of personal data to third parties is not
would have produced
It is true that third parties have not accessed the mobile phones of
the interested parties, but yes to their personal data, as stated
manifest in this sanctioning procedure.
Likewise, it is not up to the AEPD to determine what the specifics are.
these security measures to be implemented, but to the controller
treatment, in-depth knowledge of its organization, treatments, vulnerability
nerabilities and the security measures required to make effective
vo the principle of integrity and confidentiality.

 Duration of the offence:

Although the facts denounced by the complaining parties occur
on certain dates, ORANGE declared in fiscal year 2019, (...) ca-
You are together with ORANGE VIRTUAL ESPAÑA, S.A.U (SIMYO).

ORANGE asserts that the infractions were punctual and quickly
solved and that the (...) cases are attributable to another legal company-
differentiated mind.

The sanctioning file has its origin in two claims
submitted to the Agency, although it has not only taken into account
the concrete facts and specificities that occurred in those cases, but
who has questioned the security measures adopted by ORANGE
in general. Thus, it must take into account all cases
of fraud declared by ORANGE itself together with ORANGE VIR-
TUAL ESPAÑA, S.A.U (SIMYO) that show a continuous evolution of
fraud cases.

In this particular, draw attention to the fact that together with the allegations to
the Proposal for a Resolution provides a Document 1 related to the
Complaint filed with the Superior Police Headquarters, Brigade
Provincial Judicial Police, Gº 7, of Madrid, by ORANGE ESPAÑA,
S.A.U. as harmed by the facts described in the complaint
(identity theft, fraudulent SIM card duplication and
bank fraud) of clients of ORANGE and SYMIO indistinctly,
when he states in his pleadings that they are two legal persons
different.

 Number of stakeholders affected:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

92/99

The Resolution collects the claims made by the two parties
claimants.

In addition, ORANGE reports a percentage of declared cases in the
financial year 2019 (...) with respect to the total number of clients (...) reached
a (…) %.

Reports on the completion of approximately (...) SIM changes,
cases of fraud reaching a (...) % of the total changes of card-
SIM cards made.

Given that, as has been explained, the object of the sanctioning procedure
The claimant is not limited to the two claims presented, but
the absence of security guarantees and unauthorized or illegal access
I quote from the data, it is considered the overall figure referred to.

 Level of damages suffered:

Tall.
It argues that practically all the operations have not given rise to
no contingency, nor has there been any damage or loss and that
carrying out banking operations is completely unrelated to duplication.
cation of the SIM card.
However, the proven facts show that after the issuance of the
duplicates, fraudulent banking operations have been carried out that
They happen in a short space of time. By duplicating the
SIM cards, would-be impersonators gain control of the line
line of the subscriber and specifically the reception of SMS addressed to the legitimate
subscribed to carry out on-line operations with banking entities
Planting your personality.
ORANGE is not responsible for customer identification policies.
established by banking entities. However, it is also
true, that if ORANGE ensured the identification procedure and
delivery of the duplicate SIM card, the system could not even be activated.
issue of verification of banking entities. the scammer person
after getting the activation of the new SIM, take control of the line
phone, thus being able, then, to carry out banking operations
fraudulent accessing the SMS that the banking entities send
to their clients as confirmation of the operations they execute. Is
sequence of events revealed in the international claims
put in place generates a series of serious damages that should be
be taken into account in an impact assessment relating to the pro-
data protection (considering 89, 90, 91 and article 35 of the RGPD). In
definitively, from the moment a duplicate is delivered to a person
other than the owner of the line or authorized person, the customer loses the
control of the line and the risks, damages, multiply. Ade-
Moreover, the events occur with an overwhelming immediacy.
Regarding the allegations made by ORANGE regarding the fact that
It is not possible to attribute the damages to ORANGE or consider them
as aggravating factors, we must furthermore mean that it is a
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

93/99

damage itself unauthorized or illicit access to personal data
of an interested party by a third party when violating the Fundamental Right
as to the protection of personal data.
In short, the application of the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.a) of the RGPD is
refers to all these previously analyzed aspects, positions of
manifest in the Proven Facts, in the social alarm generated by the
carrying out these fraudulent practices and due to the very high probability
materialization of the risk, without determining the number of re-
claims filed. And this, because what has been analyzed in the
present sanctioning procedure is the data protection policy
implemented by the data controller as a result of various re-
claims filed with the AEPD.

- Article 83.2.b) RGPD:
 Intentionality or negligence in the infringement:

He argues that his conduct must be considered diligent and act this
made as a mitigation of the sanction.
Although the Agency considers that there was no intent on the part of
ORANGE, the Agency concludes that it was negligent in failing to secure a
procedure that guarantees the protection of the personal data of
Your clients. Thus, a socially harmful result is produced.
ignoble that imposes the disapproval of the security policy implemented
gives.
Deny the concurrence of a negligent action on the part of ORAN-
GE would be equivalent to acknowledging that its conduct -by action or omission- has
been diligent. Obviously, we do not share this perspective of the
chos, since the lack of due diligence has been proven.
A large company that processes the personal data of its
customers on a large scale, systematically and continuously, must take extreme
care in fulfilling its obligations in terms of protection
tion of data, as established by jurisprudence. It is very illus-
tive, the SAN of October 17, 2007 (rec. 63/2006), based on
that these are entities whose activity is accompanied by continuous
processing of customer data, indicates that “…the Supreme Court has
ne understanding that there is recklessness whenever a
legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not behave with
the due diligence. And in assessing the degree of diligence,
weighing especially the professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no
doubt that, in the case now examined, when the activity of the
current is of constant and abundant handling of data of a personal nature.
sonal
 
 must insist on rigor and exquisite care to adjust to
 
legal provisions in this regard.
Also, contrary to ORANGE's assertions, when the
AEPD indicates that the operator "was negligent in not ensuring a pro-
procedure that guarantees the protection of the personal data of its
customers”, does not impose strict liability regarding the measures
give security This is so, because this statement must be put into
its context: in a violation of the principle of confidentiality as
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

94/99

as a result of negligence in implementing the measures
appropriate to which article 5.1.f) of the RGPD refers to to earn
guarantee that confidentiality. It is undeniable that unauthorized access
or illicit of the personal data of the affected party has been produced, derived,
in this case due to a lack of adequate security measures.

- Article 83.2.d) RGPD:
 Degree of responsibility of the person in charge:

Tall.
Responsibility for vulnerabilities in the implanted procedure
ted for the issuance of the SIM corresponds to ORANGE. The charge-
parties to the processing -if applicable- can only process the following data:
following the documented instructions of the person in charge.

The personal data that ORANGE collects both for contracting
of the service as during its provision are your responsibility and de-
must be treated in a way that allows the good development of the relationship
contractual agreement between the parties, guaranteeing at all times the application
cation of the principles of article 5 RGPD. And this is independent of
that the treatment is carried out by itself or through a person in charge of
treatment.
In this sense, article 28.3.h) of the RGPD establishes instruments of
continuous supervision by the person in charge of the treatment when indicating
that the person in charge “will make available to the person in charge all the information
information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the obligations
established in this article, as well as to allow and contribute
to the performance of audits, including inspections, by the
person in charge or of another auditor authorized by said person in charge”.
Regarding the performance of audits as an ideal means for
the data controller continuously supervises the processor
of treatment, CEPD Guidelines 07/2020 establish that:
“99. The obligation to use only data processors
"that provide sufficient guarantees" contained in article 28,
section 1 of the GDPR is a continuous obligation. It doesn't end in the mo-
moment in which the controller and the person in charge of the treatment celebrate a
contract or other legal act. Instead, the controller must, at intervals
appropriate, verify the guarantees of the processor, including through autho-
reports and inspections when appropriate". (The translation is ours).
Article 83.2.e) GDPR:

-

 Any previous infringement committed by the data controller:

It should be noted that recital 148 of the RGPD adds that it must
refer to “any previous relevant” or “relevant” infringement of the
translation of the original text in English “relevant”.
For this reason, we only consider a procedure in which a sanction has been
ORANGE (firm administrative decision) as a result
consequence of the treatments carried out without legitimation resulting from
an identity fraud.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

95/99

Infraction imputed

gives

Sanction

6.1 GDPR

80,000.00

Procedure No.

I lie

PS/00452/2019

Resolution date
sanctioned

dora

06/23/2020

- Article 83.2.g) RGPD:

 Categories of personal data affected by the breach:

ORANGE argues that only basic data of the
customers and that the SIM card is not personal data, since
we beat this argument in the FD Fourth.
The Agency considers unauthorized access to a duplicate card
SIM is considered particularly serious as it enables spoofing
of identity. Hence, we consider the stolen data as
sensitive nature.
The delivery of a duplicate SIM in favor of a third party other than the lender
legitimate owner is considered particularly serious since it makes it impossible to
sending or receiving calls, SMS, or access to data service,
which happens to be in the hands of the supplanting person.
Obtained the duplicate, the path to the applications and ser-
vices that have as a key recovery procedure the en-
sending an SMS with a code to be able to change the passwords. In
In addition, it enables identity theft.
It is not about the personal data that is required for the issuance of the du-
plicate of the card, but of the card itself as personal data associated
ciated to a telephone line owned by a user, which is obtained with
the purpose of supplanting your identity to obtain access -among others-
to banking applications or electronic commerce, in order to
interact and perform operations on their behalf, authenticating themselves
by a username and password previously taken from that user,
as well as with double-factor authentication when receiving the confirmation SMS.
signature on your own mobile terminal where you will have inserted the card
Duplicate SIM.
In this sense, bringing up again the aforementioned SAP of Barcelo-
na no. 390/2019 of May 30.

 Article 76.2.b) LOPDGDD:
 Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of treatment

personal data:
The development of the business activity carried out by ORANGE re-
wants continuous and large-scale processing of personal data
of customers, according to the number of mobile voice telephone lines
formed in the "EIGHTH Antecedent", which positions ORANGE
as one of the three largest telecommunications operators
of our country.

On the other hand, the following mitigating factors are taken into consideration:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

96/99

- Article 83.2.c) RGPD:
 Measures taken by the person responsible to mitigate the damages

suffered by the interested parties:
positive. Namely:
(...).
It also provides for compensation for damages suffered.

- Article 83.2.f) RGPD:
 Degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority:

Tall.
The Agency considers that ORANGE has cooperated favorably
with the investigation, providing response to the requirements and
forming part of the GT, which is valued positively.

- Article 76.2.c) LOPDGDD:
 The benefits obtained as a result of the commission of the investment

fraction.
This Agency does not consider that ORANGE has obtained a benefit
beyond receiving the cost price set for the issue
of duplicate SIM cards.

- Article 76.2.h) LOPDGDD:
 Submission to conflict resolution mechanisms.

Various telecommunications operators, including
ORANGE, signed a Protocol with AUTOCONTROL that, without per-
judgment of the powers of the AEPD, provides mechanisms for
the private resolution of controversies related to data protection
in the field of contracting and advertising of communication services
electronic forms, dated September 15, 2017. Protocol whose
effective enforcement should be considered mitigating.

The following extenuating circumstance must be taken into account:
- Article 83.2. j) GDPR:

Regarding adherence to approved certification mechanisms
under article 42.
ORANGE has the Certificate of conformity with the National Scheme
tional Security.

The allegations made in relation to article 83.2.a) are rejected.
b), d) and g) of the GDPR in the terms set forth above.
Likewise, the one set forth in article
76.2.a) of the LOPDGDD, regarding the continuous nature of the infraction,
because the lack of concurrence of the budget for its application entails
that cannot be taken into consideration, following the criteria expressed
by the SAN, Contentious-administrative Chamber, Section 1, of May 5
2021, Rec. 1437/2020, which says: “Considers, on the other hand, that it must learn
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

97/99

The non-commission of a previous infraction may be cited as a mitigating circumstance. As well,
Article 83.2 of the RGPD establishes that it must be taken into account for the im-
position of the administrative fine, among others, the circumstance "e) any in-
previous fraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment
to". This is an aggravating circumstance, the fact that he does not attend
the budget for its application implies that it cannot be taken into
consideration, but does not imply or allow, as the plaintiff claims, its application
cation as a mitigating factor”.

Finally, ORANGE requests that the fine be replaced by "the adoption of the measures
corrective measures contemplated in the aforementioned article 58, consisting of the warning or
warning to the controller and the imposition of the obligation to adopt
tion of measures to carry out the treatments “in a certain way and within
of a specified period”.

This request must also be dismissed. Understanding the corrective system
provided for in the RGPD that ORANGE proposes is wrong.

Article 83.2 of the RGPD provides that "Administrative fines will be imposed, in
depending on the circumstances of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for
the measures contemplated in article 58, section 2, letters a) to h) and j)”.

The same provision is included in article 58.2 of the RGPD regarding the powers
corrective actions of the control authorities, in which section i) provides: "impose a
administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the measures
mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each particular case.
lar”.

In the same sense, recital 148 of the RGPD states that: “In order to reinforce the
application of the rules of this Regulation, any infringement of this must be
be punished with sanctions, including administrative fines, in addition to
appropriate measures imposed by the supervisory authority under this Regulation.
regulation, or in substitution of these”.

This means that the administrative fines are imposed additionally, that is, they are
imposes a fine in addition to one of the corrective measures provided for in article
58.2. letters a) to h) and j) of the GDPR. Or, that the administrative fines are imposed by way of
substitute for the aforementioned corrective measures, that is, a substitute fine is imposed.
going to one or several of those measures. Thus, the fine is not replaced by one of the
corrective measures, if any, but rather the opposite.

Furthermore, recital 148 of the RGPD provides that: “In the event of infringement
minor, or if the fine likely to be imposed constituted an undue charge.
provided for a natural person, instead of a sanction by means of a fine,
put on a warning”. This provision entails the necessary imposition of a
fine in any case, in addition to other corrective measures that may additionally be
establish, if the infringement is considered serious for the purposes of the Regulation in
attention to the circumstances established in the aforementioned recital and in article 83 of the
GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

98/99

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the director of the AEPD
RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U., with NIF A82009812, for a
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and quali-
classified as very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.a) of the LO-
PDGDD, an administrative fine amounting to 700,000'00 euros (seven hundred thousand
euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ORANGE ESPAGNE, S.A.U.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that she must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of
article 98.1.b) of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment term established in article
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to article 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17,
December, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the penalized person and the number of
proceeding that appears in the heading of this document, in the restricted account
nº ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the AEPD in the bank
caria CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in period
executive.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the payment
It will be valid until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with article 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within one month from
tar from the day following the notification of this resolution or appeal directly
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Audien-
National Authority, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
Fourth additional section of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm resolution may be suspended in administrative proceedings if the interest
sado expresses its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the AEPD, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the Agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in article 16.4 of the LPACAP. You must also transfer to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

99/99

Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing of the contentious appeal
so-administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the notification
cation of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the AEPD

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

