legal

relative to

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
Bill no. 7691 amending: 1° the Code of Procedure
criminal law, 2° of the New Code of Civil Procedure, 3° of the law of 7 July
1971 relating to repressive and administrative matters,
institution
of experts, sworn translators and interpreters and supplementing the
provisions
the swearing in of experts,
translators and interpreters, 4° of the amended law of 9 December 1976
relating to the organization of the notariat, 5° of the amended law of 20 April 1977
on games of chance and sports betting, 6° of the amended law of 7 March
1980 on judicial organization, 7° of the amended law of 7 November
1996 on the organization of the courts of the administrative order, 8° of
the law of December 30, 1981 on compensation in the event of detention
preventive ineffective, 9° of the amended law of 15 March 1983 on
arms and ammunition, 10° of the amended law of 2 March 1984 relating to
compensation for certain victims of bodily injury resulting
of an offense and the repression of fraudulent insolvency, 11° of
the amended law of 4 December 1990 on the organization of the service of
bailiffs, 12° of the law of 31 January 1998 approving
adoption services and definition of their obligations, 13°
of the law of 6 May 1999 relating to penal mediation and
modification of various provisions a) of the amended law of 7 March
1980 on judicial organization, b) of the social insurance code,
14° of the law of 12 November 2002 relating to the private activities of
guarding and surveillance, 15° of the amended law of 7 June 2012 on
the court officers

 

Deliberation n°3/AV3/2021 of 02/10/2021

 
In accordance with article 57, paragraph (1), letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
General on Data Protection) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which Article 7 of the
Law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime, the National Commission for the

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

1/40

 

 
 
 

data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and
other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.
 
By letter dated November 12, 2020, the Minister of Justice invited the
National Commission to rule on the bill amending: 1° the Code of
criminal procedure, 2° of the New Code of Civil Procedure, 3° of the law of July 7, 1971 on
in repressive and administrative matters, institution of experts, translators and interpreters
sworn in and supplementing the legal provisions relating to the swearing in of experts,
translators and interpreters, 4° of the amended law of 9 December 1976 relating to the organization of the
notariat, 5° of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and sports betting, 6° of the
amended law of March 7, 1980 on judicial organization, 7° of the amended law of November 7, 1996
on the organization of the courts of the administrative order, 8° of the law of December 30, 1981
on compensation in the event of ineffective preventive detention, 9° of the amended law of March 15
1983 on arms and ammunition, 10° of the amended law of 2 March 1984 relating to compensation
of certain victims of bodily injury resulting from an offense and the repression of
fraudulent insolvency, 11° of the amended law of 4 December 1990 organizing the
service of judicial officers, 12° of the law of 31 January 1998 on the approval of services
of adoption and definition of the obligations incumbent on them, 13° of the law of 6 May 1999 relating to the
criminal mediation and amending various provisions a) of the amended law of 7 March
1980 on judicial organization, b) of the social insurance code, 14° of the law of 12
November 2002 relating to private guarding and surveillance activities, 15° of the law
of 7 June 2012 on legal attachés (hereinafter the "draft law").
 
According to the explanatory memorandum “[t]he bill aims to specify the various procedures
of “good repute checks” currently provided for in several legal texts relating to the
jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. ". The “good repute check” turns out, for example,
necessary in the context of the recruitment of judicial personnel or in the context of the
issuance of an application for an authorization, permit or approval in the field of weapons.
 
In this context, the authors of the bill specify that "certain administrations and
State services need to know information that is sometimes subject to secrecy
of instruction or considered sensitive in view of the new rules relating to the processing
data” and that “[to] this end, the Public Prosecutor must be able to receive requests
administrations or services exercising a prerogative of public power in order to see themselves
communicate information relating to criminal proceedings or the issuance of copies of
pieces that come from it”.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

2/40

 

 
 
 

As the authors of the bill point out, the “good repute check” aims to allow
the State administrations to examine "a request for the granting or refusal of a
permission ". The latter when they investigate such requests “must be based on
facts established to the requisite legal standard, and reports or minutes drawn up by officers
judicial police", which "are a source recognized for this purpose by the case law
administration”.
 
According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill specifies “the purposes of the processing carried out in the
framework of the various background check procedures, by limiting the consultation to
essential and necessary data and determining the retention period of the data
consulted by the competent authorities”. The authors of the bill further indicate that
the objective of the bill is “to allow any person concerned by the processing of
data for integrity check purposes, to understand the different types of
data consulted and for what types of purposes”.
 
Such background checks or “fitness checks” undeniably have
implications for privacy and data protection, the Commission
below will formulate its observations on the issues raised in this regard
by the provisions of the bill under notice.
 

I.

Introduction
 
1. On the notion of good repute

 
In Luxembourg law, the notion of good repute is “polysemous and depends on the materials and
of the purposes for which reference is made thereto”. It is not uncommon to find that the reference
made to the notion of “good repute” is found in different formulations. In effect,
certain national legal provisions refer to “requirements of good repute to be respected”,
“guarantees of good repute to be respected” or even conditions or guarantees of “morality”
to respect” 2. The authors of the bill also use, in the explanatory memorandum,
sometimes the term “background check” sometimes that of “reputability check”3.
 
As noted by the Council of State, the concept of good repute “is essentially used to
determine the conditions of access to a profession, often in relation to notions such as
as "morality", "professional integrity", "good
reputation" and "activities
irreproachable”. In order to determine professional integrity, the laws in question aim, in addition to
criminal record, other criteria, often defined negatively, such as the absence of
the accumulation of significant debts with public creditors or the use within the framework of the

                                                           
1 See additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020 relating to draft law No. 7425 on weapons and ammunition, document
No. 7425/08, developments under "Amendment 14".
2 See explanatory memorandum to the bill, page 5.
3 These are the terms used by the authors of the bill in the explanatory memorandum, page 4.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

3/40

request for authorization of falsified or misleading documents or declarations, the absence of
bankruptcy, lack of criminal conviction, etc. »4.
 
According to the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the lack of a common definition of the notion
of good repute is justified by the “diversity of matters which resort to such a procedure and
result in the great differences in the degrees of interference they operate”.
 
While it may be difficult to find a common definition given the diversity of subjects
and related background check or “fitness check” procedures,
the use of different terms implies that each concept has its own meaning.
 
If this were not the case, would it not be better to use the same terminology rather
than continuing to use, for example, the terms "morality", "professional integrity",
"good reputation" or "irreproachable activities"?
 
Although it is regrettable that the bill under opinion does not propose a common definition of
the notion of good repute or does not use the same terminology, it should be noted that this
however, ci oversees the investigations carried out in this regard.
 

2. On the legal framework established by the bill
 

The bill establishes a legal framework with respect to background or identity checks.
“good repute checks” to be carried out within the framework of the laws referred to in the text in
project.
 
The authors of the bill specify in the explanatory memorandum that such a legal framework has proved
necessary because "in many cases, the law fails to define precisely on which elements
carry out the background check or “good repute check” or what data is
taken into account in such a procedure. Indeed, the current texts do not allow
thus not allowing candidates or applicants to know exactly what data concerning them is
consulted by the competent authorities”.
 
It appears from the said draft law that the investigations carried out for the purpose of verifying the background
can be classified into three types according to their degree of intrusion, with regard to the verification of
criminal record according to approvals, permits, authorizations to be issued according to the project
of law or positions to be filled, as referred to in the bill.
 

                                                           
4 See additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020 relating to draft law No. 7425 on weapons and ammunition,
parliamentary document n°7425/08, developments under “Amendment 14”.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

4/40

Indeed, the first type of procedures includes background checks that are based on
the communication of an extract from the criminal record (hereinafter the “procedures for checking
antecedents of type 1”)5.
 
The second type of procedures includes background checks that relate to the
communication of an extract from the criminal record, on the facts relating to a criminal conviction
for a felony or misdemeanor and for which rehabilitation has not already been achieved at the time of
the introduction of the request, and on the facts likely to constitute a crime or misdemeanor having
resulted in the establishment of a police report, if these facts are the subject of a prosecution
criminal proceedings in progress, excluding facts that led to a decision of dismissal or classification
without follow-up (hereinafter “type 2 background check procedures”)6.
 
The third type of procedure concerns background checks which relate to the
communication of an extract from the criminal record, police reports and reports
concerning the applicant for acts which have been the subject of a criminal conviction or incriminated
as a crime or misdemeanor under the law, referred to in article 563, point 3° of the Criminal Code relating to the means of
minor act and violence, referred to in article 1 of the amended law of 8 September 2003 on violence
(hereafter “Type 3 background check procedures”)7.
 
It is to be regretted that these three procedures are not more standardized as regards
the actors who carry out the administrative investigations and with regard to the methods of
transmission of information from such surveys.
 
Indeed, it should be noted that either the Public Ministry itself conducts the investigations
administrative8 or he communicates the information necessary for the administrative investigation,
Minister of Justice9 or Minister of Finance 10. An identical diagram is therefore not reproduced
for all procedures.
 

                                                           
5 V. articles 1 relating to the draft law relating to article 8-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, article 2-3° of the draft law relating to article
1251-3 of the New Code of Civil Procedure and article 13 of the bill relating to article 2 of the law of 6 May 1999 relating to the
penal mediation, article 3 of the draft law relating to article 1 of the amended law of 7 July 1971 on criminal matters and
administrative, institution of experts, translators and sworn interpreters
6 See article 4 of the draft law relating to article 16 of the amended law of 9 December 1976 on the organization of the notarial profession, article 5 of the
bill relating to article 11 paragraph (3) of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and sports betting, article 6
of the draft law relating to articles 76 and 77 of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on the organization of the judiciary, article 7 of the draft law relating
in article 90 bis of the amended law of 7 November 1996 on the organization of administrative courts, article 11 of the draft
of law relating to articles 2 and 3 of the amended law of 4 December 1990 on the organization of the service of judicial officers and article
15 of the bill relating to article 2 of the amended law of 7 June 2012 on legal attachés.
7 See article 5 of the bill relating to article 11 paragraph (2) of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and betting
athletes, article 9 of the bill relating to article 16 of the amended law of 15 March 1983 on arms and ammunition, article 12 of the bill
of law relating to article 3 of the law of January 31, 1988 on the approval of adoption services and definition of their obligations
incumbent and article 14 of the draft law relating to article 8bis of the law of 12 November 2002 relating to the private activities of
guarding and monitoring.
8 See articles 4, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the bill
9 See articles 5, 9 and 14 of the bill
10 See article 5 of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

5/40

In addition, it should be noted that when the Public Prosecutor conducts administrative investigations,
the latter renders an opinion at the end of these, the elements of the content of which are not detailed by
the draft text. When the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Finance orders the
administrative inquiries they are forwarded by the Public Prosecutor the information
covered by the bill. The CNPD will come back to this below in point VI. of this notice.
 
Thus, notwithstanding the diversity of subjects, it is to be regretted that a common structure has not
could be identified by the authors of the bill, with regard to the entities that carry out the
administrative inquiries and the procedures for transmitting data from such enquiries.
 

3. On the legal framework in France
 

By way of comparison with the system proposed by the text under opinion, it is interesting to note
that there is a common legal framework, in French law, with regard to investigations
administrative whose purpose is to check the background of a person wishing to access
certain professions or seeking certain authorizations or approvals. The system
French is based on Articles L.114-1 and L.234-1 of the French Internal Security Code (here
after the “CSI”) which set the general framework for administrative investigations and then the procedures for
these surveys are supplemented by decrees.
 
Article L.114-1 of the CSI provides that “[a] administrative decisions on recruitment,
of assignment, tenure, authorization, approval or authorization, provided for by
legislative or regulatory provisions, concerning either public employment participating in
the exercise of State sovereignty missions, either public or private jobs falling within the
field of security or defence, i.e. private jobs or regulated private activities
in the areas of gaming, betting and racing, or access to protected areas due to
of the activity carried out there, i.e. the use of materials or products of a
dangerous, may be preceded by administrative inquiries intended to verify that the
behavior of the natural or legal persons concerned is not incompatible with
the exercise of the functions or missions envisaged”. Articles R.114-2 to R.114-5 of the CSI
list the professions or certifications that may give rise to the surveys mentioned in
article L.114-1 of the CSI.
 
By way of example, it should be noted that such investigations may give rise to "persons
used to participate in a private surveillance and guarding activity”11,
the “[r]ecruitment of members of administrative courts, law enforcement officials
judiciary and local judges”12 as well as the decisions relating to the authorization of
“to practice gambling in authorized casinos”13, decisions relating to
the approval of “directors and members of the management committees of authorized casinos

                                                           
11 Article R.114-2, 1°, c) of the CSI
12 Article R.114-2, 2° of the CSI
13 R.114-3, 1°, a) of the CSI
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

6/40

 

 
 
 

as well as people employed in casino gaming rooms”14 or even the
authorizations or approvals relating to the “[a]quisition, possession, manufacture, trade,
intermediation, import, export, transfer and transit of war materials, arms,
ammunition and their parts of any category; use, exploitation, export and transit
war materials and similar materials (…)”15.
 
Articles L.234-1, R.234-1 of the CSI specify the files that will be consulted during a
administrative inquiry referred to in article L.114-1 of the CSI, as well as the terms of access to
such files.
 
It is also interesting to note that these administrative inquiries are carried out by the service
administrative security investigation16 (hereinafter the “SNEAS”) and that processing
automated processing of personal data referred to as "Automation of the consultation
central information and data center” (ACCReD) allows SNEAS to carry out the
automatic and, where appropriate, simultaneous consultation of personal data processing
staff to check whether the data subject is registered there17.
 
If the authors of the bill have chosen not to draw inspiration from the French approach, it is
that is to say, provide for a common legal framework, the National Commission wonders if it would not be
however, it is irrelevant that the administrative inquiries be carried out by one and the same
authority like the French SNEAS and that only opinions reporting on the results of
the investigation are communicated to the authorities concerned.
 
Moreover, it is recommended that the authors of the bill draw inspiration from certain provisions
French in particular in that they list the files that can be consulted during
administrative inquiries, as well as the categories of personal data that would be
collected during such surveys in the event that the data from such surveys is
preserved18.
 

II.

On the principle of the lawfulness of the processing carried out within the framework of the procedures
background checks or “good repute checks”
 

As a preliminary remark, it should be noted that the data collected, within the framework of the
administrative investigations, are initially collected and processed by the Grand Ducal Police19, by

                                                           
14 Article R.114-3, 2°, a) of the CSI
15 Article R.114-5, 1° of the CSI
16 See decree no. 2017-668 of 27 April 2017 creating a service with national competence called the "national service for
administrative security investigations »
17 V. Decree No. 2017-1224 of August 3, 2017 creating an automated processing of personal data called
“Automation of centralized consultation of information and data” (ACCReD)
18 See articles R.236-1 et seq. and decree no. 2017-1224 of August 3, 2017 creating automated data processing at
personal character called “Automation of centralized consultation of information and data” (ACCReD)
19 See articles 9 and 14 of the bill.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

7/40

the Public Prosecutor’s Office20 or by the State Intelligence Service (hereinafter the “SRE”)21 to
purposes of prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences.
matter or execution of criminal sanctions. These initial processing operations are subject to the law of the 1st
August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of data
of a personal nature in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
 
However, it should be noted that the processing of personal data implemented
operates under the background check or “screening” procedures.
of good repute” will be subject to the GDPR while the purpose pursued is the recruitment of a
candidate for one of the positions covered by the text under notice, or the issuance of an authorization, a
license or approval, as referred to in the bill.
 
Thus, although the purposes of the processing envisaged within the framework of the draft law, are
administrative purposes, the very nature of the data transmitted and then used for
to initiate the administrative inquiry remains identical to the nature of the data processed for the purposes of
prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or
execution of criminal penalties. In such a context, it is necessary to question the articulation
the provisions of the GDPR with those of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data with regard to
criminal law and national security.
 
This issue is also illustrated in Article 11, paragraph (6), of the amended law of 20
April 1977 on games of chance and sports betting, as amended by Article 5 of the draft
law. These provisions expressly refer to the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
in criminal matters and in matters of national security.
 

1. On Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR

 

The authors of the bill are to be congratulated on the fact that, from a security point of view
legal, the draft law establishes a legal basis for the investigations carried out within the framework of
background checks or “fitness checks”, in accordance with Article 6,
paragraph (3), GDPR.
 
Indeed, the processing of personal data collected and processed in the context of
the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority
invested the controller must have a legal basis in accordance with Article 6,

                                                           
20 See articles 4, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the bill.
21 See articles 9 and 14 of the bill.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

8/40

 

 
 
 

paragraph (3), of the GDPR, read together with its paragraph (1), letters c) and e)22, which provides
that “[t]he basis of the processing referred to in paragraph 1, points c) and e), is defined by:

has. Union law; Where
b. the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.

The purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, insofar as
relates to the processing referred to in point (e) of paragraph 1, are necessary for the performance
of a mission of public interest or relating to the exercise of the official authority of which
invested the controller. This legal basis may contain
specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation,
among others: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the processing by the
controller; the types of data that are subject to processing; them
persons concerned; the entities to which the personal data
may be disclosed and the purposes for which they may be disclosed; the
purpose limitation; retention periods; and the operations and procedures of
processing, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as
than those provided for in other specific processing situations such as
provides for Chapter IX. »
 

This article provides for a specific constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a task in the public interest or
relating to the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In
these two scenarios, the basis and purposes of the data processing must
specifically be defined either by the law of the European Union or by the law of the State
member to which the controller is subject.
 
In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should "(...) belong to Union law or
the right of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. Furthermore, this right could
specify the general conditions of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of
personal data, establish the specifications aimed at determining the person responsible for the
processing, the type of personal data being processed, the persons
concerned,
personal data can be
communicated, purpose limitations, retention period and other measures aimed at
to guarantee lawful and fair processing (...)”.
 
Recital (41) of the GDPR further states that “[w]here this Regulation refers
to a legal basis or legislative measure, this does not necessarily mean that
the adoption of a legislative act by a parliament is required, without prejudice to the obligations laid down

the entities to which

                                                           
22 Article 6, paragraph (1), letters c) and e) provides that: “Processing is only lawful if and insofar as at least one of the
following conditions is met: (…) c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller
treatment is submitted; (…) e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or relating to the exercise of
the official authority vested in the controller; (…)”.

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

9/40

 

 
 
 

under the constitutional order of the Member State concerned. However, this legal basis or
this legislative measure should be clear and precise and its application should be foreseeable for
litigants, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and
of the European Court of Human Rights. ".
 
Pursuant to the above provisions, these legal bases should establish provisions
aimed at determining, among other things, the types of data processed, the persons
concerned, the entities to which the data may be communicated and for which
purposes, the data retention periods or the operations and procedures of
treatment.
 
Although the legal basis, establishing the various procedures for background checks or
of “good repute check”, specifies the types of data processed, the persons concerned
as well as the entities to which the data may be communicated and for what purposes,
the National Commission notes that certain elements relating to the processing of data are not
not sufficiently specified or not specified at all (for example the retention period
data) in the bill.
 
In addition, the entities that conduct the investigations, as provided for by the bill, will be-
they are required to keep a register that will bring together all the data from such
surveys? Will the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Finance keep a record in
which would the data from the administrative surveys appear? What about the Ministry
public, will he also keep a specific “administrative inquiries” register or will the
related data processing will, if necessary, be part of the "JU-CHA" database?
 
If this were to be the case, the National Commission considers it essential that the creation of such registers
be provided for in this bill. The legal provisions establishing the said registers
must contain the elements mentioned above. On this point, reference is also made to the
French legal provisions governing the registers of data resulting from surveys
administrative23. If such files should exist, it is recommended that the authors of the project
law to draw inspiration from the French system.
 

2. On the principles established by the case law of the European Court of Rights

Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union
 

The National Commission must emphasize the fundamental importance of the principle of legality
processing of personal data which must be read in the light of Article 8
paragraph (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights concerning the right to
privacy, as well as article 52 paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Charter of Rights
fundamentals of the European Union. In essence, these two articles, together with the
consistent case law of the European Court of Human Rights, hold that a

                                                           
23 See articles R.236-1 to R.236-10 of the CSI relating to the processing of personal data called “Administrative investigations
related to public safety”
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

10/40

data processing carried out by a public authority may constitute interference with the
right to respect for private life or limit the exercise of the right to data protection. This
interference or limitation may be justified provided that it:

-

-

-
-

is provided for by a law accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its
repercussions, i.e. formulated with sufficient precision (A);
is necessary in a democratic society, subject to the principle of
proportionality (B);
respects the essential content of the right to data protection;
effectively meets objectives of general interest or the need to protect
rights and freedoms of others.
 

More specifically, it is necessary to examine whether the first two conditions are met in the present case.
 

A. On the first condition

 

According to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, an interference with the right to
privacy is “prescribed by law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph (2) of the
European Convention on Human Rights24, if it is based on an article of national law
which has certain characteristics. The expression “prescribed by law” therefore implies, according to the
case law of the European Court of Human Rights that domestic legislation must use
terms that are clear enough to indicate to everyone sufficiently in what circumstances and
under what conditions it empowers the public authorities to resort to measures affecting the
rights protected by the Convention25. Domestic legislation must be "accessible to persons
concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions”26. A rule is predictable "if it is
formulated with sufficient precision to allow any person – benefiting
possibly with appropriate assistance – to adapt their behaviour”27 as well as “[t]he
The degree of precision required of the “law” in this respect will depend on the subject in question. »28.
 
In order to fulfill these criteria of accessibility and predictability of the “law”, on the one hand, and thus limit
possible arbitrary and abusive behavior on the part of public authorities, on the other hand,
national law can therefore provide for and regulate more specifically the processing of data

                                                           
24 Article 8 paragraph (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights provides that: “There can be no V. interference from a
public authority in the exercise of this right only insofar as this interference is prescribed by law and constitutes a measure
which, in a democratic society, is necessary for national security, public safety, the economic well-being of the country,
the defense of order and the prevention of criminal offences, the protection of health or morals, or the protection of
rights and freedoms of others”.
25 CouEDH, Fernández Martínezc. Spain [GC], n°56030/07, para. 117.
26 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 50; V. also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, 25
March 1998, para. 55 and CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n° 25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.
27 CoEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 56; V. also CouEDH, Malone c. UK No.
8691/79, April 26, 1985, para. 66; CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75,
7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.
28 ECtHR, The Sunday Times v. 6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; V. also CouEHD, Silver and others c.
5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

11/40

the European Union, requiring in particular that a

personal character made by such authorities. This legal framework would also be a
guarantor of the principle of legal certainty for the benefit of the persons concerned, the candidates for
positions covered by the draft text, or applicants for authorisation, permit or approval
provided for by the bill under notice. Legal certainty is a general principle of law
of
regulations leading to
adverse consequences for individuals is clear and precise and its application
foreseeable for litigants. The regulations must enable interested parties to find out with
accuracy of the extent of the obligations it imposes on them, must allow them to know without
ambiguity of their rights and obligations as well as enabling them to make arrangements
accordingly29.
 
This is why the European Court of Human Rights within its
jurisprudence affirms that "domestic law must offer some protection against attacks
arbitrary actions by the public authorities to the rights guaranteed by Article 8 paragraph 1”30. By
Consequently, the internal legislation “must define the extent and the methods of exercise of the power
with sufficient clarity – taking into account the legitimate aim pursued – to provide the individual with a
adequate protection against arbitrariness”. The Court of Justice of the European Union considers that
case of limitation of the protection of personal data or the right to respect for the
privacy, a legal text “must provide clear and precise rules governing the scope and
application of the measure in question and imposing a minimum of requirements so that the
persons whose data have been retained have sufficient guarantees allowing
to effectively protect their personal data against the risk of misuse as well as
against any unlawful access and use of such data.
 
Therefore, insofar as the data processing implemented in the context of surveys
administrative, covered by the bill under opinion, constitute an interference in the right to
respect for the privacy of candidates or applicants for an authorization, permit or
approval, as targeted by the bill under opinion, this should regulate more
specifically such processing in accordance with the case law of the European Court of
human rights. However, it is clear that the bill under opinion, as amended, is not,
in places, not written with sufficient precision33. The CNPD will return
particularly on this point in its developments under points IV. and V. below.
 
 

                                                           
29 See e.g. Court of Human Rights, Aurubis Balgaria of 31 March 2011, C-546/09, points 42-43; Judgment, Alfamicro v. Commission of November 14
2017, T-831/14, paragraphs 155-157.
30 ECtHR, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95 para 56.
31 Ibid. See also EDH Court, Malone c. United Kingdom, series A n°82, of August 2, 1984, pp. 31-32, para.66; Court EDH, Fernández
Martinez c. Spain CE:ECHR:2014:0612JUD005603007, 12 June 2014 para.117; Court EDH, Liberty and others v. UK,
no. 58243/00, of July 1, 2008, para. 62 and 63; EDH Court, Rotaru c. Romania, App. No. 28341/95, May 4, 2000, para. 57 to 59 and Court
EDH, S and Marper v. United Kingdom, Applications Nos. 30562/04 and 30566/04, of 4 December 2008 para. 99.; Dimitrov-Kazakov v. Bulgaria
n°11379/03, of February 10, 2011.
32 Judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and C-594/12, EU:C:2014:238, paragraph 54.
33 In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in law
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

12/40

B. On the second condition

 

It is apparent from the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court
European Court of Human Rights that the grounds invoked by the public authorities for
justify a limitation on the exercise of the right to the protection of personal data or
interference with the right to respect for private life must be relevant and sufficient 34 and
that it must be demonstrated that there are no other less intrusive methods35. The notion of
necessity, as interpreted by the Court of Justice of the European Union, implies that the
measures adopted are less intrusive than other options to achieve the same goal. Of
more, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, to respond to the
necessity test, the interference must also be proportionate. In his "Manual of Law
European Data Protection Agency”, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights
European Union specifies that “[p]orportionality requires that a measure of interference in
the exercise of the rights protected by the European Court of Human Rights does not go beyond
what is necessary to achieve the legitimate aim pursued. Important factors to consider
taken into account when assessing the proportionality test are the scope of the interference,
in particular the number of people concerned, and the guarantees or warnings put in place
place to limit its scope or its negative effects on the rights of individuals.
 
The European Data Protection Supervisor further indicates that “[a] review of the
Proportionality generally involves determining which “safeguards” should be
accompany a measure (which would relate for example to surveillance) in order to reduce to a
“acceptable”/proportionate level the risks posed by the planned measure with regard to the
fundamental rights and freedoms of the individuals concerned. »37.

In this case, in the absence of such details in the bill, what would be the guarantees
envisaged by the authors of the bill under opinion? Wouldn't there be methods less
intrusive than the system provided for by the draft text?
 
With regard more particularly to administrative inquiries which would not bear
only on the communication of an extract from the criminal record, there is reason to wonder about the
consequences that such a mechanism is likely to have for the persons concerned.
 
The duplication of information concerning the criminal record of a person concerned
in the hands of different authorities could be one of them. Indeed, the CNPD
asks whether, following the administrative inquiries carried out by the Minister of Justice or the
Minister of Finance, of the data contained in the files kept by the Grand Ducal Police,
by the Public Ministry or the SRE would be included again in a file

                                                           
34 See the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 4 December 2008, S. and Marper c. UK.
35 See the judgments of the Court of Justice of 9 November 2010, C-92/09, Volker und Markus Schecke GbR/Land Hessen, and C-
93/09, Eifert/Land Hessen and Bundesansalt für Landwirtschaft und Ernährung.
36 See page 45 of the “Handbook on European data protection law” of the Union Agency for Fundamental Rights
European.
37 See page 11 of the “EDPS Guidelines on the assessment of the proportionality of measures limiting the rights
fundamental to privacy and the protection of personal data”.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

13/40

held by the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Finance. In order to avoid duplication of
such data and the keeping of a kind of new “double register” by the Minister of Justice or
Minister of Finance, a less intrusive method of achieving the same goal should be
preferred to the system currently provided for in the bill.
 
Thus, the attention of the authors of the bill should be drawn to the proposal made by the Conseil
of State, in its additional opinion of December 19, 2020 relating to draft law No. 7425 on
weapons and ammunition38, concerning the verification of good repute referred to in article 14 of the bill
aforementioned.
 
Instead of the integrity verification procedure introduced by the said bill, the Conseil
of State proposes the mechanism of a “detailed opinion of the State prosecutor referring both to the
criminal record than to all the relevant minutes and reports to which the
State prosecutor can have access, and even to information transmitted to him by the
Grand Ducal Police”.
 
This system would avoid duplication of data concerning the background
legal proceedings of the person concerned while allowing the Minister of Justice or the Minister
of Finance to obtain the necessary and relevant information, in the form of an opinion from the
Public Prosecutor, in order to enable him to assess their “honourability”. Such a mechanism
would still have the advantage that the administrative inquiry would be entrusted to an authority
law enforcement, the Public Ministry, and not to one or more administrations. Indeed, such an authority
would be more appropriate to carry out such an investigation given the nature of the data processed.
 
Furthermore, it should be noted that this opinion mechanism of the Public Prosecutor's Office is already
provided for some of the background check procedures referred to in the text in
project39. The National Commission considers that it would be preferable to transpose this system to
all of the background check procedures provided for in the bill.
 

III.

On the origin of the data
 
1. Article 8, paragraph (1), of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security
 

The National Commission understands that the data collected and processed by the Minister of
Justice, the Minister of Finance or even the Attorney General within the framework of
background check or “fitness check” procedures, come from
files held by the Grand-Ducal Police40, the Public Prosecutor's Office41 and the SRE42.
                                                           
38 See additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020, parliamentary document no. 7425/08, developments under
“Amendment 14”.
39 See articles 4, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the bill
40 Articles 9 and 14 of the bill
41 Articles 1, 2-3°, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 13 and 15
42 Articles 9 and 14 of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

14/40

It should be noted that these data were initially collected by the aforementioned authorities
for the purposes of prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigation and prosecution of
the matter or execution of criminal sanctions and will be dealt with within the framework of the bill
for different subsequent purposes.
 
The CNPD is pleased that such a legal basis is provided for by the mechanism under opinion in accordance with
the provisions of Article 8, paragraph (1), of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in
criminal law and national security.
 
This article provides that "[p]ersonal data collected by the authorities
competent for the purposes set out in Article 1 may not be processed for purposes other than
than those set out therein, unless such processing is authorized by Union law.
European Union or by a provision of Luxembourg law. ".
 
Nevertheless, it should be noted that the legal basis, under opinion, seems to establish a special regime
in relation to the provisions of Chapter 2, section 2, of the law of February 22, 2018 relating to
the exchange of personal data and information in police matters, and to those
provided for by article 9 paragraph (2) of the amended law of July 5, 2016 reorganizing the
ERS.
 
Indeed, these provisions are respectively intended to regulate the transmission of such
given by the Grand Ducal Police to other administrations as part of the verification of
good repute43, and the communication by the SRE of “[d]information collected within the framework
of its missions (…) to the administrations insofar as this information seems useful
to the accomplishment of their respective missions. »44.
 
It is to be welcomed that the bill expressly provides:

-

-

the communication of data by the Public Ministry to the Minister of Justice or to the
Minister of Finance as part of background check procedures or
of "good repute control" whereas to date no legal provision provided for a
such communication; and
the processing of such data by the public prosecutor for investigation purposes
administrative, as provided for by the device under opinion.

 
Finally, and in order to enable data subjects to understand the extent and scope of
the administrative investigation, would it not be better to indicate in the bill that the

                                                           
43 See parliamentary document no. 6975 on the bill relating to the exchange of personal data and information in
police matters, comments of the authors of the bill concerning sections 26 and following of the bill.
44 V. Article 9 paragraph (2) of the amended law of 5 July 2016 reorganizing the SRE.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

15/40

data collected during administrative investigations come from files kept by the police
Grand Ducal, the Public Ministry or the SRE? On this point, the authors of the bill could
be inspired by French legislation.
 
As for the files kept by the Grand-Ducal Police, it should be noted that the bill
No. 7741 amending 1° the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, 2°
of the amended law of 5 July 2016 reorganizing the SRE and 3° of the Penal Code, was
tabled on December 30, 2020. The purpose of the said bill is to regulate the
processing of personal data carried out in the files of the Grand-Police
ducale, and more precisely in the central file.
 
Particular attention should be paid to access to the passive part of the central file. His
access is, in fact, strictly limited to the purposes listed in paragraph (19) of Article 43-
2 of bill no. 7741 (administrative inquiries are not covered therein) and is subject to
the consent of the State Attorney General. Therefore, the authors of the bill should ensure that
the good coherence and articulation between the two draft texts.
 

2. The so-called “JU-CHA” database

 

It should be noted that the so-called "JU-CHA" database is currently supervised by the
only law of 1 August 2018 relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
 
In its opinion of July 31, 2020 on the “JU-CHA” application, the judicial control authority
specifies that “[t]here is no doubt that the data processing carried out by the authorities
competent in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security constitute a
interference with the right to respect for private life and the right to data protection and that
the penal provisions, in particular the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, constitute
a sufficient legal basis for the collection of personal data in the execution
of the essential missions of the public prosecutor's office and the judicial courts".
 
According to the judicial control authority, the "JU-CHA" application would constitute a processing of
separate data by "going beyond data processing based on the procedures
criminal” because it would facilitate “the exploitation and linking of information on the basis of
separate legal proceedings" and would allow "reconciliations between these different
processing of data for related purposes”. The terms and conditions of this
processing of data is not provided for by law.
 
In accordance with the developments under point II. of this notice, such details
should be provided for by law in order to provide greater legal certainty to

                                                           
45 V. our developments under point I.3 of this opinion
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

16/40

 

 
 
 

litigants. The Council of State has moreover rightly noted, in its aforementioned additional opinion
relating to bill no.
that of the legal basis of the so-called “Jucha” databases. If the maintenance of these files were to
receive a legal basis, one could envisage a system in which the State prosecutor is
invited to issue an opinion on the dangerousness of the applicant, including with regard to information
taken from the minutes and reports before it”46.
 
Thus, in the event that the Minister of Justice intends to legislate on this point, and intends
given the interaction between the "JU-CHA" application and the provisions under notice, the authors of the
bill will have to ensure that the text articulates with the bill under opinion.
 

IV.

On the processing of personal data relating to convictions
criminal offenses and related offenses or security measures
 

For the purposes of verifying good repute, the draft law provides that the processing carried out will bear
on personal data relating to criminal convictions and offenses and
more specifically on the data relating to the criminal record (2) and on the facts likely to
constitute a crime or misdemeanor or relating to a criminal conviction for a crime or misdemeanor (3). Gold,
it should be remembered that these data can only be processed in compliance with the
conditions referred to in Article 10 of the GDPR (1).
 

1. On compliance with the provisions of Article 10 of the GDPR

 

Article 10 of the GDPR provides that “[t]he processing of personal data relating to
criminal convictions and related offenses or security measures based on
article 6, paragraph 1, can only be carried out under the control of the public authority, or if the
processing is authorized by Union law or by the law of a Member State which provides for
appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of data subjects. ". The said item
further specifies that “[a]ny complete register of criminal convictions can only be kept
under the control of public authority.
 
In the absence of precision in the text under opinion or by the authors of the bill in the
commentary on the articles, the National Commission wonders what would be the guarantees that
would be planned?
  
Given the nature of the data that would be collected as well as the level of risk associated with the
loss of confidentiality of such data and its potential impact on individuals
concerned, it is essential that such safeguards be included in the bill.

                                                           
46 See additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020, parliamentary document no. 7425/08, developments under
“Amendment 14”.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

17/40


Such safeguards should be more particularly provided for the procedures of
type 2 and 3 background checks while these are not based solely on
extract from the criminal record and are the most intrusive from the point of view of the privacy of
persons concerned. Indeed, they will see their data, relating to convictions
criminal offenses or to facts likely to constitute criminal offences, to be consulted or
communicated to the Minister of Justice, or to the Minister of Finance for purposes
foreign to those for which these data were initially collected47.
 
However, it would be advisable to avoid a duplication of such data in the hands of several
authorities48, or to avoid a multiplicity of access to such data, while this creates a
increased risk of illegitimate access to such data.
 
Therefore, as indicated above, it would be preferable to implement a system of
background check or “good repute check” based on a detailed opinion
of the State prosecutor, as reflected in articles 4, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the bill.
 
The CNPD therefore considers it essential that guarantees be provided by the authors of the draft
law. The transmission of a detailed opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office instead of transmissions
currently provided for by the bill, as suggested by the Council of State in its opinion
supplement of December 19, 2020 relating to draft law No. 7425 on weapons and ammunition 49,
could be one of them.
 

2. On the processing of data relating to criminal records

 

In the Luxembourg legal order, the communication of information relating to
court decisions are made by issuing extracts from the criminal record in accordance with the law
of March 29, 2013 relating to the organization of the criminal record. This law creates
several ballots with a breakdown of the entries on the respective ballots.
 
If it appears that the processing of an extract from a national or foreign criminal record is a
common denominator to all the background check procedures provided for by
the bill, nuances are, however, to be distinguished between the verification procedures
a history of type 1 (A), type 2 (B) and type 3 (C).
 

                                                           
47 Reference is made to our observations set out in point II. and III. of this notice.
48 The latter would have, if necessary, at the end of the background check procedures, copies of the reports of
police, extracts from minutes, judgments, extracts from criminal records, or even, in certain cases, “information
required” provided by the SRE.
49 See parliamentary document no. 7425/08, developments under “Amendment 14”
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

18/40

A. Type 1 background check procedures

 

has. On the communication of the bulletin N ° 2 of the criminal record

 

For the purposes of appointing a sworn expert, translator and interpreter in law enforcement matters
and administrative50, or the issuance of a mediator’s license51, or a facilitator’s license for
restorative justice52, the Minister of Justice will request, for each of these procedures, that the
applicant provides a bulletin N°2 of his criminal record.
 
Indeed, the bill specifies that the Minister of Justice “in accordance with article 8
paragraph 1 of the amended law of 29 March 2013 on the organization of criminal records
can take note of the entries in bulletin number 2 of the applicant's criminal record
to verify that the criminal record of the latter is not incompatible with
exercise of the functions” of experts, translators, interpreters, mediator or facilitator of justice
restorative.
 
However, there is reason to question the relevance of the reference to Article 8 paragraph (1) of the
amended law of 29 March 2013 on the organization of criminal records53. This article refers
also to the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 2016 setting the list of administrations and
legal persons governed by public law who may request a bulletin N°2 or N°3 of the criminal record
with the written or electronic consent of the person concerned (hereinafter the “Grand-Ducal Regulation
of July 23, 2016”).
 
Indeed, if the will of the authors of the bill is to allow the Minister of Justice
to obtain the communication of bulletin N°2 by the Public Ministry then this should be reflected
clearly in the bill. Furthermore, such details would constitute a legal basis
sufficient to enable the Minister of Justice to obtain bulletin No. 2 from the applicant. In
In such a case, the applicant's agreement would appear superfluous, whereas the communication of such
newsletter would then have a legal basis.
 

                                                           
50 See article 3 of the draft law relating to article 1 of the amended law of 7 July 1971 on repressive and administrative matters,
institution of sworn experts, translators and interpreters.
51 See article 2-3° of the draft law relating to article 1251-3 of the New Code of Civil Procedure and article 13 of the draft law relating to
article 2 of the law of 6 May 1999 on penal mediation
52 See article 1 of the bill relating to article 8-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
53 Article 8, paragraph (1) of the amended law of 29 March 2013 on the organization of criminal records provides that “[t]he bulletin
No. 2 of a natural or legal person is issued on request: 1) to State administrations, municipal administrations and
legal persons governed by public law seized, within the framework of their legal missions, of a request presented by the person
natural or legal entity concerned, which has given its consent in writing or electronically so that bulletin No. 2 is issued
directly to the administration or to the legal entity under public law. The list of administrations and legal entities
public and the grounds for an application for issuance are set by Grand-Ducal regulation”.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

19/40

In any case, if the authors of the bill were to maintain such provisions,
these would prove to be superfluous with regard to article 1 of the bill in the light of the
provisions of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 201654.
 

b. On the communication of an extract from a foreign criminal record

 

The draft law provides that “if the applicant is a national of another Member State of the Union
European Union or a third State, the Minister of Justice may ask him to submit an extract
the criminal record or a similar document issued by the competent public authority of the
of the countries of which he is a national.
 
It is further specified that subject to the agreement of the applicant, the "Minister may also
send a reasoned request to the State Attorney General to obtain an extract from the
criminal record from the competent authority of the Member State of which the applicant is a national”.
 
The National Commission welcomes the fact that such provisions are in place and understands that
European legal55 or
these would apply in accordance with the provisions
international standards in force.
 
Reference is made to the comments made in point a., above, with regard to the
issue of a dual legal basis for the communication of an extract from the criminal record.
 

B. On type 2 background check procedures

 

It should be noted that the Attorney General may take cognizance56 of or communicate
the “criminal record” to the Minister of Justice57 in the context of procedures for the purposes of
recruitment covered by:

-
-

-
-

article 16 of the amended law of 9 December 1976 relating to the organization of the notariat 58;
Article 11 paragraph (3) of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and
sports betting59:
articles 76 and 77 of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on the organization of the judiciary 60;
Article 90 bis of the amended law of 7 November 1996 on the organization of
administrative courts61;

                                                           
54 Article 1 point 7) of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 2016 provides that: “[t]he bulletin No. 2 may be issued on request and
with the express agreement in writing or electronically of the person concerned: (…) to the Minister having Justice in his attributions
for the instruction of: requests relating to experts, translators and sworn interpreters (…)”
55 V. the computerized system for the exchange of information on criminal records (the "ECRIS system")
56 V. articles 4, 6, 7, 11 and 15 of the bill
57 See article 5 of the bill
58 Section 4 of the bill
59 Article 5 of the bill (regarding authorization to exercise employment in connection with games of chance)
60 Article 6 of the bill
61 Article 7 of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

20/40

-

-

Articles 2 and 3 of the amended law of 4 December 1990 organizing the service
bailiffs62; and
Article 2 of the amended law of 7 June 2012 on legal attachés 63.

 

These articles provide that the Attorney General of State may take cognizance of the "record
judicial” or that the Minister of Justice may ask the Public Prosecutor to communicate
of the “criminal record” and if “the applicant is a national of a Member State of the Union
European Union or a third State, the Public Prosecutor may ask him to provide an extract from
criminal record or a similar document issued by the competent public authority of the
country of which he is a national.
 
The National Commission welcomes the fact that such details have been provided by the authors of the
law Project.
 
However, as regards the issuance of an extract from the Luxembourg criminal record, it is necessary to
regret that the criminal record bulletin number is not specified by the draft text.
 
In order to comply with the principle of foreseeability and precision to which any legal text must comply
or regulatory64, it is essential that the authors of the bill specify the bulletin number
of the criminal record which would be covered by the aforementioned provisions.
 
With regard to Article 11, paragraph (3), of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of
chance and sports betting, as amended by the bill, the National Commission infers
of the provisions of Article 1 point 7) of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 23 July 201665 that it would be
of newsletter No. 2. If this were to be the case, then this should be expressly stated in the
device under notice.
 
As regards the issuing of a criminal record certificate for nationals of another Member State
from the European Union or a third country, the CNPD understands that it is the applicant who will provide
said document directly.
 
Unlike the Type 1 background check procedure, the provisions relating to
the type 2 background check procedure do not specify that, if applicable, the
Minister of Justice may “send a reasoned request to the Attorney General of State with a view to

                                                           
62 Article 11 of the bill
63 Article 15 of the bill
64 In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in legal
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL
n"47413/06], § 228-229, December 4, 2015
65 Article 1 point 7) of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 2016 provides that “bulletin N°2 can be issued on request and with
the express agreement in writing or electronically of the person concerned to the Minister having Justice in his attributions for
processing requests relating to games of chance”
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

21/40

obtaining an extract from the criminal record from the competent authority of the Member State whose
applicant for nationality”.
 
There is therefore reason to wonder about the reasons for such differences and whether a standardization of
all three procedures on this point would not be appropriate.

 

C. On type 3 background check procedures

 

These procedures refer to background check or “checking” procedures.
of good repute” relating to approvals for adoption services66, authorizations to operate
games of chance67, authorizations relating to private security and
supervision68, and to the authorisations, permits or approvals provided for by the amended law of 15 March
1983 on arms and ammunition69.
 

has. On the communication of bulletin N°1 of the criminal record

 
With respect to applications for adoption service licenses, the draft
law provides that bulletin No. 1, as referred to in the amended law of March 29, 2013 relating to
the organization of the criminal record, may be consulted, if necessary, by the State prosecutor.
 
However, the bulletin N°1 of the criminal record informs the complete statement of the inscriptions applicable to
the same person and can only be issued to the authorities listed in Article 6 of the amended law
of March 29, 2013 on the organization of criminal records. This bulletin is, for example, issued
to the judicial authorities in the context of criminal proceedings.
 
The authors of the bill justify such communication taking into account “the obligation of the State
to guarantee in all circumstances the well-being and the rights of the child, the procedure of
criminal record check is intended to inform the Minister of Justice of the
seriousness, integrity and behavioral aptitude of those responsible for the adoption service,
license applicant. The opinion of the State prosecutor must therefore allow an assessment
based on objective elements and as complete as possible through consultation of the
bulletin number 1 of the criminal record, informing all the offenses of the person
applicant”70.

 

Without prejudging the merits of such communication, such derogation should nevertheless
be further justified by the authors of the bill. It is, in fact, difficult to assess whether
such communication would respect the principle of data minimization in the absence of

                                                           
66 Article 12 of the bill
67 Article 5 of the bill (regarding the authorization to operate games of chance)
68 Article 14 of the bill
69 Section 9 of the bill
70 V. “Ad article 12” of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

22/40

 

 
 
 

clarification of the criteria on which the Minister of Justice would base himself to issue or refuse
such approval.

 

 

b. On the communication of the bulletin N ° 2 of the criminal record

With regard to authorizations to operate games of chance71, the bill under opinion provides for
that, to obtain the authorization to operate games of chance, the Public Prosecutor “may
also take note of the entries in the criminal record” in order to verify that the
“behaviour of the applicant, acting as a representative of a person
morally or individually is not incompatible with the operation of games of chance.
 
The device under opinion does not however specify the bulletin number of the criminal record which
would be consulted. Nevertheless, the National Commission infers from the provisions of Article 1, point
7) of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 201673 that bulletin n°2 of the criminal record would be
collected for the purposes of issuing authorizations relating to games of chance.
 
If this were to be the case, then this should be reflected in the device under notice in order to respect
the principle of predictability and precision to which any legal or regulatory text must comply 74.
 
With regard to the authorizations relating to the private activities of guarding and
supervision75, and the authorisations, permits or approvals provided for by the amended law of 15 March
1983 on arms and ammunition76, the texts under opinion, which are worded identically, do not
not expressly the communication of bulletin N°2 of the criminal record. Indeed, the provisions
under opinion provide that "the Attorney General of State communicates to the Minister a copy of the
court decisions which appear, where applicable, on bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record”.
 
If it appears from draft law n°7425 on arms and ammunition, in particular from article 15
paragraph (4) of the said bill, that bulletin No. 2 would be collected, this is not provided for by the
amended law of 12 November 2002 relating to private guarding and surveillance activities.
 

                                                           
71V. article 5 of the bill relating to article 11 paragraph (2) of the amended law of 20 April 1997 on games of chance and betting
sporty
72 See Article 11 paragraph (1) of the amended law of 20 April 1997 on games of chance and sports betting, as amended by
clause 5 of the bill
73 Article 1, point 7) of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 2016 provides that “bulletin N°2 can be issued on request and with
the express agreement in writing or electronically of the person concerned to the Minister having Justice in his attributions for
processing requests relating to games of chance”.
74 In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in legal
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL
n"47413/06], § 228-229, December 4, 2015
75 See article 14 of the bill
76 See article 9 of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

23/40

However, the National Commission deduces from the provisions of Article 1, point 7) of the Regulation
Grand-Ducal of 23 July 201677 that bulletin no. 2 of the criminal record would be collected for
authorizations relating to private guarding and surveillance activities.
 
Therefore, in order to comply with the principle of foreseeability and precision to which any
legal or regulatory text78, clarifications on this subject should be provided by the
authors of the bill with regard to the authorizations relating to the private activities of
guarding and surveillance.
 

vs. On the communication of an extract from a foreign criminal record

 
With regard to the communication of an extract from a foreign criminal record, it should be noted
that the procedures relating to approvals of adoption services or authorizations
to operate games of chance provides that “if necessary, the State prosecutor may request
obtaining the criminal record from the competent authority of the Member State” whose person
concerned has nationality.
 
There is reason to wonder about the use of the wording “if necessary” when this term
is vague and does not make it possible to understand what would be the situations where the communication
an extract from the criminal record would prove necessary or not.
 
Therefore, in order to comply with the principle of foreseeability and precision to which any
legal or regulatory text79, the CNPD considers that clarifications on this point should be made.
Moreover, for the sake of consistency of the bill as a whole, these should be
drafted in a manner similar to those referred to in the procedures referred to in points IV.2.
points A. and B. of this opinion.
 
In addition, it should be noted that another formulation is used for the procedures of
background checks for licensing purposes
deprived of guarding and surveillance80, and authorizations, permits or approvals provided for by
the amended law of 15 March 1983 on arms and ammunition 81.
 
In fact, articles 9 and 14 of the bill specify that the convictions handed down
abroad or by a criminal court of another Member State of the European Union, of a country
associated with the Schengen area or the European Economic Area should be taken into account

                                                           
77 Article 1, point 7) of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 2016 provides that “bulletin N°2 can be issued on request and with
the express agreement in writing or electronically of the person concerned to the Minister having Justice in his attributions for
examining requests for prohibited weapons and guarding”.
78 In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in legal
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL
n"47413/06], § 228-229, December 4, 2015
79 ibidem
80 See article 14 of the bill
81 See article 9 of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

24/40

during the integrity check. On this point, reference is made to the observations made by
the CNPD in its additional opinion of February 4, 2021 on draft law No. 7425 on weapons
and ammunition82.
 
In addition, the National Commission wonders about the reasons why formulations
different are used by the authors of the bill in relation to the communication
an extract from a foreign criminal record. The disparities between each of the said provisions are
a source of illegibility and legal uncertainty for the persons concerned.
 

3. On the processing of data relating to facts likely to constitute a

felony or misdemeanor, or relating to a criminal conviction for a felony or misdemeanor

 
In addition to taking cognizance of an extract from the criminal record, it should be noted that the
type 2 and 3 background check procedures are more intrusive than type
1, based solely on the communication of an extract from the criminal record. Indeed, the
type 2 and 3 procedures are also based on the facts:

-

-

likely to constitute a crime or misdemeanor which are the subject of a report or
a police report (B);
relating to a criminal conviction for a felony or misdemeanor (C).

 
Without prejudging the in concreto assessment that would be carried out in this matter, there is reason to regret
that neither the bill under opinion nor the comments on the articles specify which criteria or
what degree of seriousness of the background is taken into account by the Minister of Justice, the Minister
of Finance or the Public Ministry to assess the good repute of the persons concerned.
 
If the authors of the bill justify such intrusions when these elements are notably
intended to “verify that the behavior of the candidate is not incompatible with the exercise
duties and missions of notaries” or that “[i]t is important that judges and prosecutors
can (…) carry out background checks on staff as part of their
recruitment, given the sensitivity of the information brought to the attention of staff
judicial administration and the honesty required to deal with them with the confidentiality of
put” or because “[a]s public officers it must be guaranteed that the judicial officers
carry out their duties with the necessary integrity. This assessment must be made taking into account
account of criminal records" or that the verification of criminal records
is “intended to inform the Minister of Justice of the seriousness, integrity and aptitude
behavior of those responsible for the adoption service. ". These are not formulated
with enough detail.
 
However, in the absence of such details, it is difficult to assess whether the principle of minimizing
data would be respected. It should be recalled that by virtue of this principle, only

                                                           
82 See additional opinion of the CNPD of 04/02/2021, deliberation n°2/2021, the developments formulated under point I. 1. F. c.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

25/40

processed personal data that is strictly necessary for the performance of the
purposes pursued.
 

A. Introductory remarks

 

It should be noted that Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 14 and 15 of the bill specify that the
background checks will cover facts that may constitute a crime or misdemeanor.
 
Only articles 9, 12 and 14 of the bill specify that, in addition to the facts likely to constitute
a crime or misdemeanor, the verification will relate to the facts “referred to in article 563, point 3° of the Code
criminal offense relating to assault and minor violence”, “referred to in Article 1 of the amended law of
September 8, 2003 on domestic violence”.
 
It is also interesting to note that the authors of the bill specify in their commentary
of article 5 relating to authorizations to operate games of chance and to exercise a job in
relationship with games of chance, that only certain offenses seem particularly
relevant for refusing such authorisations, in particular “when it concerns an offense
criminal law in connection with money laundering, theft, cases of fraud, etc. ".
 
Therefore, would it not be possible, like articles 9, 12 and 14 of the bill, to indicate
with more precision on what crimes or misdemeanors relate to such checks?
 

B. On the facts likely to constitute a crime or an offense which make

the subject of a police report or report
 

It should be noted that type 283 background check procedures do not cover
only on the facts likely to constitute a crime or an offense which are the subject of a report
or a police report, if these facts are the subject of an ongoing criminal prosecution, excluding
facts that led to a decision of non-suit or classification without follow-up.
 
The National Commission wonders whether, a contrario, in the absence of clarification on this point, the
type 384 background check procedures include the facts leading to a
decision of non-suit or classification without follow-up. This deserves to be clarified by the authors
Bill.
 
With regard to the processing of data relating to such facts, there is particular
to draw the attention of the authors of the bill to the fact that “a record or a report cannot

                                                           
83 See the procedures referred to in Articles 4, 5 (authorization to exercise employment), 6, 7, 11 and 15 of the bill
84 V. the procedures referred to in articles 5, 9, 12 and 14 of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

26/40

are not the equivalent of a court decision having retained a person in the bonds of the
prevention and that the principle of the presumption of innocence must prevail. »85.
 
With regard to the facts which are the subject of an ongoing criminal prosecution, the authors of the project
of law should pay particular attention to the secrecy of the investigation. In this regard, there is reason to
note that only articles 5, 9 and 14 of the draft law specify that when the facts are covered
by the secrecy of the instruction only the data enumerated by these articles can be
communicated.
 
It should be noted that such details are not provided by Articles 4, 6, 7, 11,
12 and 15 of the bill. However, although these are procedures in which an investigation
administrative procedure is carried out by the General State Prosecutor and that an opinion of the latter is issued
at the end of these, should we not provide for specific provisions aimed at restricting the
content of such an opinion when facts are covered by the secrecy of the investigation?
 
In the absence of reasons justifying such differences between the aforementioned articles on this point, the
CNPD is of the opinion that a standardization of the provisions on this subject would be appropriate.
 
In addition, and as noted by the Council of State in its additional opinion relating to the draft
Law No. 7425 on arms and ammunition86, what would be the scope of the secrecy of the investigation in relation to
to the rules of non-contentious and contentious administrative procedure?

 

 

C. Facts relating to a criminal conviction for a felony or misdemeanor

It should be noted that type 2 verification procedures exclude facts relating to a
criminal conviction for a felony or misdemeanor for which rehabilitation has been achieved (a)
contrary to the type 3 procedure which, in the absence of precision, does not seem to exclude it
(b).
 
Furthermore, as a general remark, it is appropriate to question the contribution of the
communication of data relating to facts concerning a criminal conviction for a crime
or misdemeanor when the bill already provides for the communication of a criminal record
judiciary, see for some of the articles of the bill the communication of the decision appearing,
where applicable, to the criminal record87. Indeed, is it relevant to communicate decisions that
would not yet be final or not yet registered in the criminal record of the person
concerned?
 
 

                                                           
85 See additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020 relating to draft law No. 7425 on weapons and ammunition, document
No. 7425/08, developments under "Amendment 14".
86 See additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020 relating to draft law No. 7425 on weapons and ammunition, document
No. 7425/08, developments under “Amendment 14”.
87 See articles 9 and 14 of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

27/40

has. On type 2 background check procedures

 

The procedures referred to in the articles listed under sub-paragraph a) exclude facts relating to a
criminal conviction for a felony or misdemeanor and for which rehabilitation has not already been achieved
at the time of submitting the application.
 
Despite these clarifications, the bill does not indicate the reasons for which the data
relating to a criminal conviction for a felony or misdemeanor are necessary and relevant in order to
check the good repute of the person concerned. These clarifications are essential as the
communication of an extract from the criminal record already makes it possible to provide information on the
convictions pronounced against an applicant.
 
In order to comply with the principle of foreseeability and precision to which any legal text must comply
or regulatory88, it is essential that the authors of the bill specify the categories of
data that would be covered by the aforementioned provisions.
 
Are these only court decisions or any documents relating to a
criminal conviction for a felony or misdemeanor?
 

b. On type 3 background check procedures

 
Contrary to the procedures referred to under sub-paragraph a) above, the procedures referred to in the
Articles 5, 9, 12 and 14 do not specify whether the facts relating to a criminal conviction, for which
rehabilitation would have been achieved, are excluded by the said procedures. Only a limitation in
the time for these facts is specified by the said articles. Indeed, the articles all state that
“[T]he facts cannot have been committed more than five years before the introduction of the request of the
applicant, unless these facts have been the subject of a criminal conviction, in which case the period of five
years is increased to ten years, or when these facts are the subject of ongoing criminal proceedings”.
 
Justifications should be provided by the authors of the bill as to the reasons for
which data relating to a criminal conviction for a crime or misdemeanor is necessary
and relevant in order to verify the good repute of the data subject.
 
In addition, it should be noted that Articles 9 and 14 of the bill provide that upon request
“the State prosecutor communicates to the Minister a copy of the judicial decisions which appear in the case
applicable on bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record of the person concerned”. On this point, it is
referred to the developments of the National Commission in its additional opinion on
to Bill No. 742589.

                                                           
88 In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in law
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL
n"47413/06], § 228-229, December 4, 2015
89 See additional opinion of the CNPD of 02/04/2021, deliberation n°2/2021, point I. F. a. ii., page 16
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

28/40


Consequently, and in order to comply with the principle of foreseeability and precision to which any
legal or regulatory text90, it is essential that the authors of the bill specify the
categories of data which would be covered by the aforementioned provisions.
 
Furthermore, the CNPD wonders whether such provisions are necessary with regard to
all the authorizations referred to in articles 5 and 8 of the law of 12 November 2002 relating
to private guarding and surveillance activities? Would these provisions not be
necessary only for the cases where the personnel hired would have to request a permit
carrying arms? Moreover, is this not already provided for by article 11 of the law of 12
November 2002 relating to private guarding and surveillance activities? The authors of
bill also note that “the same conditions as those of the law on weapons and
ammunition therefore apply to the carrying of weapons in terms of guarding”91.
 

v.

On the processing of special categories of personal data

 

It follows from Articles 9 and 14 of the draft law that special categories of data within the meaning
of Article 9 of the GDPR would be dealt with by the Minister of Justice.
 
Indeed, data relating to the health of the applicants and more specifically to their "health
mental” would be collected by the Minister of Justice as part of the
verification of their integrity. With regard to the collection of such data by the Minister
of Justice in the context of article 9 of the bill, reference is made to deliberation n°42/2019
of 8 July 2019 from the CNPD92.
 
The CNPD still understands that data revealing political opinions, beliefs
religious or philosophical or trade union membership of a person requesting a
approval, permit or authorization, as referred to in the aforementioned articles, would be likely
to be exchanged between the Minister of Justice and the SRE. The authors of the bill specify,
in this regard, that the exchange of data between the SRE and the Minister of Justice has been introduced
given the "current political context in terms of violent extremist tendencies",
context which “demonstrates the importance for the authorities of being able to verify in more detail the
person who submits an authorization to acquire, purchase, import, export, transfer,
to transport, possess, carry, sell and transfer arms and ammunition”.

                                                           
90 In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in law
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL
n"47413/06], § 228-229, December 4, 2015
91 See comments of the authors of the bill “Ad article 14”
92 Opinion of the CNPD on draft law n°7425 on arms and ammunition, deliberation n°xx, v. the comments made under
item IV. “On the processing of data relating to criminal offenses and health” page 10.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

29/40

Furthermore, as part of the integrity check, as referred to in Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12
and 15 of the bill, it is not excluded that other special categories of data, such as
as data relating to racial or ethnic origin, genetic data, data
biometrics for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, data
concerning the sex life or sexual orientation of a natural person, may be
processed.
 
However, it should be recalled that in accordance with Article 9 paragraph (1) of the GDPR “[t]he processing
personal data that reveals racial or ethnic origin, political opinions,
religious or philosophical beliefs or trade union membership, as well as the treatment
genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of identifying a natural person
uniquely, data concerning health or data concerning sex life
or the sexual orientation of a natural person are prohibited", unless one of the conditions
referred to in paragraph (2) of that article applies.
 
The National Commission is of the opinion that the processing of special categories of data, when
administrative inquiries which would be carried out by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of
Finance or the Public Prosecutor, could be based on Article 9 paragraph (2), letter g) of the GDPR,
provided, however, that the conditions are met.
 
This article provides that “[t]he processing is necessary for reasons of important public interest,
on the basis of Union law or the law of a Member State which must be proportionate to the objective
pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for measures
appropriate and specific for the safeguard of fundamental rights and the interests of the
concerned person ".
 
However, it is clear that the bill does not seem to provide for "appropriate measures
and specific for the safeguard of fundamental rights and the interests of the person
concerned”. Consequently, the draft text does not seem to offer a sufficient legal basis
to process these special categories of data.
 
In order to make such data processing lawful, it is therefore essential that such
measures are defined in the bill under opinion.
 
It should also be expressly specified that special categories of data
could be collected even though this does not expressly result from reading the articles
4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 14 and 15 of the bill. Thus, it is suggested that the authors of the bill
are inspired by French legislation on weapons, and more specifically article R.312-
85 point VI of the CSI entitled "data and information from the administrative investigation". So

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

30/40

 

 
 
 

point, reference is made to the additional opinion of the National Commission on the amendments
Bill N°7425 on arms and ammunition93.
 
Furthermore, there is reason to question the need for such data processing with regard to
concerns all the authorizations covered by articles 5 and 8 of the law of 12 November 2002
relating to private guarding and surveillance activities? These provisions would not
they are not necessary only for the cases where the personnel would have to request a permit
carrying weapons?
 
However, in this respect, it already appears from the new Article 16, paragraph (2) of the draft law
no. 7425 that “[s]if the license to carry weapons is requested for a security guard within the meaning
of the amended law of 12 November 2002 relating to private security and
supervision, the medical certificate may be issued by one of the doctors referred to in points 1° and
2°, or by the competent occupational physician, after a favorable opinion from one of the physicians referred to in
points 1° and 2°. ".
 
The authors of the bill should therefore ensure that the provisions
under opinion and the provisions of article 16, paragraph (2), new of bill n°7425 on
weapons and ammunition.
 

VI.

On the methods of transmission of data resulting from the procedures of
criminal background check or “good repute check”

 
It should be noted that the methods of transmission of data resulting from the procedures of
background checks are not sufficiently specified or are not specified at all
all by the bill. It should also be noted that there is a lack of standardization between the
different provisions under opinion on this point.
 
Thus, it is apparent from the background check procedures referred to in Articles 4, 7, 11, 12 and
15 of the bill, that the data resulting from the administrative investigation would be transmitted via
opinion of the State Attorney General. These notices are transmitted to the competent authorities for the
appointment of a notary94 or a bailiff95, the recruitment of staff for the
judicial administration96, administrative courts97 and legal attachés98
or the issuance of a license for adoption services 99. It should be noted that

                                                           
93 Opinion of the CNPD on draft law n°7425 on arms and ammunition, deliberation n°2/2021 of 04/02/2021, v. observations
formulated under point IV. “On the processing of data relating to criminal offenses and health” page 10
94 Section 4 of the bill
95 Section 11 of the bill
96 Section 6 of the bill
97 Section 7 of the bill
98 Section 15 of the bill
99 Section 12 of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

31/40

only relevant and necessary data should be transmitted via this notice in order to
enable the competent authorities to assess the good repute of candidates or applicants.
 
For the procedures referred to in Articles 9 and 14 of the draft law, the data would be
communicated by the Grand Ducal Police, the Public Ministry or the SRE to the Minister of Justice
"in the form of all or extracts of minutes or police reports, judgments,
judgments, orders, or any other document or procedural act containing the information
concerned”. On this point, reference is made to the observations made by the Commission
national in its complementary opinion on the amendments of the draft law N°7425 on the
weapons and ammunition100.
 
However, no details are provided with regard to the methods of transmission.
data collected during the surveys referred to in Articles 5 and 6 of the bill.
 
The CNPD considers it essential that clarifications on these points be provided by the authors of the
bill and recalls that only necessary and relevant data may not be
communicated.
 
In any case, as mentioned throughout this opinion, it would be preferable for the
authors of the bill opt for a system that would be based on the communication of a notice
detailed statement of the Attorney General.

VII.

 
On the establishment of a monitoring system with regard to the verification of
good repute
 

The CNPD understands that a system for monitoring the condition of good repute would be put in place.
place, as reflected in sections 3, 9 and 14 of the bill.
 
With regard to sections 9 and 14 of the bill insofar as these are drafted in
Similarly, the National Commission refers on this point to its observations formulated in its
additional opinion on the amendments to draft law N°7425 on arms and ammunition101

 

Article 3 of the bill relating to the designation, in repressive and administrative matters, of
experts, translators and sworn interpreters, provides that the Minister of Justice "may
revoke” the sworn experts, translators or interpreters “in the event of breach of their
obligations or professional ethics or for other serious reasons. The revocation cannot
intervene only on the advice of the State Attorney General and after the person concerned has been admitted to
present their explanations.

                                                           
100 See additional opinion of the CNPD on the amendments to bill No. 7425, deliberation No. 2/2021 of 04/02/2021, v. them
comments made under point IV. “On the processing of data relating to criminal offenses and health” page 10
101 Additional opinion of the CNPD on draft law n°7425 on arms and ammunition, deliberation n°2/2021 of 04/02/2021, v.
the comments made under point I.2., page 19
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

32/40


The authors of the bill do not specify the operation of such a system. There is, therefore,
instead of wondering about the monitoring system that would be put in place if necessary. The prosecutor
General of State consult the so-called "JU-CHA" database proactively and regularly
in order to report, in the event of an incident, to the Minister of Justice any information likely to
lead to the dismissal of the persons concerned?
 
Furthermore, it should be noted that such provisions are not provided for other
background check procedures, should this be the case then this should be reflected
in the bill under notice.

 
VIII.

On the principle of data accuracy
 

In accordance with Article 5, paragraph (1), letter d) of the GDPR, personal data
must be “accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all reasonable measures must
be taken so that personal data which is inaccurate, having regard to the purposes
for which they are processed, are erased or rectified without delay”.
 
However, it should be noted that the device under opinion does not provide for any provision relating to the
updating of data obtained in the context of administrative surveys. However, taking into account
of the data collected, the authors of the bill should be drawn to the fact that it
there is a significant risk that data relating to a person whose case has been closed
without action or who has in the meantime been acquitted of an offense of which she has been accused are
still in the records of the administration, without any related update or rectification.

 
IX.

On the principle of purpose limitation
 

In accordance with the principle of purpose limitation, personal data must be
collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not to be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes.
 
With regard to the procedures which would not be carried out by the Public Prosecutor, there is
note that the transmission of data from files held by the Grand-Police
Ducale, the Public Ministry or the SRE to the Minister of Justice or the Minister of
finance for the purposes of an administrative investigation is very delicate and even risky and must therefore be
limited to exceptional and strictly limited situations.
 
Thus, the use of data for purposes other than those for which they were transmitted
to ministers, entails additional risks and seems a priori difficult to justify. A
such subsequent use should in any case comply with the conditions of Article 6,

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

33/40

 

 
 
 

paragraph (4), of the GDPR and be the subject of a law “at least as regards the essential elements of
matter” in accordance with Article 11, paragraph (3), of the Constitution102.
 
Therefore, similar to the provisions of Article 26, paragraphs (2) and (3), of the law
of 22 February 2018 on the exchange of personal data and information in
police matters103, should it not be provided in the bill under opinion that the data which
would be forwarded to the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Finance for investigation
administrative can only be used for the purpose for which they were transmitted
and supervise the transmission, if necessary, by the minister to another administration/a third party?
Shouldn't it also be provided for the opinions that would be transmitted by the Public Prosecutor's Office
to the authorities referred to in Articles 4, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the bill?
 

On the shelf life

X.
 

According to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR, personal data may only be
not be kept longer than necessary for the fulfillment of the purposes for
which they are collected and processed. Beyond that, the data must be deleted or
anonymized.
 
It should be noted that the authors of the bill have, on several occasions, indicated that “[t]his
data will only be kept for the time strictly necessary for the granting or refusal
of the authorization requested”104 or “the definitive refusal of the authorization or authorization
requested”105 or even “for the time strictly necessary to examine the
candidacy”106. It should be noted that these details are not repeated for each of the
items covered by the bill.
 
However, these details do not allow the National Commission to assess whether, in
In this case, the principle of limited data retention period would be respected.
 

                                                           
102 See in this sense, M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in law
Luxembourg public, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.471 to 472, n°619.
103 Article 26 paragraphs (2) and (3) provides that: “(2) The data and information transmitted may not be used by
the administration only for the purpose for which they were transmitted. They are erased as soon as their storage is no longer
necessary with regard to the purpose for which they were transmitted. (3) Further transmission of data and information
by the administration of the State to a third party requires the prior written consent of the person referred to in Article 18, paragraph 1
er, having transmitted the data and information concerned. Where applicable, Article 6(3) shall apply”.
104 See paragraph (5) of article 1251-3 of the New Code of Civil Procedure, as amended by article 2-3° of the bill,
paragraph (4) of article 1 of the amended law of July 7, 1971 relating to repressive and administrative matters, institution of experts,
sworn translators and interpreters and supplementing the legal provisions relating to the swearing in of experts, translators
and interpreters, as amended by article 3 of the bill, paragraph (4) of article 2 of the law of 6 May 1999 on mediation
penal, as modified by article 13 of the bill
105 See paragraph (6) of Article 11 of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and sports betting, as amended by
clause 5 of the bill
106 See article 90 bis of the amended law of 7 November 1996 on the organization of administrative courts, as amended
by section 7 of the bill
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

34/40

However, it is essential that clarifications on this subject be provided, all the more so in view of
the nature of the personal data in question. Thus, the shelf life should
be defined in the bill or it should at least specify the criteria that would be taken
into account in order to determine what is the proportionate retention period for each
category of personal data that would be collected
during investigations
administrative.
 
In addition and in order to take into account any appeals against administrative decisions
that would be taken under the bill, it is suggested that the authors of the bill draw inspiration
French legislation on weapons, which sets a retention period for weapons
data from the administrative survey. Article R.312-88 of the CSI provides that: “[t]he
personal data and information mentioned in d of 1° of I and in V and VI of
article R.312-85 [the data resulting from the administrative investigation] are kept for a
maximum duration of one year from the notification of the decisions mentioned in IV of the same
article or, in the event of a contentious appeal against these decisions, until it has been
definitively ruled on the dispute”.

XI.

 
On the rights of data subjects
 

According to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (a) of the GDPR, personal data must
be processed in a lawful, fair and transparent manner with regard to the data subject
(principle of legality, loyalty, transparency). This principle implies in particular that the Minister of
Justice, the Minister of Finance or the Public Ministry must comply with the provisions of
Article 13 of the GDPR for data collected directly from the data subject,
otherwise those of Article 14 of the GDPR, when the personal data have not been
collected from the data subject himself, i.e. those collected
indirectly with the Public Prosecutor, the Grand Ducal Police or the SRE.
 
Under these articles, the controller must provide the data subject with
information about the processing concerning him, in particular to guarantee processing
fair and transparent. It is specified that in cases where Article 14 of the GDPR would apply,
this information must be provided to the data subject no later than one month after
the controller has obtained the data.
 
For all practical purposes, it should be noted that French legislation on weapons provides,
in article R.312-90 of the CSI, a restriction of the rights of data subjects (see Chapter III
GDPR). This article provides in particular that: "[t]he rights to information, access,
rectification and limitation of the data mentioned in articles 13 to 16 and 18 of the [GDPR] and
in articles 104 to 106 of the aforementioned law of January 6, 1978 are exercised with the central service
arms or the territorially competent prefect, according to their respective attributions.
In order to avoid interfering with investigations, research or administrative proceedings or

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

35/40

 

 
 
 

proceedings or to avoid prejudicing the prevention or detection of criminal offences, the investigation
or prosecution thereof or the execution of criminal penalties or to protect the safety
public, the rights of access, rectification and limitation may be subject to restrictions in
application of article 52 and of 2° and 3° of II and III of article 107 of the law of January 6, 1978
aforementioned. »
 
Therefore, it is necessary to draw the attention of the authors of the bill to the fact that without derogation
explicit in the bill, these rights are all fully applicable. However, such
derogations could prove appropriate when the information obtained within the framework of
some background check procedures relate to investigations or instructions
ongoing criminal cases.
 
XII.

On the security of the processing
 

using measurements

accidental damage,

In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1) letter f) of the GDPR the personal data
must be “processed in such a way as to guarantee appropriate security of the personal data
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against the loss,
destruction or
techniques or
appropriate organizational (integrity and confidentiality)”.
 
Article 32 of the GDPR further provides that "the controller and the processor
implement the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk”. Such measures must be implemented in order to avoid
including unauthorized access to data, data leaks or changes
unwanted.
 
The CNPD is of the opinion that the protection of the confidentiality and security of personal data
personal nature is a major issue when processing special categories
of data insofar as their disclosure is likely to constitute serious prejudice
for the people concerned.
 
Thus, given the nature of the data processed in question, it is essential that such measures
security measures are implemented by the various data controllers in order to ensure the
privacy and data security.
 
Among these security measures, the National Commission considers it important that only
people who need it in the performance of their duties and professional tasks
are authorized to have access to the necessary data. It is interesting to note that in France,
articles R.234-1 to R.234-3 and R.236-6 of the CSI list the categories of authorized persons
to access the data resulting from the administrative inquiry.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

36/40

 

 
 
 

In this context, it is strongly recommended to define an access management policy, in order to
to be able to identify from the start the person or the service, within each administration
concerned, who would have access to the computer interface made available by the CTIE, and to what
specific data that person or department would have access to.
 
In addition, it is necessary to provide an access logging system. On this point, the
CNPD recommends that log data be retained for a period of
five years from their registration, after which time they are erased, except when they
are subject to a control procedure.
 
The CNPD also emphasizes the importance of proactively carrying out internal controls. In this
effect, it is necessary in accordance with Article 32, paragraph (1), letter d) of the GDPR to implement
implements a procedure “aimed at regularly testing, analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness of
technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of the processing”.
 
Finally, with regard to the data which would initially be subject to the law of August 1, 2018
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, the question arises of
the relationship, where applicable, between the provisions provided for in Article 28 of the said law and those
provided for in Article 32 of the GDPR.
 
XIII.

On the competent supervisory authority
 

There is reason to wonder which is the competent supervisory authority for
control and monitor compliance with the legal provisions provided for in the draft text, in
the absence of precision on this subject in the bill under opinion.

 

Indeed, there is some doubt as to whether the data, initially collected for the
needs of prevention, research, observation and prosecution of offences,
then forwarded by the Grand Ducal Police, the Public Ministry and the SRE to the Minister of Justice
or to the Minister of Finance in order to enable him to verify the good repute of a candidate,
applicant for a permit, authorization or approval referred to in the bill comes under the jurisdiction
the judicial control authority107 or that of the National Commission.

 

It should be recalled that paragraph (2) of article 40 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security provides that “the operations of
processing of personal data carried out by the courts of law, including
including the public prosecutor, and of the administrative order in the exercise of their functions

                                                           
107 Judicial supervisory authority as referred to in article 40 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

37/40

jurisdictional, whether for the purposes referred to in Article 1 of this law or for those
covered by the [GDPR], are subject to the control of the judicial supervisory authority”.

 

The authors of the draft law on the protection of individuals with regard to the
processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in security matters
national consider that “to determine the competence of one of the two supervisory authorities
[CNPD or judicial review authority], the decisive question will no longer be the purpose of the
data concerned, but whether the competent authority is involved in taking or
execution of a judicial decision, which is not the case for the police”108.

 

They further specify that "when for the processing of personal data
determined – falling within the scope of this bill – the question of the
competence of one of the two supervisory authorities arises, it would be necessary in principle to retain the
competence of the National Commission for Data Protection, unless the processing of
personal data concerned is carried out by a court in the exercise of its
judicial functions or by the public prosecutor, either in the exercise of his functions
jurisdictional, either upstream or downstream of its participation in decision-making
jurisdictional”109.

 

In this case, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance are not one of the
authorities referred to in article 40 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data with regard to
criminal law as well as in terms of national security, and are not likely to render a
judicial decision at the end of the administrative investigation but a decision purely
administration.

 

Therefore, the processing of data carried out by these ministers in the context of investigations
administrative, covered by the bill, could fall within the jurisdiction of the
National commission.
 
It is interesting to note that this solution was adopted with regard to the authority
competent to monitor and control the provisions of the law of 22 February 2018 relating to
the exchange of personal data and police information110.
 
Shouldn't the same solution be adopted with regard to the processing carried out by the
Public Prosecutor's Office when the latter initiates administrative investigations, as provided for by
the bill under notice?
 

                                                           
108 See parliamentary document no. 7168, “Ad article 41”, page 47.
109 See parliamentary document no. 7168, “Ad article 41”, page 47.
110 Articles 25, paragraph (1), and 28 of the law of 22 February 2018 on the exchange of personal data and information
in police matters.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

38/40

In order to remove any ambiguity on this point, the authors of the bill should complete
the device under notice accordingly.

 

For all intents and purposes, it should be noted that the competence of the CNPD with regard to
data processing carried out by the said ministers within the framework of the bill under opinion
in no way prejudges the competence of the judicial review authority with regard to the
communication of data by the Public Ministry to these ministers, as provided for in the draft
law.
 
XIV.

On the other laws covered by the bill but unrelated to the "control
of good repute"
 

The bill also intends to modify articles 1007-6 and 1036 of the New Code of
civil procedure as well as the law of December 30, 1981 on compensation in the event of detention
preventive ineffective and the amended law of March 2, 1984 relating to the compensation of certain
victims of bodily injury resulting from an offense and the repression of insolvency
fraudulent. It should be noted that these provisions do not relate to the control of
good repute.
 
With regard to the provisions under notice amending articles 1007-6 and 1036 of the
New Code of Civil Procedure, it should be noted that these provisions fall under the
missions carried out by the Public Ministry in civil matters.
 
The said articles also provide that the State prosecutor may, within the framework of these procedures
“to read the entries in bulletin N°1 of the criminal record” as well as, if necessary
where applicable, the “criminal record of the competent authority of the State whose parties to the hearing have
the nationality ". The authors of the bill are to be commended for such clarification.
 
The CNPD also understands that the authors of the bill intend to provide access through the
Public Prosecutor's Office to the so-called "JU-CHA" database in the context of the procedures referred to in
articles 1007-6 and 1036 of the New Code of Civil Procedure.
 
Without prejudging the merits of such access, the CNPD wonders, however, if it would not be more
appropriate to include such provisions in a legal text relating to the "JU-
CHA” and its use by the Public Ministry in the exercise of its missions?
 
With regard to article 2 of the law of December 30, 1981 on compensation in the event of
preventive detention ineffective, as amended by the bill, there is reason to salute the
clarifications made with regard to the data that would be processed in the context of
the investigation of the claim for compensation as provided for by the aforementioned law.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

39/40

 

 
 
 

Finally, with regard to article 9 of the amended law of March 2, 1984 relating to compensation
of certain victims of bodily injury resulting from an offense and the repression of
fraudulent insolvency, as amended by the bill, the authors of the
bill to provide a legal basis for the exchange of data between the Minister
of Justice, the Public Ministry and the Administration of Registration.
 
XV. Final remarks
 
It should be noted that the provisions of the bill under opinion which repeat article 5 of the
GDPR111 are likely to be superfluous. Indeed, the GDPR is, as a regulation
European, compulsory in all its elements and directly applicable in Luxembourg. The
National Commission takes the liberty of drawing the attention of the authors of the bill to the
problem related to the fact of partially or fully reproducing the text of a regulation
European in the internal legal order. Indeed, the Council of State regularly reminds in
its opinions the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union according to which Member States
members must not hinder the direct applicability of the regulations or conceal their nature
European112.
 
 
 
 
Thus decided in Belvaux on February 10, 2021.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
 
 
 
Tine A. Larsen
 
President

        Marc Lemmer
  Commissioner Commissioner

     Christopher Buschman
 

Thierry Lallemang
   Commissioner

                                                           
111 See articles 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 13 and 15 of the bill
112V par. ex. the opinion of the Council of State of July 17, 2020 on draft law no. 7537 relating to certain methods of application and the
sanction of Regulation (EU) No 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 promoting fairness and transparency
for companies using online intermediation services
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

relating to bill n°7691.

 

 

 
 
 

40/40

