 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
711.389.1
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

P r e s s e release

August 30, 2018

100 days of the General Data Protection Regulation - time for an initial assessment
 
 
This Saturday, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been in effect for 100 days.
After a lot about the new regulations and the problems that the users with the
Adjustment had been reported, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of information now a first balance sheet.
 
Privacy Complaints
The number of complaints lodged with the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
freedom of information has increased tremendously since May 25, 2018. In the months of May
by July 2018, our authority had received 1,380 data protection complaints from citizens
citizens. In the same period last year, we received only 344 such submissions
edit.
 
References to obvious and sometimes serious data protection violations that are not
citizens, but also, for example, by company data protection officers,
Reported journalists or companies are included in this statistic
not counted.
 
In the non-public area, the majority of complaints related to online services that
Information and deletion claims of customers not or not correctly
have complied. According to the GDPR, everyone has the right to be
company or an authority to find out whether personal data is stored there
for what purposes this is done, where this data comes from, to whom it is sent
are passed on and how long they are stored. In addition, the
DS-GVO Affected extensive deletion rights.
 
Consultation Requests
In the weeks leading up to May 25, 2018, the requests for advice that the Berliners
Officer for data protection and freedom of information by post, e-mail and telephone
achieved, strong too. From May 25, 2018, it was the employees of the
Authority no longer possible to adequately investigate the complaints processing because the
Telephones wouldn't stop. Therefore, our authority set up a central one for two months
DS-GVO telephone hotline for those seeking advice.
 
The topics of inquiries from companies, associations, freelancers as well
Individuals were diverse. They ranged from general inquiries to which
Measures to be taken with the new regulation are specific to their own
Legal or technical issues related to data processing. A theme,

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues
Office: Cristina Vecchi
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 0
Fax: 030 2155050

 



- 2 -

what caused a lot of uncertainty was the GDPR-compliant design
of websites and internet blogs. Many companies but also medical practices, pharmacies and
Law firms are also concerned with the question of whether they are obliged to do so
to appoint a data protection officer.
 
Unfortunately, these questions cannot be answered in general, as it always depends on
which data is actually processed in the specific case. The Berlin representative for
Data protection and freedom of information provides extensive information on this on their website
information material available. For example, the Notice Paper for Website and
Blog operators affected the possibility, step by step, the
Check data protection requirements for your own website.
 
The document is available at the following link:
https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/themen-utilisation-data-website.html

 

 
Data breach reports
The number of reports of data breaches has increased significantly since May 25, 2018. In
111 incidents were reported to us in the months of May to July 2018, whereas in
only recorded 12 reports in the same period last year.
 
 
Reports from company data protection officers
According to the DS-GVO, companies that order one or an operational
data protection officers are obliged to report this person to the supervisory authority.
To date, more than 7,000 companies have complied with this obligation.
 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information is posting on its website
Online form for reporting ready:
 
https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/datenschutzbeauftragte.html
 
European cooperation – Berlin is leading the first in Europe
cross-border case
In order to achieve the goal of creating a uniform level of data protection throughout Europe,
the European data protection authorities are obliged to cooperate under the GDPR,
when complaints concern such companies that offer their services in several EU countries
offer. If a supervisory authority is dealing with such a complaint, it is informed and
she has been involving her European colleagues since May 25, 2018. About the
The test result and any sanctions must be taken at the end of the procedure
regulatory authorities involved. Otherwise, the newly established European
Data Protection Committee concerned with the matter.
 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has the first in Europe
of these cross-border procedures.
 
sanctions
Three months after the GDPR came into effect, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and freedom of information have not yet imposed sanctions under the new law.
 

 



- 3 -

With every complaint, the facts of the case must first be investigated with the participation of the company
be fully clarified before a legal and possibly also a technical assessment is carried out
can. If violations that deserve sanctions are identified, the sanctioning body takes over
the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. A
The sanction procedure takes place in formally strict procedural steps. The way of one
Complaints about a fine notice therefore naturally take some time.
 
 
Maja Smoltczyk
"The enormously high number of complaints and the number of data breaches that my
Authority are reported, show that the public debate about the new set of rules
both citizens and authorities and companies for data protection
has sensitized. The handling of personal data takes place in large parts of the
population more aware. People put their basic right on informational
self-determination more often. That was an important concern of the European
legislature. I think on this point you can see the General Data Protection Regulation
already consider it a great success.”
 
 
 
 

 

