
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    09.11.2018
                                Results of the 96th Data Protection Conference - Stop E-Evidence Regulation! - Orientation guide "Direct advertising" Under the chairmanship of the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information North Rhine-Westphalia, Helga Block, the data protection conference on 7./8. November 2018 in Munster.
Among other things, the EU Commission's proposal for a so-called e-evidence regulation and the processing of personal data for direct advertising purposes were discussed. The data protection conference has positioned itself as follows on these topics: Stop the E-Evidence Regulation! Protect the rights of data subjects, do not worsen data retentionThe data protection conference appeals to all those involved in the legislative process to stop the EU Commission's proposal for an e-evidence regulation. With its proposal for an e-evidence regulation, the EU Commission wants an alternative to the formal legal assistance procedure create and enable the investigating authorities faster access to communication data. The law enforcement authorities of the EU member states are to be given the power to immediately oblige providers of telecommunications and internet services in other member states of the EU and also in countries outside the EU (third countries) to hand over inventory, access, transaction and content data companies based in Germany could be obliged to hand over data to investigative authorities in other EU member states, even though the crime being prosecuted is not a criminal offense in Germany. This could be, for example, an abortion that is permitted in Germany or a political expression of opinion if this is punishable by law in the requesting state. It is also to be feared that third countries will use the EU regulations as a blueprint for their own regulations. Those affected only have a legal remedy, if at all, in the requesting member state, whose legal system is usually foreign to them. The problem of the so-called " Data retention" of telecommunications data is significantly intensified when foreign law enforcement authorities gain direct access to such information. Guidance on the processing of personal data for direct advertising purposes With the General Data Protection Regulation, the previous data protection regulations for direct advertising are no longer applicable. The data protection conference explains in an orientation guide how the basic data protection regulation for direct mail is to be understood. The data protection conference is the coalition of the independent data protection authorities of the federal and state governments. The 96th conference took place on November 7th and 8th in Münster. The chair, which changes every year, organizes the meetings of the data protection conference and represents the conference externally.
More informationResolution e-Evidence RegulationDirect Mail Guidance
                                return
                            



