

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of publicly accessible data (the company Úspěch Online s.r.o.)



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the subject of which was the processing of personal data contained in the insolvency register. He focused mainly on the legal title for the further processing of this personal data and also examined the initiative regarding the realization of the right to erasure.



The controlled person on the website www.insolvencni-rejstrik.cz offered portal visitors a service in the form of information about persons in insolvency proceedings. The Office found that the controlled person processes all personal data published in the register without a legal title. The seriousness of the interference with the rights of data subjects is increased by the fact that the controlled person does not use tools that prevent the indexing of the operated websites. Information about insolvency is thus easily available via Internet search engines.



Furthermore, the controlled person did not comply with the data subject's request for deletion of personal data pursuant to Article 17 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.



The controlled person violated the obligations set out in Article 6 (legal title for processing) and Article 17 (right to erasure) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 by the above-mentioned conduct. The Chairperson of the Office rejected the objections submitted by the inspected person against the inspection findings.



Given that the inspected person immediately corrected the objectionable condition, the Office did not impose corrective measures and waived the imposition of a fine.


The inspection was conducted by inspector PaeDr. Jana Rybínová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of the processing of publicly accessible data (the company Úspěch Online s.r.o.)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



