
Agenda

The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data of North Macedonia, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data of the Republic of Croatia and the German Foundation for International Legal Cooperation (IRZ) are organizing a kick-off meeting at which they will present the Twinning project "Providing support in the implementation of a modernized legislative framework for the protection of personal data", which will will be held at DoubleTree by Hilton Skoplje, Blvd. ASNOM no.17, Skopje, September 30, 2021 from 9:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. During this event, government officials, ambassadors of the European Union, Croatia and Germany in North Macedonia, project managers, as well as experts from the data protection authorities of North Macedonia, Croatia and Germany will present the goals of the project, the specific purpose of the project, the results that the partners in the project plan to achieve and the activities they will implement.
The goals of this project are to improve the protection of fundamental rights and the national system of personal data protection in the Republic of North Macedonia in accordance with the standards of the acquis of the European Union, as well as to improve the efficiency of the Personal Data Protection Agency in the implementation of a modernized framework for data protection. Also, on this occasion, the new Personal Data Protection Act (Official Gazette of the Republic of North Macedonia No. 42/20) will be promoted, which transposes the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The new Act on the Protection of Personal Data, as well as the GDPR, introduce significant changes: new definitions and concepts, impose new obligations on data controllers and processors, and strengthen data subjects' rights.
According to the Act on the Protection of Personal Data from February 2020, data controllers and processors had the obligation to harmonize their business processes with the aforementioned Act within 18 months from the date of entry into force, which means by the end of August 2021. With this in mind, we will also take this opportunity to highlight the obligations of the controller/processor, to inform citizens of their rights and to raise awareness of the importance of personal data protection among the general public.
Furthermore, we expect a presentation on the results of a survey conducted with data processing managers in North Macedonia https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/personal-data-protection-survey, and an interesting panel discussion with data protection experts from North Macedonia, Croatia and Germany.
We live in a fast-changing, data-driven world. Governments, data protection authorities, regulators, the private sector, public bodies, civil society and citizens should work together to simultaneously achieve respect for the fundamental rights of individuals and empower the growth of innovative digital business models. The right to protect personal data is a fundamental human right, but it is also an economic necessity, and without consumer trust in the way their data is handled, there can be no sustainable growth of the European data-based economy. This is why data protection is a central component of digital policies and strategies in the European Union.

