

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in the Visa Information System
UOOU-02798/20


By regulation of the European Parliament a
Council (EC) No. 767/2008 of 9 July 2008 on the Visa Information
system (VIS) and on the exchange of data on short-term visas between Member States
(regulation on VIS) the obligation to carry out periodic checks of the Visa is established
information system every four years. For this reason, the VIS control was included
to the control plan, namely at the Police of the Czech Republic, which is the main administrator from the point of view of the Czech Republic
competence within the VIS.

The purpose of the VIS is to improve implementation
common visa policies, consular cooperation and consultation between central
by visa authorities, by facilitating the processing of visa applications, will prevent the current one
submitting multiple visa applications to different member states (so-called "visa shopping"),
will facilitate the fight against fraud, will facilitate controls at border crossings on
external borders and on the territory of the European Union states and will help with identification
the presence of any person who does not meet or has ceased to meet the conditions for entry
or residence in the territory of the member states of the European Union. It then sets the conditions
and procedures for the exchange of data in applications for short-stay visas up to 90 days
residence, so-called Schengen visas.

The inspection focused in particular on
fulfillment of obligations arising from Regulation (EU) No. 767/2008 (regulation
on VIS), as well as from the general regulation. The Authority reviewed the procedures
relating to access to the VIS for insertions, changes, deletions and
data viewing (provision of Article 6 of the VIS Regulation), principles for the use of the VIS (Art.
7 paragraph 1 of the VIS Regulation) and the fulfillment of related obligations
to data security (Article 32 of the VIS Regulation). The control also focused
on the fulfillment of obligations in the field of professional training of workers who have
process personal data in the VIS (Article 28, paragraph 5 of the VIS Regulation), for management
records of processing activities (Article 30, paragraph 1 of the general regulation) and also on
implementation of the right to access, correct and delete personal data (Article 38 of the Regulation on
YOU KNOW).

The inspection did not reveal any violations
legislation.

Additional information: By creating
of the Schengen area and by the gradual accession of states to Schengen
agreement, further elaborated by the Schengen Implementation Convention, controls were abolished
at the internal borders of the Schengen area and thus also to remove obstacles
free movement.



In 1999 there was legislation
forming the basis of Schengen cooperation incorporated by the so-called Schengen Protocol
Treaty of Amsterdam into the institutional framework of the European Union, which was
Schengen cooperation moved to the level of the European Union. Regulations adopted after
on this date represent Union legal instruments valid for all members
states of the union.

Undoubtedly, the Schengen system
contributed to the simplification of interstate movement of citizens of member states and narrower
cooperation of individual countries, to ensure the effective functioning of the whole
however, the system needed to adopt the corresponding rules and that too
in the field of personal data protection. The Office for the Protection of Personal Data fulfills
in the area of Schengen cooperation, the task of the supervisory authority that it performs
monitoring compliance with relevant regulations and thus contributing to protection
fundamental rights of persons whose personal data are the subject of processing
within the Schengen area.



ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Police of the Czech Republic > Inspection of personal data processing in the Visa Information SystemView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



