 
 
 
 
 
 

711.444.1 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e m i t t e i l u n g 

9 August 2021 

Deficiencies on all levels: Berlin DPA confronts website operators with unlawful 
tracking 
 
Given the ongoing deficiencies in the use of tracking tools and third-party services on 
websites, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has 
launched a large-scale campaign. In the following days, about 50 Berlin-based organisations 
will receive a written request to bring tracking processes on their websites in line with the 
applicable data protection law. Otherwise, the supervisory authority will initiate formal 
investigation procedures, which can lead to an order or a fine.  
 
"There is no ambiguity in the law: if website operators want to track the behaviour of their 
users with the help of cookies and other technologies, they need a legal basis to do so," says 
Maja Smoltczyk, Berlin's Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. Even 
though many websites now feature multi-level cookie banners, they frequently fail to obtain 
effective consent.  
 
The use of tracking tools and third-party services involves the processing of personal data, at 
least the IP address of the user. Typically, this not only serves to analyse user behaviour, but 
also to create and enrich profiles about their overall internet use. In most cases, the data is 
transmitted to a large number of advertising networks around the world.  
 
"It follows from data protection law that it must be just as easy to refuse tracking as to consent 
to it. Refusal may not be more elaborate or even hidden," says the Commissioner for Data 
Protection. "In addition, consent requests are often embedded in incomplete or misleading 
information and labelling. How the website operators want to prove that the users have given 
their voluntary and informed consent with such a design is a mystery to me." 
 
In addition to individual complaints, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom 
of Information is also receiving an increasing number of tips concerning website tracking. The 
large number of tips not only shows the concerns of citizens, but is also an indicator of how 
many website operators are still struggling to comply with the legal framework.  
 
For their campaign, the supervisory authority documented the design features and precise 
data flows on the selected websites and confronted the operators with the specific deficits in 
data protection law. In its letters, the supervisory authority puts the documented facts in 
relation to the legal provisions and points out critical points in individual cases. Another 
significant challenge is the extent of tracking, which is based on legal grounds other than 
consent, despite the fact that the legal requirements for this are not fulfilled.  
 

 
Verantwortlich: Simon Rebiger 

Geschäftsstelle: Cristina Vecchi 

E-Mail: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de 
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219 
10969 Berlin 

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900 
Fax: 030 2155050 

 

 

 

 

    

- 2 - 

The notices were sent to companies whose cookie banners were found to be especially 
deficient, which have a comparatively large number of users or who may be processing  
sensitive data. Companies from various sectors are affected, in particular e-commerce, real 
estate, finance, social networks, legal services, software, health, education and comparison 
sites.  
 
The controllers were requested to immediately bring the data processing into compliance with 
data protection law. In each case, a follow-up documentation of the websites will take place, 
which may result in further action by the authority depending on whether past and/or ongoing 
violations are determined.  
 
"Our campaign complements the already ongoing investigations based on individual 
complaints and is a signal to Berlin website operators," says Maja Smoltczyk, Berlin 
Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. 

 

