 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Opinion  11/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Poland regarding the approval of the 
requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 
 

Adopted on 4 July 2022 

 

 

Adopted  

1 

Table of contents 

1 
2 

3 
4 
 

 

Summary of the Facts ................................................................................................................... 4 
Assessment ................................................................................................................................... 4 
2.1 
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ............................... 4 
2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 
PREFIX ............................................................................................................................ 6 
2.2.1 
GENERAL REMARKS ........................................................................................................ 6 
2.2.2 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ........................................................... 7 
2.2.3 
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ........................................................................................... 7 
2.2.4 
PROCESS REQUIREMENTS .............................................................................................. 8 
2.2.5 
2.2.6  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS ...................................................................... 9 
2.2.7 
FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS ........................................................................ 9 
Conclusions / Recommendations .................................................................................................. 9 
Final Remarks .............................................................................................................................. 10 

 

Adopted  

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3) While requirements for accreditation are subject to the consistency mechanism, this does not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not 

 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted  

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

3. 

The Polish SA (hereinafter “PL SA”) has submitted its draft accreditation requirements under Article 
43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 28 March 2022. The national accreditation 
body  (NAB)  will  perform  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  to  certify  using  GDPR  certification 
criteria. This means that the NAB will use ISO 17065 and the additional requirements set up by the XX 
SA,  once  they  are  approved  by  the  PL  SA,  following  an  opinion  from  the  Board  on  the  draft 
requirements, to accredit certification bodies. The PL  SA will perform accreditation of certification 
bodies to certify using GDPR certification criteria. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the PL SA has decided to resort 
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together 
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when 

 

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en  
 

Available 

par. 

39. 

at: 

4 

Adopted  

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

issuing accreditation. In this specific case, the Board notes that the PL SA is tasked by national law to 
carry  out  the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies.  To  this  end,  the  PL  SA  has  developed  a  set  of 
requirements  specifically  for  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  in  conjunction  with  a  set  of 
certification criteria that is yet to be formally approved. 

This assessment of PL SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 
Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore it will not make reference to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a 
result, the Board decided to, where relevant, point towards specific sections of the ISO Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the PL 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and 
not asking the PL SA to take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the PL SA, which are outside the scope of article 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 
2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a.  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

independence of the certification body 

b. 
c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  
d.  expertise of the certification body 
e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

Adopted  

5 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 
g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

10. 

a.  Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body need to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  PREFIX  

11. 

12. 

13. 

The Board acknowledges the fact that terms of cooperation regulating the relationship between a 
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for 
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and 
transparency,  the  Board  considers  that  such  terms  of  cooperation,  where  existing,  shall  be  made 
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.  

2.2.2  GENERAL REMARKS 

The Board notes that some terms, for instance section 7.4 of the draft requirements refer to “targets 
of  assessment”  instead  of  “targets  of  evaluation”  and  to  the  term  “assessment”  instead  of 
“certification”.  The  Board  considers  that  these  terms  are  not  in  accordance  with  the  Guidelines. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the PL SA to modify such terms so to bring them in line with the 
Guidelines.  

The  Board  welcomes  the  reference  “The  wide  range  of  ISO/IEC  17065/2012,  covering  products, 
processes and services, should not lead to lowering or substitution of GDPR requirements” in section 
1 of the draft requirements. However the Board is of the Opinion that the precedence of the GDPR 
over the ISO/IEC 17065/2012 should be made explicitly in the requirements, pursuant to Annex 1  

6 

Adopted  

14. 

The Board notes that in section 1 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the PL SA makes a 
distinction  between  controller,  processor  and  manufacturers  or  the  entity  marketing  a  service 
product. The Board’s understanding is that both manufacturers and the entity marketing a service or 
product are either controllers or processors, thus the Board is not concerned by this distinction.  

2.2.3  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION  

15.  With respect to section 4.1.2 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes that in 
paragraph 5 of this section, the requirement of the Guidelines “the certification program and other 
regulations must be observed and adhered to” is missing. Therefore, the Board recommends the PL 
SA to complete this requirement accordingly.  

16.  Regarding section 4.1.2 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes there is a 
reference  to  certification  body’s  obligation  to  “indicate”  the  consequences  to  the  Customer  in 
paragraph  9.  With  respect  to  this  requirement,  section  4.1.2  para.  9  of  the  Annex 
establishes that the consequences for the customer in those cases shall be addressed. The Board 
understands that the intention of the PL SA is to ensure that the client is aware of the consequences 
in those situations and of the potential options or actions that can be taken. However, the Board 
considers  that,  in  order  to  ensure  that  certification  agreements  accurately  reflect  not  only  the 
consequences  and  impact  on  the  clients,  but  also  the  potential  further  actions,  the  PL  SA’s 
accreditation  requirements  should  make  clear  that  simply  stating  the  consequences  without 
addressing the potential next steps won’t be sufficient. Thus, the Board encourages the PL SA to make 
clear that the customer should be aware of the consequences, the impact they have on them and the 
potential next steps that may be taken. 

17.  With  regard  to  the  section  4.3  of  the  draft  requirements,  the  Board  welcomes  the  inclusion  the 
reference on liability and finances “In addition to the requirement set out in point 4.3.1 of ISO/IEC 
17065/2012,  the  PCA  shall  ensure  on  a  regular  basis  that  the  Certification  Body  has  appropriate 
measures (e.g. insurance or reserves) to cover its liabilities.“ However the Board wish to highlight that 
the PL SA ommitted to include that the cover of liabilities refers to the geographical regions in which 
the  NAB  operates.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  the  PL  SA  to  add  this  element  to  this 
requirement so to align it with the Guidelines.   

18.  Regarding section 4.6 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the certification body is required 
to provide “1) all versions (current and previous) of the approved criteria used within the meaning of 
Article 42(5) of the GDPR (certification criteria) are published and easily publicly available, as well as 
all  certification  procedures,  generally  stating  a  relevant  period  of  validity  and  2)  information  on 
complaint and appeal procedures are made public in accordance with Article 43(2)(d) of the GDPR.” 
The Board encourages the PL SA to add in the requirements that this is information shall be provided 
at minimum, according to section 4.6 ISO/IEC 17065/2012.   

2.2.4  RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS  

19.  As a general remark, the Board considers that the expertise requirements for evaluators and decision- 
makers should be tailored taking into account the different tasks that they perform. In this regard, the 
Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  evaluators  should  have  a  more  specialist  expertise  and  professional 
experience in technical procedures (e.g. audits and certifications), whereas decision-makers should 
have a more general and comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data protection. 
Considering this, the Board encourages the PL SA to redraft this subsection taking into account the 
7 

Adopted  

different substantive knowledge and/or experience requirements for evaluators and decision-makers, 
rather than the years of experience. 

20. 

In section 6.1 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it is mentioned that “the certification 
body is responsible for making decisions even if it is assisted by sub-contractors”. Right below it is 
mentioned that the “subcontractors should not be involved in decision-making processes”.  The Board 
recommends the PL SA to modify this requirement so to clarify that when the certification body uses 
subcontractors the certification body is the one responsible for the decision-making.    

2.2.5  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS  

has 

Seal 

been 

Protection 

21.  With regard to section 7.1(2) of the draft requirements, the Board underlines that, even when an EU 
Data 
approved, 
the certification body still has to notify the relevant CSAs before operating it in a new Member State 
from a satellite office. This is especially relevant, considering that accreditation of a certification body 
granting European Data Protection Seals may have to be carried out in each of the Members States 
where the certification body is established. 3 However, it shall be noted that the CSAs should be 
notified even in those cases in which the operation of an EU Data Protection Seal in a new Member 
State does not require a new accreditation. Therefore, the Board recommends the PL SA to include 
the above-mentioned reference. For example, the draft requirements could state the following (see 
proposed amendments in italics): "If the certification body intends to act in other Member States, it 
shall  notify  and,  when  necessary,  obtain  the  necessary  approval  from  the  relevant  competent 
authorities, including for the operation of a European Data Protection Seal in accordance with Article 
42(5) of the GDPR”. 

22. 

Similarly,  in  the  same  section,  the  Board  encourages  the  PL  SA  to  bring  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements in line with the Guidelines, by adding “from a satellite office”, that is currently missing 
from the draft.  

23.  Concerning paragraph 4 of section 7.1(4) and 7.2(4) of the draft requirements of the PL SA’s, the Board 
notes that  It should be clear that such investigation should be linked with the scope of certification 
and the target of evaluation. Therefore, the Board recommends that the PL SA amend its requirement 
accordingly, by specifying that the investigation should be linked to the scope of certification and the 
target of evaluation. 
 In section 7.4(1) the Board encourages the PL SA to add the missing term “concerned” before the data 
subjects so to bring this requirement in line with the Guidelines.  

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

In section 7.4(2) the Board encourages the PL SA to replace the term “applicants” with “controller and 
processor”.  

In  section  7.4(2)  the  Board  notes  that  this  reference  “However,  the  certificate  itself  will  not  be  a 
sufficient proof and the Certification Body shall be obliged to verify compliance with the criteria in 
relation to the object of the assessment” misses an element provided in the criteria (i.e. that this is not 
sufficient to completely replace partial evaluations). The Board recommends the PL SA to add this 
element to the draft requirements so to bring them in line with the Guidelines.  

In the same section, the last part of the paragraph from the Guidelines is missing “...a certification 
statement or similar certification certificates should not be considered sufficient to replace a report’.” 
The Board recommends the PL SA to complete the requirement accordingly.  

8 

Adopted  

28. 

29. 

In section 7.8 “directory of certified products” the Board recommends the PL SA to modify the draft 
requirements  and  clearly  state  that  the  certification  body  shall  inform  not  only  the  Supervisory 
authority of the reasons for granting or revoking or refusing the requested certification, but also any 
other competent supervisory authorities. 

The Board welcomes, in section 7.10 of the draft accreditation requirements, the inclusion of personal 
data  breaches  and  infringements  of  the  GDPR  in  the  list  of  changes  that  can  affect  certification. 
However, in order to ensure clarity, the Board encourages the PL SA to specify that the data breaches 
or  infringements  of  the  GDPR  shall  be  taken  into  account  only  inasmuch  as  they  relate  to  the 
certification. 

30.  With regards to the section 7.11  of the draft accreditation requirements on “termination, reduction, 
suspension or withdrawal of certification”, regarding the obligation of the certification body to inform 
the supervisory authority of the measures taken about the continuation, restriction, suspension and 
revocation of certification, it is not specified that this should be in writing.  The Board thus encourages 
the  PL  SA  to  clarify  this  requirement  by  adding  that  this  information  obligation  will  take  place  in 
writing.  

2.2.6  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

31.  With  regard  to  section  8  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  on  “management  systems 
requirements”  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board  notes  that  the  below  two 
paragraphs of the Guidelines (section 8) are missing:  

1. These management principles and their documented implementation must be transparent and be  
disclosed by the accredited certification body pursuant in the accreditation procedure pursuant to  
Article 58 and thereafter at the request of the data protection supervisory authority at any time during  
an investigation in the form of data protection reviews pursuant to Art. 58(1)(b) or a review of the  
certifications issued in accordance with Article 42(7) pursuant to Article 58(1)(c).  

2. In particular, the accredited certification body must make public permanently and continuously 
which certifications were carried out on which basis (or certification mechanisms or schemes), how 
long the certifications are valid under which framework and conditions (recital 100). 

Thus  the  Board  recommends  the  PL  SA  to  add  these  two  paragraphs  so  to  complete  the  draft 
requirements.  

2.2.7  FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS 

32.  With respect to 9.3.1 of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board encourages to clarify that it 

is the responsibility of the certification body and add not only customers but also applicants.  

 

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

33. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the PL  Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

34.  Regarding ‘general remarks’, the Board recommends that the PL SA: 

9 

Adopted  

1)  completes the requirement of section 4.1.2 (paragraph 5) by adding that the “certification 

program and other regulations must be observed and adhered to it”.  

2)  adds  to  section  4.3  of  the  requirements  that  the  cover  of  liabilities  refers  also  to 

geographical  regions that the NAB operates.  

35.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the PL SA: 

1)   modifies the requirement of section 6.1 so to clarify that when the certification body uses 

sub-contractors the certification body is the one responsible for the decision-making. 

36.  Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the PL SA: 

1)  includes a reference in section 7.1(2)  to the fact that even when an EU Data Protection 
Seal  is  approved,  the  certification  body  still  has  to  notify  the  relevant  CSAs  before 
operating in a new Member state from a satellite office. 

2)  amends the requirement of section 7.1(3) and 7.2(4) by specifying that the investigation 

should be linked to scope of certification and target of evaluation. 

3)  includes in section 7.4(2), in addition to the reference “However, the certificate itself will 
not be a sufficient proof and the Certification Body shall be obliged to verify compliance 
with the criteria in relation to the object of the assessment”, that this is not sufficient to 
completely replace partial evaluations.  

4)   completes  the  last  paragraph  of  the  same  section,  by  adding  that  “...a  certification 
statement  or  similar  certification  certificates  should  not  be  considered  sufficient  to 
replace a report’.” 

5)  modifies the draft requirements in section 7.8 and clearly state that the certification body 
shall inform not only the Supervisory authority of the reasons for granting or revoking or 
refusing the requested certification, but also any other competent authorities. 

37.  Regarding ‘management system requirements’, the Board recommends that the PL SA: 

1)  adds, in section 8 of the draft requirement, the two paragraphs, that comparing to the 

Guidelines, section 8 are missing.  

4  FINAL REMARKS 

38. 

This opinion is addressed to the Polish Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

39.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the PL SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within 
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow the 
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
opinion, in whole or in part.  

40. 

The PL SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

10 

Adopted  

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted  

11 

