 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
Opinion  16/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Slovenia regarding the approval of the 
requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct monitoring 
body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 
 

Adopted on 4 July 2022 

 

 

Adopted  

1 

Table of contents  

 
 

 
 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ..................................................................................................................... 4 
ASSESSMENT ........................................................................................................................................ 4 
General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements ...... 4 
 
 
Analysis of the SI SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies .... 5 
GENERAL REMARKS .............................................................................................................. 5 
 
INDEPENDENCE .................................................................................................................... 6 
 
 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ......................................................................................................... 7 
EXPERTISE ............................................................................................................................. 7 
 
 
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .................................................................... 7 
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING ............................................................................... 7 
 
COMMUNICATION WITH THE SI SA ...................................................................................... 8 
 
 
REVIEW MECHANISMS ......................................................................................................... 8 
SUBCONTRACTORS ............................................................................................................... 8 
 
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ................................................................................................ 8 
FINAL REMARKS .................................................................................................................................... 9 

 

Adopted  

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of 
the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 
95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1)  The  main  role  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (hereinafter  “the  Board”)  is  to  ensure  the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard to 
the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during 
the accreditation of a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory authority. Even though the 
GDPR does not directly impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote consistency.  
The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the competent SAs to draft 
their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies based on article 41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s 
“Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter 
the  “Guidelines”),  using  the  eight  requirements  as  outlined  in  the  guidelines’  accreditation  section 
(section 12); secondly, providing the competent SAs with written guidance explaining the accreditation 
requirements; and, finally, requesting the competent SAs to adopt the requirements in line with this 
opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies carry 
out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent  manner, 
thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, contributing to 
the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body (or 
bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable of 
effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term “accreditation”. However, article 41 
(2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. There are a 
number of requirements, which should be met in order to satisfy the competent supervisory authority to 
accredit a monitoring body. Code owners are required to explain and demonstrate how their proposed 
monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2) GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

 

Adopted  

3 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should take 
into consideration the code’s sector or specificities. Competent supervisory authorities have discretion 
with  regard  to  the  scope  and  specificities  of  each  code,  and  should  take  into  account  their  relevant 
legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect 
the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of conduct and 
their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the 
consistency  mechanism.  Notably,  in  the  Guidelines,  the  Board  has  clarified  that  even  though  the 
accreditation of a monitoring body applies only for a specific code, a monitoring body may be accredited 
for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The Slovenian Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “SI SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 28 March 2022.  

 

  ASSESSMENT 
  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation section 
of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency and a correct 
application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

All codes covering non-public authorities and bodies are required to have accredited monitoring bodies. 
The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up of codes 
of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of the specific 

Adopted  

4 

features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and  medium  sized 
enterprises.” (Article 40 (1) GDPR).  Therefore, the Board recognises that the requirements need to work 
for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing various interests at stake and 
covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

5. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging the 
SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

6.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the SI 

SA to take further action.  

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the SI SA, which are outside the scope of article 41 
(2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national legislation 
should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

  Analysis of the SI SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring 

bodies 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article 41 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a monitoring body need to address 

in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities per Article 

41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation of a 
body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

The Board notes that on 22 February 2022, “the Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for 
transfers” were adopted. These guidelines do not add any additional requirements for the accreditation 
of  monitoring  bodies  that  monitor  codes  of  conduct  intended  for  international  transfers.  Rather,  the 
guidelines  provide  further  specifications  of  the  general  requirements  established  by  the  Guidelines 
1/2019 (Section 12) taking into account the specific context of international transfers2. For the sake of 
clarity, the Board recommends the SI SA to add a reference to the above-mentioned guidelines, which are 
relevant in the context of monitoring codes of conduct intended for international transfers. 
 
 For  the  sake  of  consistency,  the  Board  encourages  the  SI  SA  to  adjust  the  terminology  used  in  the 
requirements to the one used in the Guidelines, this applies in particular to the following terms. This 
applies in particular to sections 1.2.1 and 4.2, where it should be referred to the ‘’expected number and 
size of the code members, as well as the complexity or degree of risk of the relevant data processing’’.  In 
addition, section 4.2 should refer to the need for monitoring bodies to ‘’actively and effectively monitor 
compliance’’, as well as the need for review procedures to include ‘’specific incidents’’. Moreover, section 

2 See Section4.2 of the EDPB Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfers 

 

Adopted  

5 

4.3 should refer to ‘’annual inspections’’ and ‘’regular reporting’’. Finally, the term ‘’corrective measures’’ 
should be used instead of ‘’measures’’ in sections 4.5 and 5.5.  

11.  Moreover, the Board is of the opinion that internal monitoring bodies cannot be set up within a code 
member,  but  only  within  a  code  owner.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  that  this  is  clarified  and 
reflected in the text of the draft accreditation requirements. In addition, the Board encourages the SI SA 
to  include  either  in  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  or  in  the  complementary  guidance  to  the 
requirements  examples  of  what  may  constitute  an  internal  monitoring  bodies  (i.e.  ad  hoc  internal 
committee or separate department within the organisation of the code owner).  

 

INDEPENDENCE 

12.  With  respect  to  the definition  of  independence,  the  Board  encourages  the  SI  SA  to  elaborate  what 
independence means. To ensure consistency, such clarification could rely on the wording agreed by the 
Board in the previous opinions, by specifying that the rules and procedures shall allow the monitoring 
body to perform the monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct in complete autonomy, without 
being  directly  or  indirectly  influenced nor  subject to  any  form  of  pressure  that  might  affect  its 
decisions.  

13.  As regards the legal status and decision-making process of the SI SA’s draft accreditation requirements 
(section 1.1), the Board acknowledges the duty of independence of the monitoring body from the code 
owner and the ‘’other subjects’’ to which the code applies. In this regard, the Board encourages the SI SA 
to clarify which are the ‘’other subjects’’ that might influence the decisions of the monitoring bodies by 
referring to ‘’the code members, the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies and the code 
owner itself’’ (Paragraph 63 of the Guidelines).  

14.  With  regard  to  the  same  section,  last  sentence,  the  Board  encourages  the  SI  SA  to  clarify  that  the 
requirement  to  demonstrate  the  implementation  of  complementary  measures  applies  to  ‘’internal 
monitory bodies’’, which shall ensure that the independence of their ‘’monitoring activities’’ is not at 
stake. Furthermore, the Board encourages the SI SA to amend this section to reflect the requirement, as 
provided in paragraph 65 of the Guidelines, that the internal monitoring body has separate staff and 
management from other areas of the organisation.  

15.  Moreover, as the section 1.1.4 refers to the terms “undue” influence, the Board encourages the SI SA to 
delete the word “undue” considering that a monitoring body must be free not only from “undue” but 
from any external influence. 

16. 

17. 

Further, in section 1.2.2, a reference not only to financial resources but also to other resources should be 
mentioned. Therefore, the Board recommends that the SI SA require that the monitoring body should 
have access to adequate financial and ‘’other resources’’ to fulfil its monitoring responsibilities.  

Finally, with respect to internal monitoring bodies (section 1.2.4), the Board recommends the SI SA to add 
a requirement to prove that the internal monitoring body has a specific separated budget that is able to 
manage independently. 

18.  With  regard  to  section  1.3  of  the  draft  requirements,  the  Board  observes  that  the  reference  to 
organisational independence of the monitoring body is not entirely complete. In particular, the Board 
notes that the monitoring bodies should be composed of an adequate number of personnel so that they 
are able to fully carry out the monitoring functions, reflecting the sector concerned and the risks of the 
processing  activities  addressed  by  the  code  of  conduct.  Personnel  of  the  monitoring  body  shall  be 
responsible  and  shall  retain  authority  for  their  decisions  regarding  the  monitoring  activities.  These 
organisational aspects could be demonstrated not only through the procedure to appoint the monitoring 

Adopted  

6 

body personnel, the remuneration of the said personnel, the duration of the personnel’s mandate, but 
also  through  contract  or  other  formal  agreement  with  the  monitoring  body.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends that the SI SA provide the above-mentioned references regarding the independence of the 
monitoring body in performing its tasks and exercising its powers, in accordance with the Guidelines. 

19. 

In addition, the Board encourages the SI SA to, in line with what is mentioned under paragraph 14 of this 
Opinion, amend the requirement in section 1.3.4 in order to reflect the need for internal monitoring 
bodies to have separate staff and management. 

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

20.  As a general remark in this section, the Board is of the opinion that, for practical reasons, more detailed 
guidance as to in which situations a conflict of interest could arise might be helpful. An example of a 
conflict of interest situation would be the case where personnel conducting audits or making decisions on 
behalf of a monitoring body had previously worked for the code owner, or for any of the organisations 
adhering to the code. Therefore, the Board encourages the SI SA to add some guidance, similar to the one 
provided in this paragraph. 

21.  Moreover, the Board encourages the SI SA to clarify in section 2.3 that the staff chosen by the monitoring 

body or other body should be ‘’independent of the code member’’. 

  EXPERTISE 

22.  With  regard  to  section  3.1,  the  Board  acknowledges  the  requirement  for  the  monitoring  body  to 
demonstrate that it has expertise in relation to the specific data processing activities addressed by the 
code. However, as agreed by the Board in the previous opinions, other factors such as the size of the 
sector concerned, the different interests involved and the risks of these processing activities should be 
taken  into  account.  The  Board  therefore  recommends  that  this  is  clarified  in  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements. 
  

23.  Moreover, the Board notes that SI SA’s expertise requirements do not differentiate between staff at the 
management level and, therefore, in charge of the decision-making process, and staff at the operating 
level, conducting the monitoring activities. In this regard, the Board encourages the SI SA to clarify in 
section 3.2 which requirement should be met by the staff performing the monitoring function and the 
personnel making the decisions.  

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

24.  Regarding section 4.1, the Board notes that when new members join the code, the monitoring body 
should, in any case, have a procedure in place to verify that the processing of personal data by these 
members falls within the scope of the code in question. Therefore, the Board encourages the SI SA not to 
formulate this provision as an example.  

25. 

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

The  Board  observes  that  section  5.5  of  the  SI  SA’s  draft  accreditation  refers  to  the  obligation  of  the 
monitoring body to inform the SA of the measures taken and the reasons for taking them. In line with 
paragraph 77 of the Guidelines, the Board recommends that the SI SA clarify that this communication 
should be made ‘’without undue delay’’, and provide that this notification should be made to ‘’ the code 
member, the code owner, the competent SA and, where required, all concerned SAs’’. 

26.  Regarding section 5.8 of the SI SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes that the monitoring 
body shall, on a regular basis, publish statistical data with the results of the monitoring activities. Without 

Adopted  

7 

prejudice  to  national  legislation,  the  Board  encourages  the  SI  SA  to  amend  this  requirement  so  that 
decisions are published when they relate to repeated and/or serious violations, such as the ones that 
could  lead  to  the  suspension  or  exclusion  of  the  controller  or  processor  concerned  from  the  code, 
otherwise publication of summaries of decisions or statistical data should be considered adequate. 

  COMMUNICATION WITH THE SI SA 

The Board understands that section 6.1 of the requirements refers to the information that the monitoring 
body  will  provide  to  the  SI  SA  upon  request.  The  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  requirement  to 
communicate ‘’any actions’’ need to address such areas as: actions taken in cases of infringement of the 
code and the reasons for taking them (article 41 (4) GDPR), periodic reports, reviews or audit findings. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the SI SA to clarify this requirement accordingly. 
 
In addition, the Board recommends that the SI SA clarify the notion of ‘’substantial changes’’ in section 
6.2. In particular, it should be specified that substantial changes include but are not limited to any changes 
that impacts the ability of the monitoring body to perform its tasks in an independent, impartial and 
efficient manner. In addition, it should be clarified that not only the above-mentioned changes but also 
the one listed in section 6.3 are to be communicated to the SI SA without undue delay. Finally, the Board 
encourages the SI SA to clarify in its draft accreditation requirements the notion of “any changes to the 
basis of accreditation” referred to in subsection 6.3, point c.  

  REVIEW MECHANISMS 

The draft accreditation requirements (section 7.1, second sentence) refer to the possibility for any other 
entity referred to in the code to be granted an active and participative role in the code review process. 
The Board notes it is the role of the code owner to ensure the continued relevance and compliance of the 
code of conduct with applicable legislation. Whilst the monitoring body is not responsible to carry out 
that task, it shall contribute to any review of the code. The Board therefore encourages the SI SA to specify 
that the monitoring body shall apply and implement these updates, amendments, and/or extensions to 
the Code on behalf of the code owner. 

In addition, the Board encourages the SI SA to specify in section 7.4 that the annual report prepared by 
the monitoring body should include reviews and/or changes made to the code.  

  SUBCONTRACTORS  

In relation to section 9.3, the Board encourages the SI SA to better clarify that notwithstanding the sub-
contractor’s responsibility and obligations, the monitoring body is always the ultimate responsible for the 
decision-making and for compliance. 
 
Furthermore, the Board recommends that the SI SA clarify the notion of ‘’substantial changes’’ in section 
9.2., in line with what is mentioned under paragraph 28 of this Opinion.  

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

9. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Slovenian Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

10.  Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the SI SA: 

Adopted  

8 

- 

- 

to add a reference to the Guidelines 04/2021, which are relevant in the context of monitoring codes 
of conduct intended for international transfers. 
clarify in the text of the requirements that internal monitoring bodies cannot be set up within a code 
member, but only within a code owner. 

11.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the SI SA: 

-  provide in section 1.1.4 the requirement for monitoring bodies to have access to adequate financial 

- 

- 

and ‘’other resources’’ to fulfil their monitoring responsibilities. 
add in section 1.2.4 a requirement to prove that the internal monitoring body has a specific separated 
budget that is able to manage independently. 
include  in  section  1.3  the  references  mentioned  in  paragraph  18  of  this  Opinion  concerning  the 
independence of the monitoring body in performing its tasks and exercising its powers. 

12.  Regarding expertise the Board recommends that the SI SA: 

- 

clarify that other factors such as the size of the sector concerned, the different interests involved and 
the risks of these processing activities should be taken into account in order to assess the level of 
expertise of the monitoring body. 

13.  Regarding transparent complaint handling  the Board recommends that the SI SA: 

- 

clarify  that  the  obligation  of  the  monitoring  body  to  communicate  the  measures  taken  and  the 
reasons for taking them should take place ‘’without undue delay’’, and provide that this notification 
should be made not only to the SA but also to ‘’the code member, the code owner, the competent SA 
and all concerned SAs’’. 

14.  Regarding communication with the SI SA  the Board recommends that the SI SA: 

- 

clarify in section 6.2 that substantial changes include but are not limited to any changes that impacts 
the ability of the monitoring body to perform its tasks in an independent, impartial and efficient 
manner, and specify that the changes listed in section 6.3 are to be communicated to the SI SA without 
undue delay. 

15.  Regarding legal status  the Board recommends that the SI SA: 

- 

clarify  the  notion  of  ‘’substantial  changes’’  in  section  9.2  in  line  with  what  is  mentioned  under 
paragraph 28 of this Opinion. 

  FINAL REMARKS 

16. 

This opinion is addressed to the Slovenian supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

17.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the SI SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. Within 
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to follow the 
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
opinion, in whole or in part.  

Adopted  

9 

18. 

The SI SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, which 
have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted  

10 

