
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    01/27/2021
                                Europe has the best data protection regime in the world - Kugelmann comments on new apps such as "Clubhouse" On the European Data Protection Day, on January 28th, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, Professor Dieter Kugelmann, comments and calls the General Data Protection Regulation the "worldwide best data protection regime". "The European Union has achieved great things in terms of data protection in recent years: With the General Data Protection Regulation, the world's best data protection regime was established," says Kugelmann. "The data protection standards are at a high level and the cooperation between the European Privacy Guard is getting better and better. Like a super new processor driving digitization, the General Data Protection Regulation has advanced Europe: the EU can act powerfully as a bastion of freedom and a protective wall against privacy attacks. It is becoming increasingly clear that the European path to digitization is unthinkable without data protection. The other approach, the US American, and the completely different approach, the Chinese, require a third, European way: This combines creative innovation with constructive data protection. It combines rapid digitization with effective data protection.”
Kugelmann shows the new questions that data protection officers ask themselves every day: “A few days ago, the news circulated that the new US President Joe Biden might not be allowed to take his “Peloton” training device into the White House. The pre-installed cameras and microphones are a data protection risk. The example shows that high-tech fitness equipment can become a major privacy issue. With various manufacturers it is unclear what data is stored, used and where it is transmitted. Particularly sensitive health data may even end up in the hands of third parties. In addition, there is often a lack of information about who is responsible, i.e. to whom one can assert the rights of those affected. The case makes it clear that everyone should check whether their right to informational self-determination is being respected when purchasing and using it.”
With regard to the new "Clubhouse" app, Kugelmann says: "According to initial findings, the US app is highly problematic from a data protection perspective and probably violates the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation. For example, it requires users to provide the contact details of other people stored on their device without them having to agree. In addition, it is in no way transparent which data the app permanently stores, such as recordings of conversations, and how these are used in the future. As a user, you do not know exactly what is happening with the data. For these reasons alone, as the state data protection officer, I can only recommend that the people of Rhineland-Palatinate not download and use the app.”
The European Data Protection Day has been celebrated annually on January 28 since 2006 by the Council of Europe. This year also marks the 40th anniversary of the Council of Europe's Data Protection Convention 108. The convention was the first legally binding treaty on data protection and a model for a large number of data protection regulations.
On the occasion of the European Data Protection Day, Professor Dieter Kugelmann greets the data protection officers in Europe in English here.

                                return
                            



