1/6

Procedure No.: PS/00357/2019
938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 5, 2018
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against GUIA TELEFONICA PUBLICIDAD, S.L. with NIF
B93399004 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are
who have debited their bank account for online advertising services that have not
authorized on July 2, 2018, for an amount of 290.40 euros. that this charge
comes from alleged Yellow Pages services that the claimant has not
hired

The documentation provided by the claimant consists of the extract from the
account issued by the bank, which reflects the aforementioned operation and the
complaint filed with the General Directorate of Police, Madrid-
Tetuán, on October 5, 2018, for these facts.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:
On October 30, 2018, the claim was transferred to the

claimed, in the proceedings with reference E/8077/2018.

Subsequently, on March 29, 2019, the respondent states the following:

1. That the contact information held by the claimed party was obtained
through the Internet, therefore dealing with public data and within the reach of any
interested party for which the express consent of the same is not necessary.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

2. Regarding bank details, they were provided
voluntarily by the claimant, as reflected in the recording that,
as stated, they will send to the Agency.

3. Provide the response sent to the claimant, dated December 4,
2018, in which they inform you that your contact details and those of the entity to which
represents have been obtained through the internet, with respect to the rest of the data
(banks, etc.…), he has provided them himself, through a telephone conversation
maintained and that was recorded by the company, in which it accepts the hiring of the
services they offer you.

4. They have not provided this Agency with the recording that proves the service

hired by the claimant.

THIRD: On October 23, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed entity,
by virtue of the powers established in article 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles
47, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for the infringement of the
article 6.1 of the RGPD typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the entity claimed, by means of a letter of
dated November 14 of this year, made, in summary, the following allegations:
“The personal contact information of the complainant was obtained through
internet, specifically, through advertisements that the complainant himself had
contracted on another web page, whose content is similar to that of our entity,
advertisements that today are not found on the internet, according to the search engine of
Google, because they have been eliminated in accordance with the applicable regulations regarding
personal data protection.
Said data, limited to the name, profession and telephone number of D.A.A.A., are data
professionals, and should be considered as company data, and, therefore, data not
protected or covered by current regulations on data protection.
That the use that has been given to said contact data has been limited to the implementation of
contact with it to offer our advertising services, services that
at that time it had contracts with our direct competitor.
The treatment must therefore be considered lawful, since they are not even
data protected or protected by current data protection regulations
and, in any case, their treatment was done lawfully taking into account
of the legitimate interest of this entity to offer its services to potential clients,
condition contained in art. 6.1. section f) of the RGPD.
Separate mention deserves the bank details D. AAA, which were provided
by him to this entity. Proof of this is the recording of the call held by the
commercial department of this entity and the D. A.A.A. itself, confirming the
customer's compliance with the offered contract and confirms bank details
previously provided, and it was for the specific purpose of contracting the services of this
entity and make the payment required for that purpose.
Therefore, the bank details were obtained with the express consent of Mr.
AAA, in accordance with art. 5 GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

On this occasion and parallel to the sending of this letter, through the registry
electronically, and the shipment will be made, by certified mail, with a CD containing the
recording".

FIFTH: On November 29, 2019, the respondent was notified of the opening
of the testing period, taking into account the previous actions of
investigation E/01437/2019, as well as the documents provided by the entity
claimed.

PROVEN FACTS

1º On October 5, 2018, the claimant states that they have owed in their
bank account online advertising services that you have not authorized on July 2,
2018, for an amount of 290.40 euros. That this charge comes from supposed services
of Yellow Pages that the claimant has not contracted

The documentation provided by the claimant consists of the extract from the
account issued by the bank, which reflects the aforementioned operation and the
complaint filed with the General Directorate of Police, Madrid-
Tetuán, on October 5, 2018, for these facts.

2º On November 14, 2019, the respondent states that the data
bank accounts were provided by the claimant. Proof of this is the recording of the
call maintained by the commercial department of this entity and the claimant, in
which confirms the customer's compliance with the offered contract and confirms the
bank details provided, and it was for the specific purpose of contracting the
services of this entity and make the payment required for this purpose.

3º In the recording in which the consent was granted, it is verified that the
manager indicates the date and asks for the name and surname of the contracting party, as well as the
payment of the service that will be through a single receipt of 240 euros plus VAT in the
account provided, to which the interlocutor responds with the data of the claimant, and
Confirm your bank account details.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

Law 39/2015, of Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(LPACAP) establishes in its article 89.1 that "the termination of the
procedure, with filing of the actions, without the need to formulate
of the proposed resolution, when in the instruction of the procedure it is stated
I declare that any of the following circumstances exist:

a The non-existence of the facts that could constitute the infraction”.

III

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of Article 6 of the
RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the cases in which
the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

In the case at hand, the data processing carried out by the entity
claimed was carried out using reasonable diligence. In this sense, it has
to take into account that in the systems of the claimed party the data related to
to the claimant.

Likewise, the respondent provides a copy of the telephone recording through the
consent was granted, on behalf of the claimant, for the hiring of
services. This recording was made on June 21, 2018, where
provides the following information: name of the claimed entity, as well as name and
surnames of the claimant, price of the service, duration, term of revocation and account
claimant's bank account and reports on various aspects of the contracting.

Therefore, the degree of culpability existing in the present must be analyzed.
case. The jurisprudence has been requiring those entities that assume in their
becoming, a constant processing of data from customers and third parties, which in the management of
the same, prove compliance with an adequate level of diligence, due to the
increasing casuistry in terms of fraud in the use of data
personal. In this sense, it is manifested, among others, the judgment of the High Court
National Law of April 29, 2010, establishing that “The question that arises
in the present case, in view of the approach of the claim, it is not so much to elucidate
if the appellant processed the personal data of the complainant without her
consent, such as whether or not you used reasonable diligence in trying to
identify the person with whom the financing contract was signed” or as
included in the ruling of the National High Court of March 10, 2015 when pointing out
that: “therefore, no reproach can be made to the actions of Telefónica Móviles
Spain S.A. in this sanctioning area, because as has already been stated, he acted with the
due diligence, treating the data of the complainant from the appearance of
legitimacy of the contracting of the line in question that was granted by the recording
telephone (...)

In short, it is not possible to assess culpability in the actions of the entity
appellant, so it cannot be charged or sanctioned ex article 130 LRJPAC
for violation of the principle of consent nor, and in correlation, of the
principle of data quality since the prior request for payment was made in the
address that according to the aforementioned telephone recording corresponded to the owner of the line”

According to these criteria, it can be understood that the defendant used a
reasonable diligence, since it took the necessary measures to identify the
person who made the contract.

Considering the aforementioned precepts and others of general application,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

FIRST: FILE sanctioning procedure PS/00357/2019, instructed to
GUIA TELEFONICA PUBLICIDAD, S.L., with NIF B93399004, for having accredited
that it used reasonable diligence, since it adopted the necessary measures to
identify the person who made the contract.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to PUBLICITY TELEPHONE GUIDE,
SL,

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

