  No. Fac.: 11.17.003.012.001 BY HAND December 10, 2021 Subject: Unsolicited marketing call to official telephone DECISION number Based on the duties and powers conferred on me by articles 33(5) and 55(1) of the Regulation ( EU) 2016/679, hereinafter "the General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR", I issue the following decision: 1. Background 1.1. A complaint was submitted to my Office on February 18, 2021, by XXXXXX (hereinafter the "complainant"), regarding an unsolicited call to market services / policies of Universal Life Insurance Public Co. Ltd (hereafter "Professor"). 1.2. As stated in the complaint, the complainant works at XXXXXX and on February 18, 2021 at 12:05 PM, he received a call on his work phone XXXXXX, from the phone number XXXXXX. The call was made by XXXXX (hereinafter the "caller"), to promote the services / contracts of the Lady. The caller asked for the complainant by name and informed him that this particular approach is the policy of the Defendant. 1.3. On March 12, 2021, based on my duty to examine complaints, pursuant to Article 57(1)(f) of the Regulation, an electronic message was sent on my behalf to the Defendant, informing her of the complaint in question and called upon, until March 29, 2021, to answer questions regarding the legal basis of the communication with the complainant, the manner of possession of the complainant's work number, and the process of promoting services / contracts to work / business telephone numbers. 1.4. The Defendant, in a letter dated March 29, 2021, stated, among other things, the following: (a) the communication with the complainant was carried out by the appellant, in her capacity as an associate insurance intermediary of the Defendant, which operates as a freelancer, (b) the communication took place in the context of investigating the complainant's interest in arranging a possible meeting with the aim of analyzing his insurance needs and presenting various insurance solutions, (c) at the start of the phone call, the caller revealed to the complainant the name and her status, the purpose of the call, the source of obtaining the details of the complainant, and "finally also asked his permission to continue the conversation or not". The complainant appeared annoyed by the telephone communication, he again demanded the details of the caller, who provided them to him and who apologized for the possible inconvenience. (d) the details of the complainant were obtained from the official website of XXXXXX, on which they are posted, (e) the Defendant does not directly market its products/services through telephone conversations or otherwise, therefore it does not maintain a specific procedure for communications to professional numbers, (f) regarding communication with prospective clients, which is done exclusively for the purpose of investigating the arrangement of a possible meeting for the analysis of their insurance needs and the presentation of various insurance solutions, the Client provides specialized training its associate insurance intermediaries on how to communicate. In particular, in telephone communications of the Client's associates with prospective clients, the name and status of the associates, the purpose of the communication, where the information of the prospective client has been obtained, must be disclosed and his consent sought for continuation of the conversation, thus providing the possibility of consent or refusal in an easy way, (g) the direct commercial actions of the Defendant are of an informational nature and are addressed only to its existing customers who have consented to receive information on telephone numbers or email addresses provided by them. Therefore, the Company does not maintain a direct marketing policy. 1.5. On August 24, 2021, my Office sent a letter to her, in which questions were raised again, since contradictions were found in her letter dated March 29, 2021. More specifically, the Defendant was called upon, until September 10, 2021, to clarify the following: "(a) is there a contractual relationship with the complainant? If so, did the complainant provide relevant consent to receive calls in the context of direct marketing of the Defendant's products / services? If so, why was the communication in question not made to a telephone number provided by the complainant, but made to a telephone number found on the internet? (b) taking into account paragraph 5 of the letter dated March 29, 2021, does the Company carry out direct commercial promotion to natural persons with whom there is no contractual relationship or not? (c) the communication with prospective clients, which is done exclusively and solely for the purpose of investigating the arrangement of a possible meeting for the analysis of their insurance needs and the presentation of various insurance solutions, as referred to in paragraph 3(c) of the Defendant's response, does it count as direct marketing or not? (d) does the said communication with the complainant count as direct marketing or not? (e) what is the role of the caller in relation to the Defendant and the personal data of the Defendant's customers (controller, joint controller or processor)? If the caller is a controller or a joint controller, the Court is requested to send the contact details of the caller." 1.6. On September 10, 2021, my Office received by email a response letter, dated the same date, from the Defendant, in which, among other things, the following is stated: (a) After an investigation by the Defendant, it was found that, the only an element that the Defendant has in her possession is the name of the complainant. It does not appear that the Client maintains a contractual relationship with the complainant. 2 (b) The Defendant does not carry out direct commercial promotion to natural persons with whom there is no contractual relationship. It clarifies that, the reference made in the letter dated March 29, 2021, regarding the provision of specialized training to partner insurance intermediaries, regarding the way of communication they must follow with prospective clients, "refers to their way of communication in terms of the disclosure of their details, the purpose of the phone call and obtaining the consent of the called person, essentially to investigate their interest in such a meeting." (c) As for the existing customers, the Court considers that it is a separate matter, because in this case, the contact information provided by the customer himself is used exclusively for communication purposes for the execution of his contract. Therefore, Ms. disagrees with the finding of my Office, that conflicting positions have been formulated in the letter dated March 29, 2021. (d) Ms. does not consider that the communication with prospective clients that is "exclusively and only to explore a possible meeting in order to analyze their insurance needs and present various insurance solutions", is direct marketing. He bases this view on the method of telephone communication with the prospective client to be followed, as described in point (b), and the purpose of the communication. (e) The Defendant clarifies that, the appellant has the role of Performer of the Defendant's Processing, which is the Processing Manager with regard to the personal data of the Defendant's customers. B. Legal Framework 2.1. Article 4(1) of the Regulation defines that "personal data" is "any information concerning an identified or identifiable natural person (data subject)". 2.2. In Article 4(2), processing is defined as "any act or series of acts carried out with or without the use of automated means, on personal data or sets of personal data, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, the storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, retrieval of information, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or any other form of disposal, association or combination, limitation, deletion or destruction”. 2.3. Further, in Article 4(7), a data controller is defined as anyone (the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body) who, "alone or jointly with another, determine the purposes and manner of data processing of a personal nature". 2.4. Article 4(11) provides that consent means "any indication of will, free, specific, explicit and fully informed, by which the data subject expresses that he agrees, by statement or by a clear positive action, to be the subject of processing personal data concerning it". 2.5. The Principles governing the processing of personal data are defined in Article 5(1) of the Regulation. In subsection (a) of this Article it is provided that personal data must be "submitted to a lawful and legitimate
 

3

processing in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject ("lawfulness,
objectivity and transparency)''. Also, in subsection (b) of the same Article it is stated that,
personal data must be «) collected for specified, express
and legitimate purposes and are not further processed in any way
incompatible with those purposes (``purpose limitation'').
 
2.6. Article 6(1) of the Regulation, which concerns the legality of the processing,
provides that the processing is lawful, "only if and as long as at least one
of the following conditions:
a) the data subject has consented to the processing of the data
of his personal nature for one or more specific purposes,
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract of which the subject of
data is a contracting party or to take measures at the request of the subject
of pre-contractual data,
c) processing is necessary to comply with a legal obligation
controller, d) the processing is necessary for the preservation of life
interest of the data subject or other natural person,
e) the processing is necessary for the fulfillment of a task performed towards
public interest or in the exercise of public authority delegated to the person in charge
processing,
f) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legal interests that
sought by the controller or a third party, unless against these interests
the interest or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the subject prevails
of data that require the protection of personal data, in particular
if the data subject is a child.
Item f) of the first paragraph does not apply to the processing carried out
by public authorities in the exercise of their duties."
 
2.7. Further, recital (47) of the preamble of the GDPR clarifies that, “The
legitimate interests of the controller, including those of a
controller to whom the personal data may be disclosed
character or of third parties, may provide the legal basis for the processing, provided
that they do not override his interests or fundamental rights and freedoms
data subject, taking into account the legitimate expectations of the subjects
of the data based on their relationship with the controller. Such a law
interest could for example exist when there is a relevant and appropriate relationship
between the data subject and the controller, as if the
data subject is a customer of the controller or located in
service of..."
 
2.8. Based on Article 58(2), the Commissioner has all the following remedies
powers:
"a) to send warnings to the person in charge of the processing or to the executor thereof
processing that intended processing operations are likely to violate provisions
of this regulation,
b) address reprimands to the controller or processor
when processing operations have violated the provisions of this regulation,

 

4

c) to instruct the controller or processor to
complies with the data subject's requests for the exercise of
his rights under this regulation,
d) to instruct the controller or processor to
make processing operations comply with the provisions of this regulation,
if necessary, in a specific manner and within a certain period,
e) instruct the data controller to notify the data breach
of a personal nature to the data subject,
f) to impose a temporary or definitive restriction, including prohibition
of processing, g) to instruct correction or deletion of personnel data
nature or restriction of processing pursuant to articles 16, 17 and 18 and order
notification of these actions to recipients to whom the personnel data
nature were disclosed pursuant to Article 17(2) and Article 19,
h) withdraw the certification or order the certification body to withdraw one
certificate issued under sections 42 and 43 or order the agency
certification not to issue a certification if the certification requirements do not
fulfilled or no longer fulfilled,
 i) to impose an administrative fine pursuant to article 83, in addition to or instead of the measures
referred to in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances of each individual
case,
j) to order the suspension of data circulation to a recipient in a third country or to
international organization."
 
C. Rationale
 
3.1. First of all, it must be clarified that, although the caller, at the beginning of the
call, disclosed to the complainant her name, her status, her purpose
call, the source of receiving the information of the complainant and requested consent for the
continuation of the call, however, said call was intended to create
contractual relationship with the complainant. Therefore, the claim of Ms.
that this call is not a direct commercial promotion.
 
3.2. In addition, the details of the complainant are posted on the official website
of XXXXX in his professional capacity. The said call was made with a purpose
"the investigation of a possible meeting in order to analyze his insurance needs
and the presentation of various insurance solutions" at an individual level. Therefore, the
the complainant's data was used for a purpose other than that for which it was intended
were originally published.
 
3.3. Based on Article 6(1)(a) of the GDPR, the data controller, in this
in this case, she can make calls or send messages to people who
have given their prior consent to the processing / use of
their personal data (phone number) to make calls and/or
promotion of products and services.
 
3.4. Furthermore, based on subsection (1)(f) of the same Article, the processing is lawful
when it is necessary for the purposes of the legal interests pursued by
controller, unless these interests prevail
interest or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject

 

5

which impose the protection of personal data. Based on
recital (47) of the preamble, the controller could
invoke such legal interest when there is a relevant and appropriate relationship between
of the data subject and the controller, such as
if the data subject is a customer of the controller. In
in this case, there is an admission by the Defendant that there is no contractual agreement
relationship between her and the complainant.
 
3.5. I would like to point out that the practice followed is not considered legal and
legitimate considering that telephone calls are made, without preceding the
obtaining the corresponding consent from the data subject and without it
any contractual relationship. Therefore, as far as reference to its legality
processing of the complainant's data, none of the conditions are met
of Article 6(1) of the GDPR.
 
D. Conclusion – Conclusion
  
4.1. Article 58 par. 2(b) of the GDPR gives me the authority as the Protection Commissioner
Personal Data, among other things, to address reprimands to
controller or to the processor when processing operations
have violated the provisions of this Regulation.
 
4.2. Bearing in mind the above facts, the legal aspect on which the
this decision and the analysis as explained above, below
powers granted to me by Article 58 para. 2(b) of the GDPR, I address a Reprimand to
Universal Life Insurance Public Co. Ltd, as a controller, as, at
future, refrains from any direct commercial promotion, without any legal
basis, and follows all procedures to comply with the GDPR.
 
4.3. In the event that it is established that Universal Life Insurance Public Co. Ltd, proceed
in a similar nature violation of the GDPR, this Reprimand will be measured in
possible imposition of an administrative sanction against it.
 
 
 
 
Irini Loizidou Nikolaidou
Data Protection Commissioner
Personal Character
 
/A.D.
 

 

6

