1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00321/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated July 3, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the neighboring B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 and C.C.C. ***NIF.2 (in
later, those claimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are "installation of cameras" that can

affect the public/private space of third parties without just cause.

“Furthermore, the affected party has requested on many occasions the presumed
those responsible for the events described, so that they remove the cameras or the inmates
laugh in such a way that disproportionate images of the public thoroughfare are not captured, nor
of the home of the affected party, having ignored the requirements
effected”

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the

installation of the device that is the subject of the complaint.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

THIRD: On December 4, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On 01/10/20, this Agency receives a written response from the
denounced party stating succinctly the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

“All the cameras are not only installed on the property
exclusive to this part, but are also oriented to capture only and
exclusively the spaces of this (...)

In any case, the installation of the cameras is more than justified by

security reasons, since:

The undersigned property has very easy access as it is not fenced or

have a gate that closes the main entrance of it.

In addition, in recent years, there have been various robberies and thefts in the

zone, as well as in the adjacent towns (...)

The complainant has never required this party to remove the camera or
let us redirect it, because no burofax, letter or similar from him has been received, not even
verbally (...).

As stated above, no image is captured from the
public road, nor of the claimant's home, much less in a
disproportionate as it tries to be seen by this, so at no time
the right to privacy of third parties has been affected or is being affected (...)”.

FIFTH: On 01/20/20, a Resolution Proposal was issued proposing a
pecuniary penalty of €2,000 (Two Thousand Euros), for an infraction of article 5.1.c) of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: On 03/03/20, a request for collaboration was requested from the Local Police
of Abanilla, so that those displaced to the place of the events could issue a report on the
legality of the chamber and its possible affectation to the private space of third parties.

SEVENTH: On 03/26/20 a response is received from the Local Police (Abanilla)
providing the following report after traveling to the scene of the events:

“That the acting agents verify that said access to that dwelling does not
It is not included in the urban plan, nor in the cadastral plan, which according to the technician of the
Abanilla City Council that access to housing is not recorded as public in the
Urban plan, which is very particular without cadastral reference.

It is verified that said surveillance camera is oriented to the private street

and not to the home of the complainant Mr. A.A.A.

It is observed that it has an approved sign at the entrance of the house. Y
that in the opinion of these Agents it is observed that the cameras are correctly
oriented”.

Cadastral document and photos of the area are attached.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 07/03/19, this Agency received a claim from the complainant
transferring as main fact the following:

“installation of cameras” that can affect public/private space of the

Zeros without just cause.
Second. It is identified as the main person in charge of the installation Doña B.-
B.B., which acknowledges having installed the video surveillance camera system.
Third. There is a sign posted by a private security company, where no
appreciates given the distance of the photograph the person in charge of the treatment and the character
homologated of the same, although the local Police verifies it in situ, considering it as
right.
Fourth. Access to housing is not included in the Urban Plan, nor is it cadastral,
that according to the technician of the City Council of Abanilla that access to the houses does not
appears as public in the Urban Plan, which is quite private without reference
cadastral.
Fifth. There is no evidence that the camera affects the privacy of the domicile of the
complaining party.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

Before going into the merits of the matter, we proceed to examine the request for
testimonial evidence requested by the accused party to take statements from neighbors
adjoining to manifest about "thefts in the area", pointing out that the opinion per-
personnel or statements by third parties about robberies in adjoining areas, do not justify
per se the installation of video-surveillance cameras, which must be rejected
as unnecessary, given that the important thing is to determine what is being captured with the system.
theme installed by the defendant.

Regarding the evidence requested in section b) by the defendants, it proceeds
to reject it, given that he is given a full copy of the administrative file
vo, sufficing in this case the evidence provided by the complainant, which allows
verify the presence of a camera oriented towards a transit area to initiate
procedure, as this body considers the initial explanations insufficient
granted by the defendant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

III

In the present case, the claim dated 07/03/19 is examined by me-
dio from which he transfers "installation of cameras" that can affect private space
of their patrons.

Provides documentary evidence that proves the installation of a device, which may
could control the transit area without just cause, not observing the presence of the
mandatory informative poster.

The facts described above may affect the content of the
art.5.1 c) RGPD. “Personal data will be:

      c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed ("data minimization").

It should be noted that individuals can install video-surveillance cameras, although
They are responsible for ensuring that they comply with current legislation.

With this type of device, the privacy of third parties cannot be affected,

as close neighbors who can be intimidated by them.

The art. 22 section 4 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides the following:
following: “The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

A connection code or

Internet address to this information.

IV

In accordance with the Local Police Report (Abanilla) dated 03/05/20,
the acting force confirms that the installed camera system does not affect the space
exclusive of the denouncing party, not stating the public nature of the space that
ñala, by qualifying as a "private property" without cadastral reference.

It also notes the presence of an informative poster in a visible area indicating
the data controller, considering it as "approved" for legal purposes.
opportune them.

Finally, after making the necessary inquiries, it is not found that the camera
ra (s) is oriented towards the denouncer's private space, but exclusively to the
housing and adjacent private area of the accused, for security reasons.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the
punisher and must be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal
or administrative (TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in
any of its manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a
contradictory procedure in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

v

In accordance with the foregoing, there is no evidence of the commission of an administrative infraction al-
guna, which is why it is appropriate to order the File of this procedure.

The rest of the issues exceed the competence framework of this Agency, motivated by

for which no pronouncement is going to be made to that effect.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,
By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the accused B.B.B. and C.C.C. and
REPORT the result of the proceedings to the denouncing party Mr. A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPA-
CAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative case before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Au-
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative diction, within a period of two months from the day following
Following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned
Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

