27.08.2021
EDPB study

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) recently issued a document entitled "Overview of resources made available to data protection authorities by Member States and on enforcement actions by data protection authorities".
This study was prepared at the request of the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE Committee) and includes certain statistics on financial and human resources provided by EU Member States and the European Economic Area (EEA) to national authorities. supervision, as well as information on the related supervisory and control activity.
The document also emphasizes that the protection of personal data is a fundamental right in the EU, which requires sound supervision, which can only exist if supervisors are adequately equipped with staff and resources to monitor compliance. with GDPR.
Furthermore, the Committee emphasizes that, in order to keep pace with the rapid pace of technological developments and digitization, surveillance should be carried out on a sustained basis, which is why supervisors need to have the means and expertise to do so. .
At the same time, the Committee points out that, thanks to the cooperation and coherence mechanism set out in the GDPR (One-Stop Shop), supervisors have become interdependent, and the effective implementation of this mechanism requires, among other things, that all supervisors , as the lack of resources in a national supervisory authority competent to handle cross-border cases may have consequences for respect for the rights of citizens across the EU.
At the same time, the document notes that, in addition to resolving complaints and conducting investigations, the GDPR provides supervisors with a wide range of other tasks and tools to promote and monitor compliance, which contribute equally to the protection of the fundamental right to protection. data in the EU. These include, but are not limited to, assessing the impact on data protection, assessing codes of conduct, issuing certification and accreditation tools, evaluating BCRs and, of course, contributing to EDPB's work to ensure consistent application and interpretation of the GDPR across the Union. In this respect, the Committee emphasizes the importance of the appropriate endowment of all supervisory tasks and tools.
The document of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB), in English, can be consulted here.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.