Decision

Diary no

2020-12-17

DI-2019-13116
Your diary no
2019-22350

Correctional Service
Box 306
Slottsgatan 78
601 80 Norrköping

Supervision according to the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177) –
The routines of the correctional service for handling of
personal data incidents
Table of Contents
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision................................................... ..................................... 2
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ............................ 3
Applicable regulations................................................... ................................... 4
Justification of the decision................................................... .......................................... 6
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's review................................................... ......................... 6
Procedures for detecting personal data incidents................................................ 7
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... .................... 8
Procedures for handling personal data incidents................................... 9
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ................... 9
Procedures for documentation of personal data incidents.............................. 10
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ................... 10
Information and training regarding personal data incidents................................ 11
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ................... 12
How to appeal............................................... .............................................. 13

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority announces the following recommendations with the support of ch. 5.
Section 6 of the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177):
1.

The correctional service should regularly evaluate the effectiveness of the
security measures taken to detect
personal data incidents and, if necessary, revise these in order to
maintain adequate protection of personal data.

2. The prison service should regularly check that the routines for
handling of personal data incidents is followed.
3. The correctional service should in the authority's routines for reporting of
personal data incidents specify which data of an occurred
incident to be documented as well as regularly checking that
the procedures for documentation of personal data incidents are followed.
4. The correctional service should provide its employees with ongoing information and
recurrent training in the handling of personal data incidents
and about the reporting obligation.

The Swedish Data Protection Authority closes the case.

2 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

Account of the supervisory matter
The obligation of the personal data controller – i.e. private and public
actors - to report certain personal data incidents to the Swedish Data Protection Authority
was introduced on 25 May 2018 through the Data Protection Regulation1 (GDPR).
The corresponding notification obligation was introduced on 1 August 2018 in
the crime data act (BDL) for so-called competent authorities.2 The obligation to
reporting personal data incidents (hereinafter referred to as incident) aims to strengthen
privacy protection by the Data Inspectorate receiving information about
the incident and may choose to take action when the inspection judges that it
is needed for the personal data controller to handle the incident in one go
satisfactory way and take measures to prevent something like that
occurs again.
A personal data incident is according to ch. 1 § 6 BDL a security incident which
leads to accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration, or
unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to personal data. IN
the preparatory work for the law states that it is usually an unplanned one
event that affects the security of personal data in a negative way
and which entail serious consequences for the protection of the data.3 One
personal data incident can be, for example, that personal data has been sent
to the wrong recipient, that access to the personal data has been lost, that
computer equipment that stores personal data has been lost or stolen, that
someone inside or outside the organization accesses information like that
lacks authorization to.
A personal data incident that is not quickly and appropriately addressed can
entail risks for the data subject's rights or freedoms. An incident can
lead to physical, material or immaterial damage through, for example

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
2 A competent authority is according to ch. 1 § 6 BDL an authority that processes
personal data for the purpose of preventing, preventing or detecting criminal activity, investigate
or prosecuting offences, enforcing criminal penalties or maintaining public order and
security.
3 Prop.2017/18:232 p. 438
1

3 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

discrimination, identity theft, identity fraud, damaged reputation,
financial loss and breach of confidentiality or confidentiality.
There can be many reasons why a personal data incident occurs. Of
Datainspektionen's report series Reported personal data incidents under
period May 2018 - December 2019 it appears that the most common causes
behind the reported incidents was i.a. the human factor, technical errors,
antagonistic attacks as well as deficiencies in organizational routines or processes.4
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has initiated this supervisory case against the Norwegian Prison and Probation Service for the purpose of
to check whether the authority has routines in place to detect
personal data incidents and whether the authority has and has had routines for
to handle personal data incidents according to the Criminal Data Act. In the review
also includes checking whether the Probation Service has procedures for documentation
of incidents that meet the requirements of the Criminal Data Ordinance (BDF) as well as
if the authority has carried out information and training efforts regarding
personal data incidents.
The inspection began with a letter to the Correctional Service on 4 December 2019
and was followed up with the request for completion on March 4, 2020.
The authority's response to the supervisory letter was received on 4 February 2020 and
the supplement was received on April 9, 2020.

Applicable regulations
The person in charge of personal data must according to ch. 3. § 2 BDL, by appropriate means
technical and organizational measures, ensure and be able to demonstrate that
the processing of personal data is constitutional and that it
data subject's rights are protected. This means that competent authorities,
by means of these measures, shall not only ensure that
the data protection regulations are followed but must also be able to demonstrate that this is the case. Which
technical and organizational measures required to protect
personal data is regulated in ch. 3. § 8 BDL.
See the Swedish Data Protection Authority's report series on Reported personal data incidents 2018
(Datainspektionen's report 2019:1) p 7 f; Reported personal data incidents January September 2019 (Data inspection report 2019:3) p.10 f. and Reported
personal data incidents 2019 (Datainspektionen's report 2020:2) p. 12 f.
4

4 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

In the preparatory work for the law, it is stated that organizational measures referred to in § 2 are
i.a. to have internal strategies for data protection, to inform and educate
the staff and to ensure a clear division of responsibilities. Measures such as
taken to show that the processing is constitutional can e.g. be
documentation of IT systems, treatments and measures taken and
technical traceability through logging and log follow-up. What actions that
must be taken may be decided after an assessment in each individual case.5 The measures must
reviewed and updated as necessary. The actions that it
personal data controller must take according to this provision must according to ch. 3
§ 1 BDF be reasonable taking into account the nature, scope,
context and purpose and the particular risks of the treatment.
Of ch. 3 § 8 BDL states that the person in charge of personal data must take
appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect them
personal data that is processed, especially against unauthorized or unauthorized persons
processing and against loss, destruction or other accidental damage. IN
the preparatory work for the Crime Data Act states that the security must include
equipment access protection, data media control, storage control,
user control, access control, communication control, input control,
transport control, recovery, operational security and data integrity. This one
However, the enumeration is not exhaustive. As an example of organizational
security measures may include the establishment of a security policy,
checks and follow-up of security, training in data security and
information about the importance of following current safety procedures. Routines for
notification and follow-up of personal data incidents also constitute such
actions.6
What circumstances should be considered to achieve an appropriate level of protection
is regulated in ch. 3. § 11 BDF. The measures must achieve a level of security
which is appropriate taking into account the technical possibilities, the costs of
the measures, the nature, extent, context and purpose of the processing, as well as
the particular risks of the treatment. Special consideration should be given in which
extent to which sensitive personal data is processed and how privacy-sensitive
other personal data processed are.7 Violation of regulations i

5
6
7

Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 453
Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 457
Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 189 f.

5 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

3 ch. §§ 2 and 8 BDL can lead to penalty fees according to ch. 6. 1 § 2 BDL.
The person in charge of personal data must according to ch. 3. § 14 BDF document all
personal data incidents. The documentation must report the circumstances
about the incident, its effects and the measures taken as a result
of that. The personal data controller must document all incidents
incidents regardless of whether it must be reported to the Data Protection Authority or not.8
The documentation must enable the supervisory authority to
check compliance with the current provision. Failure to
documenting personal data incidents may result in penalty fees
according to ch. 6 § 1 BDL.
A personal data incident must also, according to ch. 3 § 9 BDL, reported to
Datainspektionen no later than 72 hours after the personal data controller
became aware of the incident. A report does not need to be made if it is
unlikely that the incident has caused or will cause any risk
for improper intrusion into the data subject's personal privacy. Of ch. 3 Section 10
BDL states that the person in charge of personal data must inform it in certain cases
data subjects affected by the incident. Failure to report a
personal data incident to the Swedish Data Protection Authority can lead to administrative
penalty fees according to ch. 6 § 1 BDL.9

Justification of the decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's review
In this supervisory matter, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has to take a position on
The correctional service has documented procedures for detection
personal data incidents according to the Criminal Data Act and if the authority has
and has had routines for handling incidents since the BDL came into force.
The review also covers the issue of compliance with the requirement for
documentation of incidents in ch. 3 § 14 BDF. In addition, shall
The Data Inspectorate will take a decision on whether the Correctional Service has carried out

Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 198
Liability for violations is strict. Thus, neither intent nor negligence is required to
sanction fee must be leviable, see prop. 2017/18:232 p. 481.
8
9

6 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

information and training efforts for its employees with a focus on
handling of personal data incidents according to BDL.
The review does not cover the content of the routines or training efforts
but is focused on checking that the reviewing authority has
routines in place and that it has carried out training efforts for
the employees regarding personal data incidents. The review includes
however, if the authority's procedures contain instructions to document them
information required under the Criminal Data Ordinance.
Procedures for detecting personal data incidents
The personal data that competent authorities handle within the framework of their
law enforcement and criminal investigation activities are largely off
sensitive and privacy-sensitive nature. The nature of the business sets high standards
demands on the law enforcement authorities' ability to protect them
information was recorded through the necessary protective measures in order to, among other things,
prevent an incident from occurring.
The obligation to report personal data incidents according to ch. 3 § 9 BDL
shall be interpreted in the light of the general requirements to take appropriate technical and
organizational measures, to ensure appropriate security for
personal data, which is prescribed in ch. 3 Sections 2 and 8. An ability to quickly
detecting and reporting an incident is a key factor. Because they
the law enforcement authorities must be able to live up to
the reporting requirement, they must have internal procedures and technical capabilities for
to detect an incident.
Based on the needs of the business and with the support of risk and vulnerability analyses
competent authorities can identify the areas where there is a greater risk
that an incident may occur. Based on the analyses, the authorities can then
use various instruments to detect a security threat. These can be
both technical and organizational measures. The starting point is that they
the security measures taken must provide sufficient protection and that incidents do not
shall occur.
Examples of technical measures include intrusion detectors that automatically
analyzes and detects data breaches and use of
log analysis tools to be able to detect unauthorized access
(log deviations). An increased insight into the business's "normal" network

7 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

traffic patterns help identify things that deviate from the normal
the traffic picture against, for example, servers, applications or data files.
Organizational measures can, for example, be the adoption of internal strategies
for data protection relating to internal rules, guidelines, routines and various types of
steering documents and policy documents.10 Guidelines and rules for handling of
personal data, routines for incident management and log follow-up11 constitute
examples of such strategies. Periodic follow-up of assigned
permissions are another example of organizational action. In a competent
authority, there must be procedures for allocation, change, removal and
regular control of authorizations.12 Information to and training of
staff about the incident management rules and procedures to be followed are
also examples of such measures.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Correctional Service has essentially stated the following. Since 2005 working
the authority structured with incident management. There are also since several
year a guideline that regulates the obligation to report incidents
incidents. The guideline also covers incidents that are detected and that concern
personal data. With regard to technical protection, the Prison Service's internal freight structure is linked to IT security. Examples of protection include
firewalls, network segmentation, intrusion detection and
log follow-up. The Correctional Service further states that the technical and
organizational routines that the authority has to detect
personal data incidents can be divided into prevention and follow-up
routines. Preventive measures are described in the Prison Service's regulations for IT security and include regulations to avoid information security and
IT security incidents where personal data incidents are a type of incident.
In addition, the Probation Service explains in its statement which preventive measures
which the authority has taken and described e.g. how log follow-up is done. Of
the investigation shows that the Correctional Service has carried out training and
information efforts for its employees about personal data processing
which includes information about personal data incidents and about
reporting obligation.

Crime Data Act - Partial report of the Inquiry into the 2016 data protection directive Stockholm
2017, SOU 2017:29 p. 302
11 Competent authorities must ensure that there are routines for log follow-up, see prop.
2017/18:232 p. 455 f.
12 3 ch. § 6 BDL and supplementary provisions in ch. 3. § 6 BDF
10

8 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

The Data Inspectorate can state that the Prison Service has routines to
detect personal data incidents on the spot.
The duty to take security measures to detect
personal data incidents are not tied to a specific time but the actions
must be continuously reviewed and, if necessary, changed. To the Prison Service
must be able to maintain a sufficient level of protection of personal data over time
recommends the Data Inspectorate, with the support of ch. 5. § 6 BDL, that
the authority regularly evaluates the effectiveness of those taken
the security measures to detect personal data incidents and that
the authority updates these if necessary.
Procedures for handling personal data incidents
In order to live up to the requirements for organizational measures in ch. 3. Section 8
BDL, the personal data controller must have documented internal routines that
describes the process to be followed when an incident has been detected or
occurred, including how the incident will be contained, managed and recovered,
as well as how the risk assessment should be carried out and how the incident should be reported internally
and to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The routines must include, among other things, what a
personal data incident is/can be, when an incident needs to be reported, and
to whom, what must be documented, the distribution of responsibilities and which
information that should be provided within the framework of notification to
The Swedish Data Protection Authority.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's control of procedures for handling
personal data incidents refer to the time from the entry into force of the Criminal Data Act
i.e. on August 1, 2018.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The correctional service has, among other things, stated the following. The authority has had one for several years
guideline that regulates the reporting obligation of incidents that have occurred. According to
the guideline all types of incidents must be reported within 24 hours i
the authority's joint incident reporting system Isap. It appears
further that all employees have authority and an obligation to report
incidents. Personal data incidents, like other incidents, are reported
also in Isap. The Correctional Service has submitted the authority's guidelines for
reporting and investigation of incidents (2018:8) dated 2018-09-11 and a
internal routine for reporting personal data to the Data Inspectorate dated
2018-04-09. The Correctional Service has stated that the first-mentioned guideline is one
general routine for the authority's reporting and investigation of incidents.

9 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

This covers all different types of incidents that can occur within
the authority and also applies to personal data incidents. Regarding it
the internal routine is stated to apply specifically to that function within
the authority that analyse, assess and also report
personal data incidents to the Data Inspectorate.
Taking into account the submitted documents and what appeared in
the case states that the Norwegian Prison and Probation Service from that time
the crime data act entered into force has had and has routines to deal with
personal data incidents on site.
To be able to handle detected personal data incidents correctly
and counteract its effects and risks for the data subjects' personal lives
integrity is important. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore recommends, with the support of
5 ch. § 6 BDL, that the Correctional Service regularly checks that the routines for
handling of personal data incidents is followed.
Procedures for documentation of personal data incidents
A prerequisite for the Data Inspection Authority to be able to check
compliance with the documentation requirement of incidents in ch. 3. § 14 BDF is that
the documentation includes certain information that should always be included.
The documentation must include all details of the incident, including its
reasons, what happened and the personal data affected. It should also
contain the consequences of the incident and the corrective actions that it takes
taken by the data controller.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Correctional Service has mainly stated the following. All incidents
is initially documented in the incident reporting system Isap, which also
includes personal data incidents. Regarding the incidents that are assessed
constitute personal data incidents, the Data Inspectorate's forms are used for
to analyze, assess and, where appropriate, report. This also applies
the personal data incidents which, after assessment, have not been reported to
The Swedish Data Protection Authority. Of the Prison Service's internal routine for reporting of
personal data incidents to the Data Inspectorate, it appears that for those cases a
personal data incident is not reportable, it is also documented
through the Data Inspectorate's report template and stored internally.

1 0 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

The Data Inspectorate states that the Correctional Service has an internal IT system
in order to e.g. report incidents related to personal data. In addition
it appears from the authority's internal routine that all personal data incidents must
is documented and that the authority uses the Data Inspectorate
forms for reporting personal data incidents to document
occurred personal data incidents even if they are not subject to reporting.
However, the Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the internal routines lack one
description of what information the documentation must cover.
Being able to document personal data incidents that have occurred in an accurate manner
way and thus counteract the risk of the documentation being deficient or
incomplete is important. Insufficient documentation can lead to
the incidents are not handled and remedied correctly, which can get
impact on privacy protection. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore recommends,
with the support of ch. 5 § 6 BDL, that the internal routines of the Prison Service for
reporting of personal data incidents is supplemented with a description of
which details of an incident to be documented. In addition
should the Correctional Service carry out regular checks of the internal
the documentation of personal data incidents.
Information and training regarding personal data incidents
The staff is an important resource in security work. It's just not enough
internal procedures, rules or governing documents if users do not follow them.
All users must understand that handling of personal data must take place in one
legally secure way and that it is more serious not to report an incident yet
to report e.g. a mistake or an error. It is therefore required that all
users receive adequate training and clear information about data protection.
The person in charge of personal data must inform and train his staff in matters
on data protection including handling of personal data incidents. Of
Datainspektionen's report series Reported personal data incidents under
period 2018-2019, it appears that the human factor is the most common
the cause of reported personal data incidents. 13 These mainly consist of
individuals who, knowingly or unknowingly, do not follow internal procedures at
Report 2019:1, report 2019:3 and report 2020:2. Similar conclusions have been drawn by MSB
its annual report for serious IT incidents, i.e. that most of the incidents are due to
human mistakes, see https://www.msb.se/sv/aktuellt/nyheter/2020/april/arsrapporten-forallvarliga-it-incidenter-2019-ar-slappt/
13

1 1 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

processing of personal data or committed a mistake in the handling of
personal data. About half of the incidents are due to it
the human factor is about misdirected letters and e-mails.
According to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, this underlines the importance of
internal procedures and technical security measures need to be supplemented with
ongoing training, information and other measures to increase knowledge and
awareness among employees.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
When asked how information and training about incidents is provided
employees, the Correctional Service has stated, among other things, following. The authority has
informed the staff about reporting personal data incidents, e.g. via
the intranet, a mandatory e-course for all employees, information film,
training for managers and for certain administrative staff, e-mails and
through regional Isap coordinators.
Against the background of what appears from the investigation, the Data Protection Authority believes
that the Correctional Service has shown that the authority has provided information and
training on handling personal data incidents to its employees.
To maintain competence and ensure that new staff get
training, it is important to have recurring information and training
the employees and hired personnel. The Swedish Data Protection Authority recommends, with
support of ch. 5 § 6 BDL, that the Correctional Service provides the employees on an ongoing basis
information and recurring training in the handling of
personal data incidents and the obligation to report them.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Maria Angelica Westerberg. At the final
IT security specialist Ulrika is also handling the case
Sundling and the lawyer Jonas Agnvall participated.
Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2020-12-17 (This is an electronic signature)

Copy for the attention of:
The Data Protection Officer of the Prison Service

1 2 (13)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13116

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

1 3 (13)

