Decision

Diary no

2020-12-17

DI-2019-13114
Your diary no
8-3407

Tax Agency
Unit 6800
171 94 Solna

Supervision according to the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177) –
The Tax Agency's procedures for handling
personal data incidents
Table of Contents
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision................................................... ..................................... 2
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ............................ 3
Applicable regulations................................................... ................................... 4
Justification of the decision................................................... .......................................... 6
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's review................................................... ......................... 6
Procedures for detecting personal data incidents................................................ 7
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... .................... 8
Procedures for handling personal data incidents................................... 9
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ................... 9
Procedures for documentation of personal data incidents.............................. 10
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... .................... 11
Information and training regarding personal data incidents................................ 11
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ................... 12
How to appeal............................................... .............................................. 14

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority announces the following recommendations with the support of ch. 5.
Section 6 of the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177):
1.

The Swedish Tax Agency should regularly evaluate the effectiveness of the measures taken
the security measures to detect personal data incidents and
if necessary revise these to maintain adequate protection of
personal data.

2. The Tax Agency should regularly check that the routines for handling
of personal data incidents are followed.
3. The Tax Agency should regularly check that the internal routines for
documentation of personal data incidents is followed.
4. The Tax Agency should provide its employees with ongoing information and
recurrent training in the handling of personal data incidents
and about the reporting obligation.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority closes the case.

2 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

Account of the supervisory matter
The obligation of the personal data controller – i.e. private and public
actors - to report certain personal data incidents to the Swedish Data Protection Authority
was introduced on 25 May 2018 through the Data Protection Regulation1 (GDPR).
The corresponding notification obligation was introduced on 1 August 2018 in
the crime data act (BDL) for so-called competent authorities.2 The obligation to
reporting personal data incidents (hereinafter referred to as incident) aims to strengthen
privacy protection by the Data Inspectorate receiving information about
the incident and may choose to take action when the inspection judges that it
is needed for the personal data controller to handle the incident in one go
satisfactory way and take measures to prevent something like that
occurs again.
A personal data incident is according to ch. 1 § 6 BDL a security incident which
leads to accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration, or
unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to personal data. IN
the preparatory work for the law states that it is usually an unplanned one
event that affects the security of personal data in a negative way
and which entail serious consequences for the protection of the data.3 One
personal data incident can be, for example, that personal data has been sent
to the wrong recipient, that access to the personal data has been lost, that
computer equipment that stores personal data has been lost or stolen, that
someone inside or outside the organization accesses information like that
lacks authorization to.
A personal data incident that is not quickly and appropriately addressed can
entail risks for the data subject's rights or freedoms. An incident can
lead to physical, material or immaterial damage through, for example

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
2 A competent authority is according to ch. 1 § 6 BDL an authority that processes
personal data for the purpose of preventing, preventing or detecting criminal activity, investigate
or prosecuting offences, enforcing criminal penalties or maintaining public order and
security.
3 Prop.2017/18:232 p. 438
1

3 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

discrimination, identity theft, identity fraud, damaged reputation,
financial loss and breach of confidentiality or confidentiality.
There can be many reasons why a personal data incident occurs. Of
Datainspektionen's report series Reported personal data incidents under
period May 2018 - December 2019 it appears that the most common causes
behind the reported incidents was i.a. the human factor, technical errors,
antagonistic attacks as well as deficiencies in organizational routines or processes.4
The Data Inspectorate has initiated this supervisory case against the Swedish Tax Agency with the aim of
check whether the authority has procedures in place to detect
personal data incidents and whether the authority has and has had routines for
to handle incidents according to the Criminal Data Act. The review also includes that
check whether the Swedish Tax Agency has routines for documenting incidents
which meets the requirements of the Criminal Data Ordinance (BDF) and if
the authority has carried out information and training initiatives around
personal data incidents.
The inspection began with a letter to the Tax Agency on 4 December 2019
and was followed up with the request for completion on March 4, 2020.
The authority's response to the supervisory letter was received on 27 January 2020 and
the supplement was received on March 25, 2020.

Applicable regulations
The person in charge of personal data must according to ch. 3. § 2 BDL, by appropriate means
technical and organizational measures, ensure and be able to demonstrate that
the processing of personal data is constitutional and that it
data subject's rights are protected. This means that competent authorities,
by means of these measures, shall not only ensure that
the data protection regulations are followed but must also be able to demonstrate that this is the case. Which
technical and organizational measures required to protect
personal data is regulated in ch. 3. § 8 BDL.
See the Swedish Data Protection Authority's report series on Reported personal data incidents 2018
(Datainspektionen's report 2019:1) p 7 f; Reported personal data incidents January September 2019 (Data inspection report 2019:3) p.10 f. and Reported
personal data incidents 2019 (Datainspektionen's report 2020:2) p. 12 f.
4

4 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

In the preparatory work for the law, it is stated that organizational measures referred to in § 2 are
i.a. to have internal strategies for data protection, to inform and educate
the staff and to ensure a clear division of responsibilities. Measures such as
taken to show that the processing is constitutional can e.g. be
documentation of IT systems, treatments and measures taken and
technical traceability through logging and log follow-up. What actions that
must be taken may be decided after an assessment in each individual case.5 The measures must
reviewed and updated as necessary. The actions that it
personal data controller must take according to this provision must according to ch. 3
§ 1 BDF be reasonable taking into account the nature, scope,
context and purpose and the particular risks of the processing.
Of ch. 3 § 8 BDL states that the person in charge of personal data must take
appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect them
personal data that is processed, especially against unauthorized or unauthorized persons
processing and against loss, destruction or other accidental damage. IN
the preparatory work for the Crime Data Act states that the security must include
equipment access protection, data media control, storage control,
user control, access control, communication control, input control,
transport control, recovery, operational security and data integrity. This one
However, the enumeration is not exhaustive. As an example of organizational
security measures may include the establishment of a security policy,
checks and follow-up of security, training in data security and
information about the importance of following current safety procedures. Routines for
notification and follow-up of personal data incidents also constitute such
actions.6
What circumstances should be considered to achieve an appropriate level of protection
is regulated in ch. 3. § 11 BDF. The measures must achieve a level of security
which is appropriate taking into account the technical possibilities, the costs of
the measures, the nature, extent, context and purpose of the processing, as well as
the particular risks of the treatment. Special consideration should be given in which
extent to which sensitive personal data is processed and how privacy-sensitive
other personal data processed are.7 Violation of regulations i

5
6
7

Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 453
Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 457
Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 189 f.

5 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

3 ch. §§ 2 and 8 BDL can lead to penalty fees according to ch. 6. 1 § 2 BDL.
The person in charge of personal data must according to ch. 3. § 14 BDF document all
personal data incidents. The documentation must report the circumstances
about the incident, its effects and the measures taken as a result
of that. The personal data controller must document all incidents
incidents regardless of whether it must be reported to the Data Protection Authority or not.8
The documentation must enable the supervisory authority to
check compliance with the current provision. Failure to
documenting personal data incidents may result in penalty fees
according to ch. 6 § 1 BDL.
A personal data incident must also, according to ch. 3 § 9 BDL, reported to
Datainspektionen no later than 72 hours after the personal data controller
became aware of the incident. A report does not need to be made if it is
unlikely that the incident has caused or will cause any risk
for improper intrusion into the data subject's personal privacy. Of ch. 3 Section 10
BDL states that the person in charge of personal data must inform it in certain cases
data subjects affected by the incident. Failure to report a
personal data incident to the Swedish Data Protection Authority can lead to administrative
penalty fees according to ch. 6 § 1 BDL.9

Justification of the decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's review
In this supervisory matter, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has to take a position on
The Swedish Tax Agency has documented procedures for detection
personal data incidents according to the Criminal Data Act and if the authority has
and has had routines for handling incidents since the BDL came into force.
The review also covers the issue of compliance with the requirement for
documentation of incidents in ch. 3 § 14 BDF. In addition, shall
The Swedish Data Protection Authority will take a decision on whether the Swedish Tax Agency has carried out

Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 198
Liability for violations is strict. Thus, neither intent nor negligence is required to
sanction fee must be leviable, see prop. 2017/18:232 p. 481.
8
9

6 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

information and training efforts for its employees with a focus on
handling of personal data incidents according to BDL.
The review does not cover the content of the routines or training efforts
but is focused on checking that the reviewing authority has
routines in place and that it has carried out training efforts for
the employees regarding personal data incidents. The review includes
however, if the authority's procedures contain instructions to document them
information required under the Criminal Data Ordinance.
Procedures for detecting personal data incidents
The personal data that competent authorities handle within the framework of their
law enforcement and criminal investigation activities are largely off
sensitive and privacy-sensitive nature. The nature of the business sets high standards
demands on the law enforcement authorities' ability to protect them
information was recorded through the necessary protective measures in order to, among other things,
prevent an incident from occurring.
The obligation to report personal data incidents according to ch. 3 § 9 BDL
shall be interpreted in the light of the general requirements to take appropriate technical and
organizational measures, to ensure appropriate security for
personal data, which is prescribed in ch. 3 Sections 2 and 8. An ability to quickly
detecting and reporting an incident is a key factor. Because they
the law enforcement authorities must be able to live up to
the reporting requirement, they must have internal procedures and technical capabilities for
to detect an incident.
Based on the needs of the business and with the support of risk and vulnerability analyses
competent authorities can identify the areas where there is a greater risk
that an incident may occur. Based on the analyses, the authorities can then
use various instruments to detect a security threat. These can be
both technical and organizational measures. The starting point is that they
the security measures taken must provide sufficient protection and that incidents do not
shall occur.
Examples of technical measures include intrusion detectors that automatically
analyzes and detects data breaches and use of
log analysis tools to be able to detect unauthorized access
(log deviations). An increased insight into the business's "normal" network

7 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

traffic patterns help identify things that deviate from the normal
the traffic picture against, for example, servers, applications or data files.
Organizational measures can, for example, be the adoption of internal strategies
for data protection relating to internal rules, guidelines, routines and various types of
steering documents and policy documents.10 Guidelines and rules for handling of
personal data, routines for incident management and log follow-up11 constitute
examples of such strategies. Periodic follow-up of assigned
permissions are another example of organizational action. In a competent
authority, there must be procedures for allocation, change, removal and
regular control of authorizations.12 Information to and training of
staff about the incident management rules and procedures to be followed are
also examples of such measures.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Tax Agency has essentially stated the following. The personal data incidents
which is detected and reported is based on the individual manager and
the employee is observant and has the ability and knowledge to be able to
identify a suspected personal data incident. All managers and
employees have a responsibility to report suspicions
personal data incidents. Information about what might be a suspect
personal data incident has been communicated to all managers and
employee at the tax crime unit (SBE). The Tax Agency further states that
the authority has implemented organizational and technical procedures such as
log follow-up and authorization assignment. Regarding technical solutions
stated that the central computer systems for the officers of the tax crime unit
is the Swedish Tax Agency's criminal investigation support (RIF BU) for the criminal investigator
activities (pre-investigation activities) and the Swedish Tax Agency
intelligence register (SKUR) for intelligence operations. RIF BU is
built and designed in such a way that it has several technical routines
to counter personal data incidents. Regarding organizational
measures, it appears that access to information and permissions are controlled
through the use of various authorization control systems and authorization cards.
The authorization control system has records of all users and their
authorizations and transactions against which the system is continuously checked against
Crime Data Act - Partial report of the Inquiry into the 2016 data protection directive Stockholm
2017, SOU 2017:29 p. 302
11 Competent authorities must ensure that there are routines for log follow-up, see prop.
2017/18:232 p. 455 f.
12 3 ch. § 6 BDL and supplementary provisions in ch. 3. § 6 BDF
10

8 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

the registry. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency during 2018-2019 trained and
informed employees and managers within the tax crime unit i
data protection issues. All employees have received information in particular about e.g.
how a personal data incident should be reported and what support is available for
to report and assess personal data incidents.
The Data Inspectorate can state that the Swedish Tax Agency has routines to
detect personal data incidents on the spot.
The duty to take security measures to detect
personal data incidents are not tied to a specific time but the actions
must be continuously reviewed and, if necessary, changed. In order for the Swedish Tax Agency to
be able to maintain a sufficient level of protection of personal data over time
recommends the Data Inspectorate, with the support of ch. 5. § 6 BDL, that
the authority regularly evaluates the effectiveness of those taken
the security measures to detect personal data incidents and that
the authority updates these if necessary.
Procedures for handling personal data incidents
In order to live up to the requirements for organizational measures in ch. 3. Section 8
BDL, the personal data controller must have documented internal routines that
describes the process to be followed when an incident has been detected or
occurred, including how the incident will be contained, managed and recovered,
as well as how the risk assessment should be carried out and how the incident should be reported internally
and to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The routines must include, among other things, what a
personal data incident is/can be, when an incident needs to be reported, and
to whom, what must be documented, the distribution of responsibilities and which
information that should be provided within the framework of notification to
The Swedish Data Protection Authority.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's control of procedures for handling
personal data incidents refer to the time from the entry into force of the Criminal Data Act
i.e. on August 1, 2018.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Tax Agency has, among other things, stated the following. The authority has routines/guidelines
to report and handle detected personal data incidents. The boss
or employees who discover a suspicious personal data incident within

9 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

SBE must report this in the Swedish Tax Agency's User Support or the IT portal via
one
e-service. SBE has its own entry in User Support and the IT portal called
"Personal data incident according to the Criminal Data Act (SBE)". The Swedish Tax Agency has, among other things,
submitted Routine personal data incidents dated 2019-05-09 as well as
Complementary internal routine at SBE for reporting of
personal data incidents dated 2019-08-13 which supplements it
the aforementioned routine. The Tax Agency states that the authority's Routine
personal data incidents are primarily produced for the data protection regulation,
but also takes BDL and BDF into account. The Tax Agency further states that
the authority in May 2018 established a support to identify, report,
assess and manage personal data incidents (Report 2018-05-18
Data Protection Regulation Handling Personal Data Incidents). The report
intended to support the Swedish Tax Agency's operations in the event of personal data incidents
according to the data protection regulation and to support the operations at
the tax crime unit in the event of personal data incidents according to the Criminal Data Act.
The Tax Agency adopted the document Routine on 26 November 2018
personal data incidents (updated on 9 May 2019 and 30
December 2019). The Swedish Tax Agency states that there were special procedures/guidelines
for handling personal data incidents and a digital management system
for reported personal data incidents in place when the BDL became applicable
August 1, 2018.
Taking into account the submitted documents and what appeared in
case, the Data Inspection Authority states that the Swedish Tax Agency from that time
the crime data act entered into force has had and has routines to deal with
personal data incidents on site.
To be able to handle detected personal data incidents correctly
and counteract its effects and risks for the data subjects' personal lives
integrity is important. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore recommends, with the support of
5 ch. § 6 BDL, that the Swedish Tax Agency regularly checks that the routines for
handling of personal data incidents is followed.
Procedures for documentation of personal data incidents
A prerequisite for the Data Inspection Authority to be able to check
compliance with the documentation requirement of incidents in ch. 3. § 14 BDF is that
the documentation includes certain information that should always be included.
The documentation must include all details of the incident, including its

1 0 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

reasons, what happened and the personal data affected. It should also
contain the consequences of the incident and the corrective actions that it takes
taken by the data controller.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Tax Agency has mainly stated the following. It is
the responsibility of the personal data coordinators (PU-IK) that the reports are
kept in a diary, handled and documented. Furthermore, it is stated that in support of
processing and documentation of reported personal data incidents
there is a digital management system where all measures taken
be documented. There are also supporting documents for diary keeping
personal data incidents. Of the authority's Routine personal data incidents
as well as of their Supplementary internal routine at SBE for reporting of
personal data incidents, it appears that all personal data incidents must
be documented. The documentation must state the circumstances surrounding
the personal data incident, its effects and the measures taken with it
reason for it.
The Data Inspectorate states that the Swedish Tax Agency has an internal IT system for
to report personal data incidents. In addition, it is clear from the submissions
the routines that all personal data incidents must be documented and that
it has been specified which data the documentation must cover.
The Data Inspectorate states that the Swedish Tax Agency's procedures for documentation
meets the requirements of the current regulation.
Being able to document personal data incidents that have occurred in an accurate manner
way and thus counteract the risk of the documentation being deficient or
incomplete is important. Insufficient documentation can lead to
the incidents are not handled and remedied correctly, which can get
impact on privacy protection. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore recommends,
with the support of ch. 5 § 6 BDL, that the Tax Agency carries out regular
checks of the internal documentation of personal data incidents.
Information and training regarding personal data incidents
The staff is an important resource in security work. It's just not enough
internal procedures, rules or governing documents if users do not follow them.
All users must understand that handling of personal data must take place in one
legally secure way and that it is more serious not to report an incident yet

1 1 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

to report e.g. a mistake or an error. It is therefore required that all
users receive adequate training and clear information about data protection.
The person in charge of personal data must inform and train his staff in matters
on data protection including handling of personal data incidents. Of
Datainspektionen's report series Reported personal data incidents under
period 2018-2019, it appears that the human factor is the most common
the cause of reported personal data incidents. 13 These mainly consist of
individuals who, knowingly or unknowingly, do not follow internal procedures at
processing of personal data or committed a mistake in the handling of
personal data. About half of the incidents are due to it
the human factor is about misdirected letters and e-mails.
According to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, this underlines the importance of
internal procedures and technical security measures need to be supplemented with
ongoing training, information and other measures to increase knowledge and
awareness among employees.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
When asked how information and training about incidents is provided
employees, the Swedish Tax Agency has stated i.a. following. The Tax Agency has internal
training in data protection for employees and managers. The Tax Agency has
trained and informed all employees and managers within SBE through
that during 2018-2019 they have undergone the Tax Agency's training i
data protection issues. During the spring/summer of 2018, the employees took part
of educational films produced by the Ecocrime Agency on
the data protection reform including the Criminal Data Act. In addition, they have received
information about the data protection regulation and the crime data act, especially around
reporting of personal data incidents. Section managers have also left
information to all employees that personal data incidents must
being reported, how to go about reporting and what might be one
personal data incident. All managers at SBE have received information from
The Swedish Tax Agency's data protection officer. Every manager and employee has completed
a digital basic course on the data protection regulation, which includes approximately two
hours of self-study.
Report 2019:1, report 2019:3 and report 2020:2. Similar conclusions have been drawn by MSB
its annual report for serious IT incidents, i.e. that most of the incidents are due to
human mistakes, see https://www.msb.se/sv/aktuellt/nyheter/2020/april/arsrapporten-forallvarliga-it-incidenter-2019-ar-slappt/
13

1 2 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

Against the background of what appears from the investigation, the Data Protection Authority believes
that the Swedish Tax Agency has shown that the authority has provided information and
training on handling personal data incidents to its employees
To maintain competence and ensure that new staff get
training, it is important to have recurring information and training
the employees and hired personnel. The Swedish Data Protection Authority recommends, with
support of ch. 5 § 6 BDL, that the Swedish Tax Agency provides employees with ongoing information
and recurring training in the handling of personal data incidents
and the obligation to report these.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Maria Angelica Westerberg. At the final
IT security specialist Ulrika is also handling the case
Sundling and the lawyer Jonas Agnvall participated.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2020-12-17 (This is an electronic signature)

Copy for the attention of:
The Swedish Tax Agency's data protection officer

1 3 (14)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13114

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

1 4 (14)

