Decision

Diary no

2020-12-17

DI-2019-13112
Your diary no
VER 2019-3463

Customs
Box 12854
112 98 Stockholm

Supervision according to the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177) –
Customs' procedures for handling
personal data incidents
Table of Contents
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision................................................... ..................................... 2
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ............................ 3
Applicable regulations................................................... ................................... 4
Justification of the decision................................................... .......................................... 6
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's review................................................... ......................... 6
Procedures for detecting personal data incidents................................................ 7
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... .................... 8
Procedures for handling personal data incidents................................... 9
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ................... 10
Procedures for documentation of personal data incidents.............................. 11
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... .................... 11
Information and training regarding personal data incidents................... 12
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ................... 13
How to appeal............................................... .............................................. 15

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority announces the following recommendations with the support of ch. 5.
Section 6 of the Criminal Data Act (2018:1177):
1.

Customs should regularly evaluate the effectiveness of the measures taken
the security measures to detect personal data incidents and
if necessary revise these to maintain adequate protection of
personal data.

2. Customs should review the agency's routines for logging and
log follow-up and update these as applicable
criminal data legislation.
3. The Customs Service should draw up a consolidated document with written guidelines
or procedures for handling personal data incidents.
4. Customs should regularly check that the procedures for handling
personal data incidents are followed.
5. The customs office should in the authority's routines for handling of
personal data incidents specify which data of an occurred
incident to be documented as well as regularly checking that
the procedures for documentation of personal data incidents are followed.
6. Customs should provide its employees with ongoing information and
recurrent training in the handling of personal data incidents
and about the reporting obligation.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority closes the case.

2 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

Account of the supervisory matter
The obligation of the personal data controller – i.e. private and public
actors - to report certain personal data incidents to the Swedish Data Protection Authority
was introduced on 25 May 2018 through the Data Protection Regulation1 (GDPR).
The corresponding notification obligation was introduced on 1 August 2018 in
the crime data act (BDL) for so-called competent authorities.2 The obligation to
reporting personal data incidents (hereinafter referred to as incident) aims to strengthen
privacy protection by the Data Inspectorate receiving information about
the incident and may choose to take action when the inspection judges that it
is needed for the personal data controller to handle the incident in one go
satisfactory way and take measures to prevent something like that
occurs again.
A personal data incident is according to ch. 1 § 6 BDL a security incident which
leads to accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration, or
unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to personal data. IN
the preparatory work for the law states that it is usually an unplanned one
event that affects the security of personal data in a negative way
and which entail serious consequences for the protection of the data.3 One
personal data incident can be, for example, that personal data has been sent
to the wrong recipient, that access to the personal data has been lost, that
computer equipment that stores personal data has been lost or stolen, that
someone inside or outside the organization accesses information like that
lacks authorization to.
A personal data incident that is not quickly and appropriately addressed can
entail risks for the data subject's rights or freedoms. An incident can
lead to physical, material or immaterial damage through, for example

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
2 A competent authority is according to ch. 1 § 6 BDL an authority that processes
personal data for the purpose of preventing, preventing or detecting criminal activity, investigate
or prosecuting offences, enforcing criminal penalties or maintaining public order and
security.
3 Prop.2017/18:232 p. 438
1

3 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

discrimination, identity theft, identity fraud, damaged reputation,
financial loss and breach of confidentiality or confidentiality.
There can be many reasons why a personal data incident occurs. Of
Datainspektionen's report series Reported personal data incidents under
period May 2018 - December 2019 it appears that the most common causes
behind the reported incidents was i.a. the human factor, technical errors,
antagonistic attacks as well as deficiencies in organizational routines or processes.4
The Data Inspectorate has initiated this supervisory case against the Swedish Customs Administration with the aim of
check whether the authority has procedures in place to detect
personal data incidents and whether the authority has and has had routines for
to handle personal data incidents according to the Criminal Data Act (BDL). IN
the review also includes checking whether the Swedish Customs Administration has routines for
documentation of incidents that meet the requirements of
the crime data regulation (BDF) and whether the authority has implemented
information and training efforts regarding personal data incidents.
The inspection began with a letter to the Customs Board on 4 December 2019 and
was followed up with a request for completion on March 4, 2020. The authority's
response to the supervisory letter was received on 17 January 2020 and the supplement
received on March 19, 2020.

Applicable regulations
The person in charge of personal data must according to ch. 3. § 2 BDL, by appropriate means
technical and organizational measures, ensure and be able to demonstrate that
the processing of personal data is constitutional and that it
data subject's rights are protected. This means that competent authorities,
by means of these measures, shall not only ensure that
the data protection regulations are followed but must also be able to demonstrate that this is the case. Which
technical and organizational measures required to protect
personal data is regulated in ch. 3. § 8 BDL.
See the Swedish Data Protection Authority's report series on Reported personal data incidents 2018
(Datainspektionen's report 2019:1) p 7 f; Reported personal data incidents January September 2019 (Data inspection report 2019:3) p.10 f. and Reported
personal data incidents 2019 (Datainspektionen's report 2020:2) p. 12 f.
4

4 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

In the preparatory work for the law, it is stated that organizational measures referred to in § 2 are
i.a. to have internal strategies for data protection, to inform and educate
the staff and to ensure a clear division of responsibilities. Measures such as
taken to show that the processing is constitutional can e.g. be
documentation of IT systems, treatments and measures taken and
technical traceability through logging and log follow-up. What actions that
must be taken may be decided after an assessment in each individual case.5 The measures must
reviewed and updated as necessary. The actions that it
personal data controller must take according to this provision must according to ch. 3
§ 1 BDF be reasonable taking into account the nature, scope,
context and purpose and the particular risks of the processing.
Of 3 ch. § 8 BDL states that the person in charge of personal data must take
appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect them
personal data that is processed, especially against unauthorized or unauthorized persons
processing and against loss, destruction or other accidental damage. IN
the preparatory work for the Crime Data Act states that the security must include
equipment access protection, data media control, storage control,
user control, access control, communication control, input control,
transport control, recovery, operational security and data integrity. This one
However, the enumeration is not exhaustive. As an example of organizational
security measures may include the establishment of a security policy,
checks and follow-up of security, training in data security and
information about the importance of following current safety procedures. Routines for
notification and follow-up of personal data incidents also constitute such
actions.6
What circumstances should be considered to achieve an appropriate level of protection
is regulated in ch. 3. § 11 BDF. The measures must achieve a level of security
which is appropriate taking into account the technical possibilities, the costs of
the measures, the nature, scope, context and purpose of the processing, as well as
the particular risks of the treatment. Special consideration should be given in which
extent to which sensitive personal data is processed and how privacy-sensitive
other personal data that is processed is.7 Violation of regulations i

5
6
7

Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 453
Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 457
Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 189 f.

5 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

3 ch. §§ 2 and 8 BDL can lead to penalty charges according to ch. 6. 1 § 2 BDL.
The person in charge of personal data must according to ch. 3. § 14 BDF document all
personal data incidents. The documentation must report the circumstances
about the incident, its effects and the measures taken as a result
of that. The personal data controller must document all incidents
incidents regardless of whether it must be reported to the Data Protection Authority or not.8
The documentation must enable the supervisory authority to
check compliance with the current provision. Failure to
documenting personal data incidents may result in penalty fees
according to ch. 6 § 1 BDL.
A personal data incident must also, according to ch. 3 § 9 BDL, reported to
Datainspektionen no later than 72 hours after the personal data controller
became aware of the incident. A report does not need to be made if it is
unlikely that the incident has caused or will cause any risk
for improper intrusion into the data subject's personal integrity. Of ch. 3 Section 10
BDL states that the person in charge of personal data must inform it in certain cases
data subjects affected by the incident. Failure to report a
personal data incident to the Swedish Data Protection Authority can lead to administrative
penalty fees according to ch. 6 § 1 BDL.9

Justification of the decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's review
In this supervisory matter, the Data Inspectorate has to take a position on the Swedish Customs Service
has documented procedures for detecting personal data incidents according to
the Criminal Data Act and whether the authority has and has had routines to deal with it
incidents since the BDL came into force. The review also covers the question of
compliance with the requirement for documentation of incidents in ch. 3. § 14 BDF
In addition, the Data Inspectorate must take a position on whether the Swedish Customs Administration has carried out
information and training efforts for its employees with a focus on
handling of personal data incidents according to BDL.

Prop. 2017/18:232 p. 198
Liability for violations is strict. Thus, neither intent nor negligence is required to
sanction fee must be leviable, see prop. 2017/18:232 p. 481.
8
9

6 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

The review does not cover the content of the routines or training efforts
but is focused on checking that the reviewing authority has
routines in place and that it has carried out training efforts for
the employees regarding personal data incidents. The review includes
however, if the authority's procedures contain instructions to document them
information required under the Criminal Data Ordinance.
Procedures for detecting personal data incidents
The personal data that competent authorities handle within the framework of their
law enforcement and criminal investigation activities are largely off
sensitive and privacy-sensitive nature. The nature of the business sets high standards
demands on the law enforcement authorities' ability to protect them
information was recorded through the necessary protective measures in order to, among other things,
prevent an incident from occurring.
The obligation to report personal data incidents according to ch. 3 § 9 BDL
shall be interpreted in the light of the general requirements to take appropriate technical and
organizational measures, to ensure appropriate security for
personal data, which is prescribed in ch. 3 Sections 2 and 8. An ability to quickly
detecting and reporting an incident is a key factor. Because they
the law enforcement authorities must be able to live up to
the reporting requirement, they must have internal procedures and technical capabilities for
to detect an incident.
Based on the needs of the business and with the support of risk and vulnerability analyses
competent authorities can identify the areas where there is a greater risk
that an incident may occur. Based on the analyses, the authorities can then
use various instruments to detect a security threat. These can be
both technical and organizational measures. The starting point is that they
the security measures taken must provide sufficient protection and that incidents do not
shall occur.
Examples of technical measures include intrusion detectors that automatically
analyzes and detects data breaches and use of
log analysis tools to be able to detect unauthorized access
(log deviations). An increased insight into the business's "normal" network
traffic patterns help identify things that deviate from the normal
the traffic picture against, for example, servers, applications or data files.

7 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

Organizational measures can, for example, be the adoption of internal strategies
for data protection relating to internal rules, guidelines, routines and various types of
steering documents and policy documents.10 Guidelines and rules for handling of
personal data, routines for incident management and log follow-up11 constitute
examples of such strategies. Periodic follow-up of assigned
permissions are another example of organizational action. In a competent
authority, there must be procedures for allocation, change, removal and
regular control of authorizations.12 Information to and training of
staff about the incident management rules and procedures to be followed are
also examples of such measures.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Customs Service has essentially stated the following. The authority has detailed
routines and guidelines for monitoring the processing of personal data i
Customs' IT system for law enforcement activities. By
logging and systematic log follow-up, the Swedish Customs Service can detect unauthorized persons
activity in their IT systems. On the authority's intranet there is information about
i.a. the security logging and how the follow-up of the security logging goes
to. In the Customs' supplementary response, reference is made to the authority's internal
rule on follow-up of processing of personal data in the Swedish Customs Administration's IT system
for law enforcement activities (STY 2015-99) and to the authority
supporting documents for Guidance on follow-up treatment of
personal data in the Swedish Customs Service's IT system for law enforcement activities
(VER 2015-489) submitted. It also appears that technical solutions for
to counter and detect IT and information security incidents,
including personal data incidents, is protection against malicious code on clients
(servers and workstations), next-generation firewalls to detect
threats in the network and SIEM solution13 to analyze threats in networks and IT systems.

Crime Data Act - Partial report of the Inquiry into the 2016 data protection directive Stockholm
2017, SOU 2017:29 p. 302
11 Competent authorities must ensure that there are routines for log follow-up, see prop.
2017/18:232 p. 455 f.
12 3 ch. § 6 BDL and supplementary provisions in ch. 3. § 6 BDF
13 A SIEM solution collects log data from the network, extracts meaningful information from
the logs, compare different events to discover attack patterns and help search
log data for root cause analysis, something that provides in-depth insight into what is happening in the network.
10

8 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

As far as mobile phones are concerned, these are handled by security software that meets
Customs' requirements for handling information of high security value.
Security software can, for example, identify malicious behavior on
mobile phones such as improper access to data and take various measures
depending on the dignity of the wrong. Examples of measures can be locking out
from internal applications, selective deletion of internal data or
factory reset. Regarding organizational measures, please refer to the Swedish Customs Administration
to the authority's governing document STY 2019-273, Internal rule for
business protection, in which i.a. states that if a service card or IT equipment is lost or has been used by someone else, this must be reported
urgently to IT support. After that, the IT security function must immediately
be informed. The investigation shows that the Swedish Customs Service has carried out training and information efforts. All employees must undergo a mandatory
online introductory course on personal data processing which includes
information on personal data incidents and reporting obligations.
The Data Inspectorate can state that the Swedish Customs Service has routines for detection
personal data incidents on site. The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes, however, that they
documents relating to logging and log follow-up referred to by the Swedish Customs Administration
to, i.e. The authority's intranet, STY 2015-99 and VER 2015-489, is based on
Personal Data Act (1998:204) and has not been updated in accordance with current regulations
data protection legislation for law enforcement. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
believes that this justifies a review of these procedures.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore recommends, with the support of ch. 5. § 6 BDL, that
The Swedish Customs Service reviews the authority's routines for logging and log follow-up
and updates these in accordance with current data protection legislation for
law enforcement activities.
The duty to take security measures to detect
personal data incidents are not tied to a specific time but the actions
must be continuously reviewed and, if necessary, changed. In order for the Swedish Customs Service to
be able to maintain a sufficient level of protection of personal data over time
recommends the Data Inspectorate, with the support of ch. 5. § 6 BDL, that
the authority regularly evaluates the effectiveness of those taken
the security measures to detect personal data incidents and that
the authority updates these if necessary.

9 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

Procedures for handling personal data incidents
In order to live up to the requirements for organizational measures in ch. 3. Section 8
BDL, the personal data controller must have documented internal routines that
describes the process to be followed when an incident has been detected or
occurred, including how the incident will be contained, managed and recovered,
as well as how the risk assessment should be carried out and how the incident should be reported internally
and to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The routines must include, among other things, what a
personal data incident is/can be, when an incident needs to be reported, and
to whom, what must be documented, the distribution of responsibilities and which
information that should be provided within the framework of notification to
The Swedish Data Protection Authority.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's control of procedures for handling
personal data incidents refer to the time from the entry into force of the Criminal Data Act
i.e. on August 1, 2018.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Customs Office has, among other things, stated the following. The authority has routines/guidelines for
to report personal data incidents and information about this can be found at
the authority's intranet. Information on the intranet shows that
personal data incidents are categorized as a
information security incident which should be reported to IT support for
assessment and further handling. Customs has also submitted
the authority's temporary routine for handling personal data incidents
dated 2019-04-29 as well as a description of how IT support should register
reported personal data incidents. In the Swedish Customs Service's supplementary response
the authority has made it clear that similar temporary routines for handling
personal data incidents were already in place in April 2018 and that these
was updated in April 2019. Any further update of the routines has
not happened since then. Customs also states that there is nothing
produced guidance document that specifically addresses personal data incidents
and refers to the authority's governing document STY 2019-785 which contains
a routine for handling information and IT security-related incidents
and problems. In cases where personal data is affected in an incident,
the incident according to the steering document is reported via IT support.
Taking into account the submitted documents and what appeared in
the case, the Data Inspectorate states at the outset that the Customs Agency from
the time when the Criminal Data Act came into force has had and has routines to

1 0 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

handle personal data incidents on site. From the review, however, it has
emerged that the Customs Office's routines are found in various documents and contain
different parts of the routines. For example, it appears from the Customs Agency's intranet
information about what a personal data incident is and how an incident should be
are reported and in the authority's temporary procedures for handling of
personal data incidents, it is possible to read about the division of responsibility and
the process for handling personal data incidents. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
also notes that the Swedish Customs Administration lacks a produced guidance document
specifically for handling personal data incidents. It can according to
Datainspektionen's opinion implies a problem with dispersed information
and risk of slow incident handling.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore recommends, with the support of ch. 5. § 6 BDL, that
Customs prepares a consolidated document with written guidelines or
procedures for handling personal data incidents.
To be able to handle detected personal data incidents correctly
and counteract its effects and risks for the data subjects' personal lives
integrity is important. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore recommends, with the support of
5 ch. § 6 BDL, that the Customs Agency regularly checks that the routines for
handling of personal data incidents is followed.
Procedures for documentation of personal data incidents
A prerequisite for the Data Inspection Authority to be able to check
compliance with the documentation requirement of incidents in ch. 3. § 14 BDF is that
the documentation includes certain information that should always be included.
The documentation must include all details of the incident, including its
reasons, what happened and the personal data affected. It should also
contain the consequences of the incident and the corrective actions that it takes
taken by the data controller.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Customs Service has essentially stated the following. A case, such as a
personal data incident, is documented in JIRA Service desk. The report on
the investigation of a personal data incident is saved. External communication with
The Data Inspectorate is saved in the diary under diary series VER. Of the authority
intranet, it appears that the Swedish Customs Service must document everyone
personal data incidents and at the same time a description of which appears
details and circumstances of a personal data incident which

1 1 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

the documentation must include. Customs has also developed a template for
reporting and investigation of personal data incidents where it appears a
detailed description of an incident that occurred and what to do
be documented. The template is intended to serve as a support during the investigation
and as an internal documentation when the investigation is completed.
The Data Inspectorate states that the Swedish Customs Service has an internal IT system to
i.a. report incidents related to personal data. In addition, it appears from
the authority's intranet that all personal data incidents must be documented
as well as what information the documentation must cover. In addition, have
the authority has produced a template for reporting and investigation of
personal data incidents that meet the requirements of the current
the provision. The Data Inspectorate notes, however, that the Customs Agency's routines for
handling of personal data incidents lacks a description of which
information that the documentation must include.
Being able to document personal data incidents that have occurred in an accurate manner
way and thus counteract the risk of the documentation being deficient or
incomplete is important. Insufficient documentation can lead to
the incidents are not handled and remedied correctly, which can get
impact on privacy protection. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore recommends,
with the support of ch. 5 § 6 BDL, that the Customs' routines for handling of
personal data incidents are supplemented with a description of which data
of an incident that has occurred that must be documented. In addition, the Customs Service should
carry out regular checks of the internal documentation of
personal data incidents
Information and training regarding personal data incidents
The staff is an important resource in security work. It's just not enough
internal procedures, rules or governing documents if users do not follow them.
All users must understand that handling of personal data must take place in one
legally secure way and that it is more serious not to report an incident yet
to report e.g. a mistake or an error. It is therefore required that all
users receive adequate training and clear information about data protection.
The person in charge of personal data must inform and train his staff in matters
on data protection including handling of personal data incidents. Of
Datainspektionen's report series Reported personal data incidents under
period 2018-2019, it appears that the human factor is the most common

1 2 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

the cause of reported personal data incidents. 14 These mainly consist of
individuals who, knowingly or unknowingly, do not follow internal procedures at
processing of personal data or committed a mistake in the handling of
personal data. About half of the incidents are due to it
the human factor is about misdirected letters and e-mails.
According to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, this underlines the importance of
internal procedures and technical security measures need to be supplemented with
ongoing training, information and other measures to increase knowledge and
awareness among employees.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
When asked how information and training about incidents is provided
employees, the Swedish Customs Administration has stated i.a. following. Customs uses the tool
Teacher platform where employees can complete online courses. All
employees must complete a mandatory web-based introductory course on
personal data processing. The course component includes, among other things, training on
what constitutes a personal data incident and how it should be reported
internal. Information on what constitutes personal data incidents and if
the importance of reporting these is also included as part of it
basic training that customs aspirants in law enforcement undergo.
Furthermore, the Swedish Customs Administration has plans for further information initiatives that will
be directed to specific business areas.
Against the background of what appears from the investigation, the Data Protection Authority believes
that the Swedish Customs Service has shown that the authority has provided information and training
on the handling of personal data incidents to its employees.
To maintain competence and ensure that new staff get
training, it is important to have recurring information and training
the employees and hired personnel. The Swedish Data Protection Authority recommends, with
support of ch. 5 § 6 BDL, that the Customs Agency provides the employees with ongoing information
and recurring training in the handling of personal data incidents
and the obligation to report these.

Report 2019:1, report 2019:3 and report 2020:2. Similar conclusions have been drawn by MSB
its annual report for serious IT incidents, i.e. that most of the incidents are due to
human mistakes, see https://www.msb.se/sv/aktuellt/nyheter/2020/april/arsrapporten-forallvarliga-it-incidenter-2019-ar-slappt/
14

1 3 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Maria Angelica Westerberg. At the final
IT security specialist Ulrika is also handling the case
Sundling and the lawyer Jonas Agnvall participated.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2020-12-17 (This is an electronic signature)

Copy for the attention of:
The Swedish Customs Service's data protection officer

1 4 (15)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-13112

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

1 5 (15)

