THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

June 18, 2019

 

 

  LfDI Baden-Württemberg imposes first fine on police officers

- Employees of public bodies do not enjoy "immunity" from illegal

Data processing for private purposes –

 
Personal data obtained for official purposes due to unlawful processing
The fine office of the State Commissioner for Data Protection has private purposes
and the Freedom of Information (LfDI) with decision of May 09, 2019 against a
Police officers fined 1,400 euros. This is it
the first fine against an employee of a public body after
entry into force of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the new state
Data Protection Act (LDSG).
 
The police officer asked without official reference using his official
chen user ID via the central traffic information system (ZEVIS).
Federal Motor Transport Authority the holder data regarding the license plate number of a private
chance acquaintance. With the personal details he gained in this way, he then led
carried out a so-called SARS inquiry at the Federal Network Agency, in which he
In addition to the personal data of the injured party, the landline and telephone numbers stored there
Mobile phone numbers requested. Using the mobile phone number obtained in this way
the police officer took - without official reasons or the consent of the
damaged - contact them by telephone.
 
Through the ZEVIS and SARS request for private purposes and the use of the
The police officer has the mobile phone number obtained in this way for private contact
Personal data from the databases of the Federal Motor Transport Authority or the
processed by the Federal Network Agency for non-statutory purposes. This
Violation is not attributable to the police officer's office, as this
Act not in the exercise of his official duties, but exclusively
committed for private purposes. The prohibition of punishment of § 28 LDSG, according to which the
provisions of the GDPR cannot be imposed on public bodies
not in the present case, since it is neither a case of misconduct attributable to the department
In the case of the actions in question, the person concerned still acted as his own
public body i.S.d. § 2 paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 LDSG is to be qualified.
 
 

 

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

Within the framework of fines according to Art. 83 Para. 5 DS-GVO, a fine was in
Amount of 1,400 euros appropriate. When measuring was in particular the
To take account of the fact that it was a first offense in which
only one person was affected.
 
The fine is now final.
 
LfDI Dr. Brink on this:
"Employees of public bodies also have to observe the applicable data protection rules
respect, think highly of. Although the state legislature has public bodies - unlike private
- exempt from sanctions in the event of data protection violations. if
Employees of public authorities, however, receive data for private purposes
use it against you personally in serious individual cases
a fine will be imposed."
 
 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716.

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

 

