1/15

 File No.: PS/00241/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated March 9, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against IBERCAJA BANCO, S.A. with CIF A99319030 (in
below, the claimed party). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:
following:

Due to the processing of a family inheritance, the claimed entity provided the
details of the claimant and her minor children to the lawyer for the rest of the
joint heirs, who drew up a private document of property partition from which the
claimant was unaware of its existence and in which the data of it and its
children. Therefore, to know the origin of the data contained in said document,
requested IBERCAJA access to his data and that of his children, on February 17,
2021, receiving a partial response from the entity, on March 8, 2021.

Likewise, it files a claim against the entity claimed for the opening of a
account, for the disposition of inheritance funds, in the name of his minor son
age, without the knowledge or consent of the claimant (legal representative).

It also indicates the transfer of your personal data, those of your children, and those of your husband
deceased, including ID, family book, death certificate of her husband, and
bank account of the claimant to the family representative of the rest of the heirs
who in turn delivered these to ***COMPANY.1, with which the deceased person
had taken out life insurance, without the prior knowledge or consent of the
claimant for this assignment and treatment.

Along with the claim, the following is provided:

- Private document of acceptance and partition, signed by all of them and where
they reflect the specific adjudications to be made and their conformity to the aforementioned distribution. This
document is made with the personal data of all co-heirs and
signed by all except the claimant on behalf of her two children
minors.

- Documentation accrediting the exercise of the right of access before IBERCAJA.

- Partial response provided by the representative of IBERCAJA.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/15

- Documentation accrediting the exercise of the right of access before ***COMPANY.1
dated February 22, 2021.

- Payments of the liquidation of the death insurance in the current accounts of the
minors with dates of January 25, 2021.

- Response from IBERCAJA to the claim presented by the claimant indicating
that your entity does not transfer data to third parties outside the legal services
existing.

- Email sent to the claimant by the family lawyer stating that
the data was provided by IBERCAJA and that with them the sheet of
application for distribution of assets.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 01/28/2022 as stated in the
acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

On May 17, 2021, this Agency received a written response
indicating that the shares of the investment fund awarded to each heir
as a consequence of the inheritance they had to be transferred to each one of them with the
net asset value that they had on the date of death, to avoid
originate tax capital gains, and, subsequently, each heir to dispose of them
under a separate securities account you decide when you want to redeem them. For
This required the opening of an administration and custody account
(securities account) in the name of each heir. Also, the claimed entity
argues that it is necessary, for operational reasons, that said securities account
has linked a savings account with identical ownership as support of
debits and credits. In the accounts of the children of the claimant, the claimant appears as
disponent, since he is his legal representative. Finally, they report that
Currently, the private document of acceptance and partition of the
deceased person's estate signed by all heirs except for the
claimant, on behalf of his two minor children. This is the reason
whereby, to date, even though the necessary accounts for the distribution of
of the adjudications of the aforementioned inheritance, have not been able to materialize.

THIRD: On August 6, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/15

article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

The claimed party states that the claimant, through her lawyer, on the date
September 30, 2020, requests to process the testamentary of the deceased person
for the disposition of his assets by his heirs and sends for this the
documentation that has been presented in the General deputation of Aragon. Although
It is not specified in this writing what types of documents, it follows that they have been
the identification documents of the claimant and her minor children.

However, the lawyer for the claimant states, in a brief presented in this
Agency dated April 24, 2022 that provided IBERCAJA with the data
of the claimant and her minor children in order to obtain the
certificates of bank balances of the deceased person and to be able to manage the
acceptance of the inheritance.

It is inferred, therefore, that the claimant transferred her data and that of her children to the entity
IBERCAJA. However, the controversy arises about the purpose for which
yielded, their treatment, and the possible recipients.

Regarding the right of access before the claimed

According to the documentation provided by the claimant, she exercised the right of access
before IBERCAJA on February 17, 2021 requesting:

(i) Copy of the personal data that is the object of treatment,
(ii) The purposes of the treatment and the categories of personal data that are processed, and
(iii) The recipients or categories of recipients to whom your
data including, where appropriate, recipients in third parties or organizations
international.

On March 8, 2021, this entity sent the claimant the data
identification, contact, financial, and current positions held with that
entity. However, not all of the information requested by the
claimant and collected in article 15 of the GDPR.

Regarding the treatment of the data of the defendant and her minor children

It is verified that the data of the minors were processed by the entity IBERCAJA
to open bank accounts in your name.

A copy of the document reflecting the consent was requested from the IBERCAJA entity
granted by the claimant for the treatment of the data of her minor children, with
on February 16, 2022, this Agency received a written statement of allegations
stating that the authorization or consent of the claimant is not available,
in the name and representation of their children, for the opening of the aforementioned accounts, and
reiterate, that the opening of the securities accounts and associated checking accounts were

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/15

necessary, and are part of the procedures to be carried out for the distribution and adjudication of
estate of the deceased person.
They add that the claimant, through her lawyer, on September 30,
2020, requests the processing of the testamentary of the deceased person for the disposition of
their assets by their heirs and sends for this the documentation that has been
submitted to the Aragon Provincial Council to settle the percentage of
participation in the estate of the deceased person in favor of the children of the
claimant.

The claimed party attaches to its statement of allegations a copy of the resolution of the
National Stock Market Commission to the claim made by the
claimant for the same facts.

This document, among other statements, states:

"that an essential document for the processing of the testamentary is the
document of acceptance and partition of the inheritance. So financial institutions
They will not be able to proceed with the adjudication of the assets they have in deposit
if they do not receive the distribution document, public or private, but, in any case,
accepted by all heirs. In the case that concerns us, it has been
recognized by both parties that the estate of the deceased is
blocked in the phase prior to the distribution of the hereditary flow due to lack of supply
of the corresponding document of acceptance and partition of the inheritance accepted
for all heirs."

Regarding the securities accounts and checking accounts created prior to the
consent of acceptance and distribution of the inheritance, in this resolution, the CNMV
notes:

“[…] prior to carrying out the change of ownership of the
financial instruments acquired mortis causa, it is necessary that the
beneficiaries have open securities accounts in their name, with the same
holders who are awarded the assets subject to the inheritance -of
Shared ownership in the event that the inheritance is maintained pro indiviso or
individualized ownership in the event that it proceeds to the distribution of the same- for
that the adjudicated values be deposited in them, accounts that will be well
in the same entity or in a different one. That is, nothing prevents the actions
foreclosed are deposited in a securities account opened in another entity
other than the one that makes the adjudication, proceeding to carry out the
adjudication and transfer of securities in the same act […] However, in the
in the event that what was acquired by title mortis causa were shares of investment funds
investment as occurs in this case, to be able to adjudicate and transfer the
shares acquired from another entity (change of dealer) must
verify that the other entity sells those same shares, which
It doesn't always happen."

And they conclude in this regard that according to the statements of IBERCAJA "[...] said
accounts were not active but in a preliminary state, pending acceptance
by the headlines. Based on what has been said, you state that you found the
accounts in the "unfinished business" section on your web profile”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/15

Regarding the claimant's request for cancellation of the disputed accounts
On behalf of his children, the CNMV states in this resolution:

"It has been proven that on August 6, 2021 you expressly requested in
his letter before the SAC the cancellation of the three pre-prepared accounts for being
dissatisfied with them. However, the entity has proven that it did not cancel
the accounts until October 6, 2021, so we consider that there was a
unjustified delay of approximately two months in attending to your
petition."
In addition, in the expansion of the claim dated July 28,
2021 corresponding to the request for allegations sent by the BANK OF
SPAIN (hereinafter, BdE) to IBERCAJA due to a claim filed by
the claimant before the regulator, IBERCAJA states in its SECOND allegation "In
Consequently, we have no record in this entity that he has given an order that
the balances corresponding to your children are transferred to accounts opened in your name
in other entities, or if your preference will be to open new accounts for minors in
Ibercaja.”

In this sense, according to the criteria of the BdE expressed in the chapter "Criteria of the
Department of Market Conduct and Claims" of its annual report of
2018 published in 2019, in point 9.2.7 "How to dispose of the funds"
(regarding the processing of an inheritance), states in the first paragraph:

“ […] the heirs must instruct the entity regarding the way in which
they want the funds to be delivered to them, logically based on their
needs and interests —cash, transfer or transfer, bank check, etc.,
without it being possible in any case for the entity to impose the means of disposal.”

and later

“In the same way, in the cases in which the claimants have argued that,
In order to dispose of the inheritance funds, the entity required them to open
of a current account in the entity, this DCMR has stated that, since for
The opening of a current account must have the express consent of
both parties (entity and client), such imposition is not adjusted to the good
practices, also recalling that, once the testamentary file has been resolved,
It is your obligation to make available to the heirs the funds deposited in the
entity, in the manner in which they determine and in accordance with the awards
established.”

Attached to the file, as an associated object, is the chapter "Criteria for the
Department of Market Conduct and Claims" of the annual report of
2018 of the BdE.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is verified as stated in the document
previously mentioned, that these accounts were opened by IBERCAJA without
consent or knowledge of the claimant.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/15

From the actions carried out and the information obtained, the inspection concludes the following:
following:

- Regarding the possible transfer of data: Given the contradictions of all the
interested parties and the lack of documents evidencing the facts, it has not been possible
determine with certainty which party provided the data. However, the entity
***COMPANY.1 did not inform the claimant of the origin of the data at any time
that he dealt with for the liquidation of the death insurance of the deceased.

- Regarding the right of access: It is verified that the claimed party did not
responded to the exercise of the claimant's right of access in the terms
contemplated in article 15 of the GDPR, despite the fact that the claimant requested it
expressly in those terms. Especially important could be the
breach of point c of this article since your data could have been transferred to
third parties.

- Regarding the treatment of the data of the defendant and her minor children: as regards
Regarding IBERCAJA, it is verified that for the distribution and adjudication of assets
of the estate of the deceased person, it is necessary to open accounts in the name
of the heirs Nevertheless:

1. Based on the resolution of the CNMV, the opening of these accounts would not have
necessarily to be carried out in the same entity as the deceased holder, but rather
It could be done in any other financial entity at the choice of the heirs
for current accounts and, for the adjudication of the securities that appear in
the inheritance of the deceased person, in another financial entity that commercialized
this values. It is also necessary to point out a greater loss for the claimant, which
these accounts were opened at the IBERCAJA branch in ***LOCATION.1
(TERUEL) while the claimant and her children have their residence in
SARAGOSSA.

2. Given that the document of acceptance and adjudication of the inheritance is not
signed by all the heirs, or their legal representatives, and, therefore, this
adjudication is blocked, no justification is found for the opening of the
controversial accounts and the processing of personal data of minors who
this has entailed

3. It has also been verified that these accounts were opened, even in a state
preliminary, without informing the mother of the minors or obtaining her consent
signed, contrary to the criteria expressed by the BdE and what is established in the
article 7 point 2 of the LOPDGDD. It must be emphasized that, although these
accounts were not active, as indicated in the pleadings of
IBERCAJA and in the resolution of the CNMV, the treatment without the consent of the
personal data of minors and their inclusion in the information systems of
IBERCAJA was also produced, being the state of the accounts a mere
operational question.

For all the above, possible violations of the regulations of
data protection in the treatment of the data of the minor children of the company
claimant since the latter, as legal guardian of the minors, was not informed of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/15

processing of these data nor was your consent obtained. For more abundance,
the treatment was totally unnecessary as inheritance was blocked and it was not possible to
execute the sharing agreement.

FIFTH: On June 6, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
pursuant to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged
violation of article 15 of the GDPR and article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in article
83.5 of the GDPR

SIXTH: Notified the aforementioned start agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a pleading in which, in summary,
stated the following:

1.- In its first allegation, the defendant argues that the infringement of Article 15
would be prescribed since more than a year has elapsed from the moment
in which the infringement occurred (03/08/2021) until the moment in which it is notified
the agreement to start the disciplinary procedure (06/07/2022).

2.- Next, the claimed party practically reproduces in its entirety the
arguments given during the transfer process, understanding that the violation of the
Article 6 is not such since the opening of the accounts in the name of the son of the
claimant is necessary for the processing of the inheritance and that it was requested
by the claimant's attorney on September 30, 2020. Insists that the
opening of bank accounts was necessary for the processing of the inheritance and
that, even if he later wanted to transfer it to another bank, it was
an essential prior step since the affected investment fund is only
marketed by the claimed party. He goes on to explain that the
distribution of the inheritance because the defendant has not signed the document of
acceptance of the same but yes, specify, the request for processing in the entity
banking and it is for this last reason that the accounts were opened with the
in order to expedite the procedures as much as possible. It also informs that, in the
Currently, said accounts are canceled at the request of the claimant,
but, he clarifies, they must be opened again when the parties reach an agreement
for the distribution of the inheritance.

For all of the foregoing, the claimed party concludes that there has been no infringement
of article 6.1 of the GDPR since the claimant requested through her lawyer the
probate processing for disposition of funds.

SEVENTH: On August 2, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated, in the
that a response was given to the allegations presented and the imposition of a
sanction for the violation of article 6 of the GDPR, granting a new term for the
presentation of allegations and filing of the violation of article 15.

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity against the
initiation agreement, the following was indicated in the proposal:

1.- In relation to the first of the allegations regarding the prescription of the
infringement of article 15 of the GDPR, we proceed to estimate it.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/15

2.- In relation to the second of your allegations, as the party has already indicated
claimed reproduces practically in its entirety the arguments given during the
transfer process, without these being understood as justifications for the actions
made by the bank since it does not meet the requirements established in
Article 6 of the GDPR. And this because, as stated in the initiation agreement,
even when the remission of documentation by the
representative of the claimant for the request of the bank balances, has not been
provided in no case an express request for the processing of the testamentary or
proof of communication of accurate information on the necessary procedures
for this or request for informed consent for the processing of data by
part of the bank to the now claimant.

EIGHTH: On August 11, 2022, a writing of
allegations of the defendant against the proposed resolution in which, in summary,
adduces the following:

The defendant begins her writing by reiterating her disagreement with the infringement charged
insisting that the data processing obeys the request for processing of the
probate issued by the claimant's attorney and, therefore, was
legitimized to carry it out when it is necessary to open the accounts. Insist on the
need to open said accounts to be able to award the shares
corresponding to the inheritance to the children of the claimant, not having completed
said adjudication process due to the lack of signature of the complainant of one of the
documents necessary to carry out the distribution, due to discrepancies with the rest of the
heirs as to the amounts to be distributed.

Next, it alludes to the criteria of the National Securities Market Commission
(CNMV) that the shares of an investment fund must be awarded
initially to the heirs in the entity of origin, not being able to proceed to the
transfer of the same to another entity without the prior adjudication in the aforementioned
source entity.

He continues his letter stating that the criteria of the Bank of Spain to which he makes
reference to the claimant are not applicable in this case since they refer to
other aspects of the probate, and must be addressed only with respect to the
investment funds as stated by the CNMV

Likewise, it shows that the data of the claimant's children has already been
were in the Ibercaja systems prior to the opening of the accounts
now controversial.

All of the above leads you to conclude that there has not been a violation of the article
6 of the GDPR since the claimant had requested the processing of the
probate for the disposition of funds being irrelevant, from his point of view
view, the fact that the distribution of assets is blocked due to the lack of
consent of the claimant.

Finally, it requests that, in the event that the infringement is considered to have been committed,
take into account as mitigating the lack of intentionality of the claimed, the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/15

absence of benefits and the fact that the accounts were canceled at the request of
the claimant.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The IBERCAJA entity has opened bank accounts,
even in a preliminary state, without informing the mother of the minors or seeking her
specific and unequivocal consent.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

In relation to the allegations presented in response to the proposed resolution,
make the following considerations:

II

1.- In relation to the repeated affirmation that the opening of the accounts responds
to the request for probate processing, it is insisted that it does not imply
per se that the entity can use all the data in its possession to
any purpose but it is necessary to have the informed consent for the
treatment of the same in the specific purposes for which they were provided.
Likewise, it is reiterated that there is no evidence in the file that the
by the entity to accurately communicate the data claimant
that were going to be treated to carry out the necessary procedures to proceed
manage a testamentary that, in any case, as has been shown, was not
possible to carry out because they did not have the necessary permits for this purpose
since all the heirs have not reached an agreement nor act, therefore, this one, in power
of the bank.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/15

Subsequent references to the criteria of the CNMV or the Bank of Spain
relating to the need to allocate the shares of an investment fund to the
heirs in the entity of origin are, thus, irrelevant since in the present
file it has been revealed that the necessary requirements are not met
in order to understand that legitimate processing has occurred. And this because not
informed consent has been produced by the claimant for the
treatment of your data and those of your minor children nor do the rest of the
the assumptions of article 6.1 of the GDPR that would allow this to occur.

II

In relation to the alleged infringement of article 15 of the GDPR, as it was established
manifest in the initiation agreement, in the present case it has been considered that the
It would fall within the assumption contained in article 74.c) of the LOPDGDD,
since the claimed party responded to the party's request for access
claimant, even if it was incomplete, and there has not been a
absolute disregard of the right of access (lack of response) which would constitute the
infringing type included for the purposes of prescription in article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD
and this because, as the AN stated in its Judgment of June 18, 2009, the lack of
response to access requests configures the full obstruction of the
right of access, which has not occurred in this case.

IV.

Article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes the assumptions that allow the use of
processing of personal data.

“a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;
d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

In turn, article 6.1 of the LOPDGDD, indicates, on the treatment of data
based on the consent of the affected party that: “1. In accordance with

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/15

provided in article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is understood by
consent of the affected any manifestation of free, specific,
informed and unequivocal by which he accepts, either by means of a declaration or a
clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data concerning him (…)”.

Thus, the fact that the now claimant had provided her personal data to the
entity claimed to obtain bank balances, does not allow said
entity its treatment for other purposes, such as the creation of how much
bank in the name of one of his minor children.

Likewise, article 6.2 of the LOPDGDD indicates, regarding the treatment based on the
consent, that:

"2. When it is intended to base the processing of data on the consent of the
affected for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to clearly state
specific and unequivocal that such consent is granted for all of them.”

Known facts about the processing of personal data are constitutive
of an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 6 of the
GDPR mentioned, since there is no free and informed consent for the treatment of
personal data for the purposes for which they were processed, nor does any
another legitimizing base of those contemplated in said article.

The infringement for which the claimed party is held responsible in the present
procedure is typified in article 83 of the GDPR which, under the rubric
“General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
overall annual total business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The LOPDGDD, for the purposes of the prescription of the infringement, qualifies in its article 72.1.
very serious infringement, in this case the limitation period is three years, "b)
The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

V

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the
facts exposed suppose a violation of the provisions of article 6.1 of the
GDPR, since it processed the personal data of the complaining party and their children
minors without their express consent to do so.

SAW

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/15

In order to establish the administrative fine that should be imposed, the following
provisions contained in article 83 of the GDPR, which states:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective,
deterrents

provided

and

 

 

 

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/15

Regarding this last section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article
76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanction of
fine to be imposed on the entity claimed as responsible for a violation of the
provided in article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR,
The following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

As aggravating factors:

 - The intentionality or negligence of the infringement (article 83.2.b, GDPR), given that the
The claimed party processed the personal data of the claiming party and their children both
previously and after confirming the will of the claimant for the
cessation of their treatment.

In this regard, it is necessary to cite the Judgment of the National Court of October 17,
2007 (rec. 63/2006), which indicates, in relation to entities whose activity carries out
coupled with continuous processing of customer data, that: "(...) the Supreme Court
has understood that imprudence exists whenever a legal duty is neglected
of care, that is, when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. AND
In assessing the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined,
when the activity of the appellant is constant and abundant handling of data from
personal character must be insisted on the rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the
legal provisions in this regard.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/15

- The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
treatment of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the GDPR
in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD)

- The affectation of the rights of minors (article 83.2.k, of the GDPR in relation to
with article 76.2.f, of the LOPDGDD).

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the defendant and set it at the amount of 100,000
€ for the violation of article 6 of the GDPR typified in article 83.5 a) GDPR and
72.1b) of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency

RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE IBERCAJA BANCO, S.A., with NIF A99319030, for a
violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD and
in article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine of €100,000 (ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND EUROS) and
ARCHIVE the violation of article 15 of the GDPR, typified in article 74.c) of the
LOPDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to IBERCAJA BANCO, S.A..

THIRD: Warn the penalized person that they must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment period established in art. 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, of 29
July, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, through its
income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document, in the restricted account no. ES00 0000 0000
0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its
collection in executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/15

Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

