THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

June 27, 2019

 

 

  Data breaches in registration information for election advertising

 

Parties (and other sponsors of election proposals) can be registered by the registration authorities

under certain conditions, data from eligible voters for personalized

receive election advertising. This led to the recent European and local elections

to a large number of complaints to the State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information. Those affected were often simply not aware that

Registration authorities may release data to parties for election advertising if they

not make use of their right to object. In these cases submitted

reference to the legal situation. However, there were also massive data breaches at Mel-

authorities that led to illegal data transfers. On-

Due to errors, data from non-entitled voters or persons

for which transmission blocks are entered. This led, for example,

that infants and young children received personalized election advertising!
 

“Parties take a prominent role in the democratic decision-making process

role and are therefore privileged under registration law,” emphasizes the state representative for

data protection and freedom of information, Dr. Stefan Brink, in this connection

men hang out. The multitude of breakdowns in data transmissions for the purpose of

However, election advertising shows that there is an urgent need for action by the registration authorities.

Even simple organizational and technical measures such as raising awareness

tion and training of employees dealing with information from the register of

field of elections or the application of the four-eyes principle in data processing

tion, could help to significantly reduce such incidents. That

Citizens are angry about such data breaches, is absolutely understandable. "Little-

ger resentment and incomprehension among the citizens as well as a targeted election campaign

Ultimately, exercise helps everyone involved,” Brink continues.
 

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

Not only for information from the population register for the purpose of election advertising, but also

for data transmissions to address book publishers for the publication of address books

and to elected officials, press and radio on certain age and marriage anniversaries

there is a legal right to object. This is opposite the registration office

exercise is not subject to any conditions and does not need to be justified

will. An objection that has been filed is valid indefinitely, but can be withdrawn at any time.

be taken.
 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716.

 

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

