

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing when using cloud computing services by the bank (the company MONETA Money Bank, a.s.)



Based on the control plan of the Office, the Office carried out an inspection focused on the implementation of the conditions for the protection of personal data according to Act No. 101/2000 Coll. regarding compliance with obligations in the processing of personal data by the bank when using cloud computing services.

The controlled person is the controller of personal data within the meaning of ยง 4 letter j) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., as it established the purpose and means of personal data processing. As part of the inspection, the Office focused in particular on the conditions for the security of personal data.

The Office came to the conclusion that the inspected person proceeded in the field of security in accordance with ยง 13 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., i.e. that it took sufficient measures to minimize the risk of information leakage and that it properly documented these measures. The Office also evaluated the measures taken by the controlled person in the field of automated processing as sufficient. At the same time, the controlled person appropriately evaluated the risks for personal data resulting from its activity and from the activity and number of its employees.

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The inspection was conducted by inspector Ing. Josef Vacula.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Inspection of the processing of personal data when using cloud computing services by the bank (the company MONETA Money Bank, a.s.)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



