 

 
Anu Talus 
Chair of the European Data Protection Board 
 

Mr.Viola  
European Commission 
Rue de la Loi 51,  
1040 Brussels 
Belgium   
 

Mr. Guersent 
European Commission  
Place Madou 1 
    1210 Brussel 
    Belgium 

 
Brussels, 18 July 2024 

 
Subject: Guidelines on the interplay between DMA and GDPR 
 
Dear Mr. Viola, dear Mr. Guersent, 

Thank you for your letter concerning the EDPB’s ongoing work on Guidelines on the interplay between 
the Digital Markets Act (DMA) and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). I would also like to 
take this opportunity to thank you for the constructive exchanges in the context of the DMA High Level 
Group  (DMA  HLG)  and  in  the  context  of  the  EDPB  Task  Force  on  Competition  &  Consumer  Law.  I 
consider these fruitful exchanges instrumental to promoting cross-regulatory consistency. 

The EDPB’s commitment to foster cross-regulatory consistency is an integral part of the EDPB Strategy 
2024–2027. Developing guidance on the interplay between the application of the GDPR and other EU 
legal acts, such as the DMA, is one of the key actions listed in the EDPB strategy. Securing cooperation 
with other regulatory authorities on matters with an impact on data protection, including authorities 
competent under other legal acts, such as the DMA, is another key action.  

The EDPB initiated work on Guidelines on the interplay between the DMA and GDPR to offer guidance 
on  how  to  interpret  and  apply  the  GDPR when  gatekeepers  process  personal data  in  the  contexts 
covered by the DMA1. The DMA confirms that it applies without prejudice to the rules contained in 
the GDPR, and that the processing of personal data by gatekeepers therefore remains subject to the 
supervision of independent data protection authorities. In this regard, the EDPB has full competence 
to  issue  guidelines  on  any  matter  concerning  the  application  of  the  GDPR  and  our  work  on  the 
guidelines does not seek to impinge on the sole competence of the Commission to interpret and apply 
the DMA as such.  

This  notwithstanding,  I  appreciate  your  suggestion  and  willingness  to  discuss  and  explore  the 
appropriate shape and form of a project aimed at providing coherent guidance on the intersection of 
the DMA and the GDPR, reflecting jointly the respective views of the competent regulators.  

 

1 Given the transversal nature of the GDPR, the EDPB has already on several occasions issued guidance on the 
interplay between the GDPR and other instruments of EU law (such as the PSD2 and the ePrivacy Directive).  
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

A joint deliverable between the EDPB and the European Commission could indeed be an important 
opportunity to foster legal certainty, as well as cross-regulatory consistency, including in enforcement, 
and so could provide significant value above-and-beyond that of independently-produced documents.  

The EDPB is therefore open to further discuss the parameters and steps towards the preparation of a 
joint  deliverable  in  an  ad-hoc  format  that  would  preserve  the  respective  competences,  roles  and 
independence of the EDPB and the Commission. I understand that the discussion will take place at a 
technical level to clarify these matters. Nevertheless, please be reassured that I remain available to 
discuss the matter further if needed. 

 
Yours sincerely, 

Anu Talus 
 
 
Cc : Ms. Anna Gallego, Director General, DG JUST. 
 

 

 

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

