Decision

Diary no

2019-12-13

DI-2018-22737

Nusvar AB

Supervision according to the Credit Information Act
(1973:1173) and the EU's data protection regulation 2016/679 - Nusvar AB
Content
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision ................................................ .....................................2
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ............................2
What emerged in the case ............................................. ..........................3
The company's information regarding the requirement of legitimate need and
credit report copy ................................................ ...................................6
The company's information about the business as a retailer of Yellow-Bellys
credit information................................................... ..........................................6
The company's view on the definition of credit reporting activities and
scope of the certificate of issue ................................................ ........................7
Justification of the decision .............................................. ..........................................8
Credit reporting activities .................................................... ........................9
The assessment of whether the Company's dissemination of information constitutes
credit reporting operations................................................. ....................10
Details of legal offences................................................. ........................12
The requirement for data minimization .............................................. ........................13
Requirement of legitimate need and credit information copy...................................14
Selection of Corrective Actions................................................... ................................14
Possible intervention measures ................................................ ............................15
Penalty charges to be imposed................................................. ..........................16
Circumstances of importance for determining the amount of the penalty fee .16
General provisions ................................................ ..............................16
The circumstances of the present case................................... ..........17
Determining the size of the sanction amount ............................................18
How to appeal............................................... ..............................................18

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Data Inspectorate states that Nusvar AB (org. no. 556991-1224) under
the period December 2018 – 8 April 2019 has conducted credit reporting activities and in doing so has
1. violated article 10 of the data protection regulation and section 6, second paragraph
the Credit Information Act by processing information about
violations of the law without the Datainspektionen's consent,
2. violated Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation by processing
personal data that is too extensive, inadequate and irrelevant i
relationship to the purpose (credit reporting purposes),
3. acted in violation of Section 9 of the Credit Information Act by not
comply with the requirement of legitimate need when credit information is provided
if a natural person who is not a trader, and
4. acted in violation of Section 11 of the Credit Information Act by not sending
it requested a credit report copy when a credit report
disclosed about a natural person.
The Data Inspection Authority decides with the support of ch. 6. Section 3 of the Data Protection Act and
articles 58.2 and 83 of the data protection regulation that Nusvar AB must pay a
administrative penalty fee of EUR 35,000.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has drawn attention to complaints from the public
that Nusvar AB (the Company) disclosed personal data concerning, among other things
financial information about all residents of Sweden who are 16 years of age and older via
The company's website www.mrkoll.se (the website). The website is covered by
such a certificate of issue as regulated in ch. 1. Sections 5-7 of the Freedom of Expression Foundation (1991:1469).
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has initiated supervision of the Company with the aim of investigating to what extent
The company via the website conducts activities that are to be regarded as
credit reporting activities and, if this is the case, to the extent that the Company has complied
the data protection regulation and the credit information act's prohibition against
processing of information about offenses involving crimes and
the data protection regulation's requirements for data minimization as well as
the Credit Information Act's requirement of legitimate need and credit information copy.
The supervisory case was initiated with a supervisory letter on 18 December 2018. Answer
on the supervisory letter received on 30 December 2018. Datainspektionen

2 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

conducted an on-site inspection at the Company on April 9, 2019. Minutes
from the inspection has been drawn up and forwarded to the Company for comments.
Opinion on minutes received on May 5, 2019. A supplementary letter
from the Company came in on 29 May 2019.
What emerged in the case
The website is a commercial business which mainly
is conducted on the basis of advertising revenue. The purpose of the Website is to
make available public information about private persons of public interest,
such as, for example, social security number, housing situation, vehicle ownership,
legal information and certain other information that is not public,
for example telephone number. The user logs into the website and can take
part of the published information free of charge.
It has emerged during the investigation that the Company receives information to
The website from around ten different suppliers, among others
The Swedish Companies Registration Office and the credit reporting company Yellow-Belly Decision Systems
AB (Yellow-Belly). The business started when the Company received a so
called base lift regarding basic data from the credit information company YellowBelly during November 2018. Yellow-Belly then lifted a
population registration database, which included social security numbers and addresses.
The company since then downloaded updated information from Yellow-Belly each
14th day regarding social security numbers, addresses, company information and
cluster information, such as aggregated area information and aggregated
financial information. The financial information that is aggregated consists of
of income information and payment notes.
All information is compiled by the Company. Some information is
cluster information, which refers to information about approximately 22 to 2,000 people
which are lumped together. The cluster compilations are based on where it is from
the user wanted person lives. The economic cluster information
consists of around 22-28 people. The Company then interprets the information and
creates comprehensible texts based on this data available on
the website. The information is presented on the website in different "blocks".
Especially about the Summary block
In the "summary" block, some information from the others is compiled
the blocks. The economic cluster information shows, for example
information on payment notes. If within the cluster there are more
payment notes than zero, it appears that there are

3 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

payment notes in the relevant area. No one is then left
individual information about the wanted person. If there are none
payment notes within the cluster, i.e. if none of the 22-28 people
that is part of the wanted person's cluster has someone
payment notice, it is expressly stated that the wanted person
lacks payment notes, "X has no payment notes".
Furthermore, the block "Summary" shows how often the person in question is
searched on the Website. This is information that the Company itself produces
based on how many times the person has been searched and displayed on the Website during the month. Information about the number of searches on the Website
does not mean that anyone has paid to receive information about
the person in question. The information about the number of searches is reset to zero at each
turn of the month.
Especially about the block Prosecutions, judgments and legal proceedings
The company compiles the information, which comes from the courts
(the district courts, the courts of appeal, the Supreme Court and the administrative courts i
depending on the nature of the target). For the case
a wanted person has been charged with one or more crimes, this appears
on the Website in the current block by that if the wanted
the person says, for example, “X has been charged in a court of law in a legal case which
intended criminal case" (this information is also presented in the block
"Summary").
Users of the Website can take part in the judgment itself directly at
The website by paying SEK 99 to the Company. When the payment
carried out, a summary of the relevant judgments including
the judgment directly on the Website in the block in question. The company does not
own summaries of the judgments, but these are delivered by the courts.
Users who have paid to see the judgments have access to them
for 24 hours on the Website.
Especially about the block Economy
The company compiles the financial information. This is based on
cluster information that Yellow-Belly has supplied and the aggregations that
Yellow-Belly has done and that's how the information under the headings “They
most earn", "A neighbor (or the person himself) earns" and "The salary indicator"
be developed.

4 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

The cluster information consists of around 22-28 people who are selected based on it
the wanted person's address, which is then lumped together. The information in
the salary indicator is based on a comparison of the entire country's median salary with
the median salary in the current cluster.
Under the heading "Income current year" there are the six lines "Number
payment notes”, “Income from service”, “Taxable income”,
"Income from capital", "Active business activity" and "Passive
commercial activity”. These lines are, with one exception, not filled in for a long time
the individual user does not buy a credit report for SEK 49.
The exception is the line "Number of payment notes" in the case where none
person in the wanted person's cluster has a payment notice,
i.e. in the same situation as it says "X has no payment notes" in
the "Summary" block. In these cases, it appears in the line for “Number
payment remarks" state that the wanted person has "0 items". If someone in
the cluster has a payment note, the field is left blank. These six lines
covered by the Company's certificate of issue. It is thus the Company that is responsible for
these six lines. The content of, and responsibility for, the information in the six lines
however, changes if the user chooses to purchase a credit report for 49
crowns of Yellow-Belly, see below.
Especially about the Housing and neighbors block
The company compiles information about residents and neighbors, which will come
from the Land Survey. Information on the estimated value of any condominium
or property is based on an algorithm that the Company has developed which is based
on broker statistics.
Especially about the Popularity block
The company compiles the information. This is the same information that has
developed under the "Summary" block above. In this block it appears
also how wanted the person is under the heading "Top Placement" and which ones
other people who have also been searched on the Website under the heading
"Also visited". The information in this block is reset at the end of each month.
Especially about the block About the neighborhood
The company compiles the information, which is mainly a repetition of
other information on the Website and is mainly based on aggregated
information. This block also shows the average age among the neighbours
the wanted person and the average income in the neighborhood.

5 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

Other blocks that appear on the website:











Phone number
Civil registration
Corporate commitment
Vehicle ownership
Personal connections
Birthday
Zodiac signs
Marriage
The household

The company's information regarding the requirement of legitimate need and
credit report copy
The Company does not consider that the Company conducts credit reporting activities through
to provide the website. The company therefore does not need to take into account
the provisions on legitimate need and credit reference copy.
Credit reporting activities are only conducted when the user via
the website buys a full credit report if it searched for 49
crowns. This credit reporting activity is conducted by Yellow-Belly. The company
is only Yellow-Belly's dealer.
The company's information about the business as a reseller of YellowBelly's credit information
The company states that the company is a dealer of Yellow-Bellys
credit reporting product on the website. A credit report costs 49
crowns. The purchased credit report information is displayed directly on MrKolls
website in the "Finance" block by filling in the information below
the headings "Income current year" and the now added headings
"Debts and payment notes" and "Bankruptcy". Under the title
"Income current year" is in this mode the line "Number of payment notes"
not included.
Under the heading "Debts and payment notes" there are eight lines
regarding traditional credit reporting information. Under the title
"Bankruptcy" contains a line indicating whether the requested person is in personal bankruptcy
or not.

6 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

The information published when the user purchases a credit report for
SEK 49 is not in the Company's database for the Website. It's Yellow-Belly
which fills in the fields on the Website when the user orders a credit report for SEK 49. For users who are inside the site without having
ordered any credit information from Yellow-Belly, these fields are masked.
Yellow-Belly sends a credit report copy to the requested and
responsible for the user having a legitimate need.
The company's view on the definition of credit reporting activities and
the scope of the certificate of issue
The company believes that the information that the wanted person does not have
some payment notes, (X has no payment notes), i
the "Summary" block does not constitute credit reference information because
it is cluster-based information that is based on not any person in it
wanted cluster has a payment note.
The company believes that the information in the "Finance" block, that it sought
the person has "Number of payment notes 0 pcs", does not constitute
credit reference information because it is cluster-based information
which is based on the fact that no person in the wanted person's cluster has one
payment note.
The company considers that the information about the estimated value of any property i
the block "Residential and neighbours", does not constitute credit reference information then
it is based on broker statistics.
The company considers that the information under the heading "Salary indicator" does not constitute
credit reporting information. This information does not say anything about it
wanted person as such, as there is no information on an individual level.
The website is covered in its entirety by the certificate of issue. It is only
The company that can change the content on the Website.
As far as the "Economy" block is concerned, however, the situation is special. The block
"Finance" is covered in its entirety by the certificate of issue as long as the lines below
the headings "Income for the current year", "Debts and payment notes" and
"Bankruptcy" are not completed. These rows are, with one exception, masked like this
as long as the individual user does not buy a credit report for SEK 49.
The exception is the information filled in by the Company itself "Number

7 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

payment notes 0 pcs" under the heading "Income in the current year". This one
information is thus part of the Website and is covered by the certificate of issue.
If a user buys a credit report for SEK 49, it is changed
the situation. The purchased credit reference information is then filled in by Yellow–
Belly and appears directly in the block "Economy" under the headings "Income
current year", "Debts and payment notes" and "Bankruptcy". The row
"Number of payment notes 0 pcs" is not included in this mode. The company
therefore considers that the information under the headings "Income current year",
"Debts and payment notes" and "Bankruptcy" in the block "Finance" i
this location must be considered a lifted and thus separated part of
The website. This lifted part is not covered by the Company's certificate of issue
but then constitutes an unmoderated part of the Website for which Yellow-Belly is responsible
for.
As for the block "Prosecutions, judgments and legal proceedings", this is part of it
the website covered by the Company's certificate of issue regardless of whether
the user obtains a judgment for SEK 99 or not. The company believes that it
is a difference between the block that refers to "Prosecutions, judgments and legal proceedings" and the block
"Finance" because the information that appears in the block "Prosecutions, judgments and
lawsuits' is not masked, but instead incomplete until the
a user of the Website pays SEK 99 to access it.
The company ended its collaboration with Yellow-Belly on April 8, 2019 then
the contractual relationship was terminated with immediate effect. The resale of
credit information therefore ceased immediately. The company sold in capacity
of Yellow-Belly's dealers about 700 pieces of credit information during March
month. At the end of May, the Company released a new version of the website.
In the new edition, the information on payment notes has been excluded.
Now, instead, only very rough information is provided that accounts for it
the economic situation of the area at large (extent in terms of
postcode outside the cities, and the neighborhood area in the cities).

Justification of the decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's position in this decision concerns Nusvar's operations
on the MrKoll website during the time period from December 2018 to
and with April 8, 2019. During the period, the company collected financial
information from Yellow-Belly and published information that individual
persons missing payment notes. The website has under this

8 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

time period on several occasions changed in terms of layout. However, the processing of personal data has been the same in current parts.
Nusvar's operations on the Mrkoll website are covered by a so-called voluntarily
certificate of issue according to ch. 1 Section 5 of the Freedom of Expression Act. This means that
The provisions of the Freedom of Expression Foundation on broadcasts of programs are applied
when information is provided to the public via Mrkoll.
Of the delegation provision in ch. 1. Section 18 of the Freedom of Expression Act follows that
what is specified in the delegation provision in ch. 1. 12 § 5
the Freedom of the Press Ordinance (1949:105) that regulations may be issued by law
if professional credit reporting activities also apply in respect of
program.
It follows from this that it is possible to issue regulations in law about
credit reporting activities conducted via covered websites
certificate of issue. Such legislation has been implemented through
the Credit Information Act (1973:1173).

Credit reporting activities
Datainspektionen is a supervisory authority according to the Credit Information Act
(1973:1173) and Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
on 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to processing
of personal data and about the free flow of such data and about
repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (Data Protection Regulation), GDPR.
According to Section 1 of the Credit Reporting Act, the law applies to credit reporting activities
which means that someone, except in isolated cases, provides credit information against
compensation or as part of business activities. The law also applies to others
credit reporting activities, if it is of a larger scope.
From section 2, first paragraph, first sentence of the Credit Information Act, it appears that
credit information refers to information, judgments or advice provided to
management for assessing someone else's creditworthiness or creditworthiness
otherwise in financial terms.
In the preparatory works for the Credit Information Act (prop. 1973:155 p. 139) the question is dealt with
when certain information is to be considered credit information:

9 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

"It is also characteristic of credit reporting that the information is provided to
certain purpose. It must be a matter of information that is intended to serve
management for assessment of someone's creditworthiness or validity in general i
financial aspect. Information that typically has a completely different
purpose is not covered by the concept of credit information, even if information of
economic nature is included in the information. This includes e.g. tasks in personnel tests
which is carried out to test a person's suitability for certain employment.
The information in a credit report is, of course, primarily aimed at
economic conditions. However, more personal information is often included
circumstances. A sharp boundary between the two types of information can
is not drawn nor is it required. The nature of the information is lacking in and of itself
significance for the determination of the concept of credit reporting. The decisive thing is
if it is suitable to serve as a guide in the assessment of creditworthiness, etc."
The assessment of whether the Company's dissemination of information constitutes credit reporting activities
The investigation shows that the stated purpose of the website is to
make available public information about private persons of public interest.
The information provided for free on the website has nothing stated
credit reporting purposes. However, the information is disclosed directly
connection to a purely credit reporting service operated by YellowBelly. Many users of the website can therefore be assumed to seek out
the website for the purpose of procuring information for management for assessment of
the wanted creditworthiness or validity in general in financial
respect. In that case, the information that the Company owns
personal data responsibility publishes on the website is sufficient to exist
basis for a credit assessment of the person sought, without the user
need to order a credit report from Yellow-Belly for SEK 49, conducts
The company credit reporting operations in the sense of the Credit Reporting Act.
Information on the extent to which an individual has a payment notice or
is not an example of a task that can typically be used to do
a credit assessment of the wanted person. A statement that it searched
lacking payment notes can be sufficient information, for example
about the individual's finances in order for him to be allowed to order an item in return
invoice in an online store or be approved as a member of a condominium association.
A user who visits the website for the purpose of a credit assessment
of the wanted person and who does not need more information if it was wanted
economy than can refrain from ordering a full credit report from
Yellow-Belly.

1 0 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

The company publishes information that the wanted person has no payment notes by stating in the "Summary" block that "X has no
payment notes" and in the block "Finance" enter "Number of payment notes 0 pcs".
The fact that this information cannot be provided about all individuals
people who have no payment notes - but only about individuals
people who have no payment notes, who are part of a cluster of 2228 people who also have no payment notes - missing in this
case meaning. Anyone who takes part in the information on the website receives one
unequivocal finding that payment notes are missing for the person who
searched in cases where such information is available. It thus constitutes a finding
relating to an individual's financial circumstances, intended to serve as a guide for
the assessment of his creditworthiness. The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that
The company thereby during the period December 2018 – April 2019 has conducted
credit information activities through the publication the Company itself is responsible for
for on the website.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the release of credit information has not occurred in isolated cases, but is done as part of business operations
and is of greater scope. Such an activity is covered by
regulations of the Credit Information Act.
Section 4, first paragraph, of the Credit Information Act states that credit information activities may only be carried out with the permission of the Data Inspectorate. According to section 4
fourth paragraph of that act, however, a permit is not needed for credit information activities, insofar as it is conducted through the publication of credit information
in such a way as is referred to in the Freedom of the Press Ordinance or the Freedom of Expression Act. The website is subject to such a release certificate as
regulated in ch. 1 Sections 5-7 of the freedom of expression foundation. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
notes that the Company thus has the right to operate
credit reporting activities without permission. The Swedish Data Protection Authority states
at the same time that the Company must comply with other applicable regulations in
the Credit Information Act and applicable regulations i
data protection regulation.
If the wanted person is part of a cluster where one or more of the other individuals
the people have a payment remark, the user can proceed through
to order a credit report from Yellow-Belly for SEK 49.

1 1 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

The Swedish Data Protection Authority finds no reason to question the Company's claim that
The company is only a reseller of Yellow-Belly's credit information when a
users purchase a full credit report through the website for 49
crowns.
Without taking a more detailed position on the substantive issue in the current case, because the question
has no significance for the question of whether the Company conducts
credit information activities or not, the Data Protection Authority does not find either
reason to question the Company's claim that the information under
the headings "Income for the current year", "Debts and payment notes" and
"Bankruptcy" in the block "Economy" must be considered a lift-off and thus
separate part of the Website that is not covered by the Company's certificate of issue, i
the situation when the user pays SEK 49 and takes part in such a complete
credit information for which Yellow-Belly is responsible.
Information about violations of law
Article 10 of the Data Protection Regulation contains restrictions on processing
of information about legal offences. Such data may only be processed by
authorities or if the processing is permitted under Union law or
national law. The Credit Information Act contains, in the part it refers to
processing of personal data, regulations that supplement
data protection regulation. The second paragraph of Section 6 of the Credit Information Act follows
that information about offenses involving crimes, judgments in criminal cases,
criminal procedural coercive measures or administrative detentions do not
may be processed in credit reporting operations without the consent of
The Swedish Data Protection Authority.
In the blocks "Summary" and "Prosecutions, judgments and legal proceedings" it is stated about
the wanted person has been prosecuted in court in one or more cases concerning
criminal case. If the user wants to take part in the judgments from the cases where it
wanted person has been prosecuted, the user can proceed by paying SEK 99.
The verdict and a summary of the current verdicts are then displayed directly on
The website in the "Prosecutions, judgments and legal proceedings" block.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers that already the information "X has been charged with a
court in a legal case intended for a criminal case" constitutes information about
violation of the law in the meaning of Section 6, second paragraph of the Credit Information Act. To
this will allow the user to choose to collect and share themselves
the judgment directly on the Website in the block in question.

1 2 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the Company is in violation of Article 10 i
the data protection regulation and Section 6, second paragraph of the Credit Information Act
processes information about violations of the law for credit reporting purposes without
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's consent.
The requirement for task minimization
In section 5, first paragraph of the Credit Information Act, it is stated that credit information activities must be conducted so that they do not lead to undue intrusion into personal
integrity through the content of the information that is conveyed or otherwise
way or that incorrect or misleading information is stored or disclosed.
For such processing of personal data that is covered by the data protection regulation, Article 5 of that regulation applies instead.
According to Article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation, personal data such as
are treated to be adequate, relevant and not too extensive in relation to
the purposes for which they are processed (data minimization).
It follows from these rules that in credit reporting operations it must not
is processed data other than those that are adequate and relevant for
the assessment of someone's creditworthiness. Nor should any more be processed
information than is necessary to assess the requested person's creditworthiness. At
the assessment of which data may be processed is the starting point to so
as few data as possible should be processed. Such must be prioritized during the selection
tasks that alone or together with a few other tasks can
provide the necessary knowledge needed to assess the sought
creditworthiness.
As the website includes credit information activities, the information must
which are published on the website are assessed in terms of adequacy,
relevance and extent based on a credit reporting purpose.
Several of the categories of information published on the website are adequate
and relevant for credit reporting purposes, for example address information and
marital status.
However, the Swedish Data Protection Authority considers that personal data about vehicle ownership,
estimated value of condominium or property, telephone number, zodiac sign,
popularity or neighbors' names and ages are not necessary, adequate and
relevant for assessing someone's creditworthiness.

1 3 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

As regards information on vehicle ownership, such information is not available in practice
considered to mean such a quality improvement in credit reporting operations
that they should be allowed (Judgment of the County Court in Stockholm County 15 June 2001, Case no.
Ö 4128-99). As regards the estimated value of the condominium or property, so
this information lacks adequacy and relevance for credit reporting purposes
because the information only refers to the Company's own estimates of value which
also not combined with information on ownership and
underlying leverage. Details of phone number, zodiac sign and
popularity is irrelevant for a credit reporting purpose.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore states that the Company has violated Article 5.1 c
data protection regulation by processing personal data that is not
adequate, relevant and excessive in relation to one
credit reporting purposes.
Requirement of legitimate need and credit reference copy
The person who requests personal information, i.e. a credit report on a
private person, according to section 9 first paragraph of the Credit Information Act, must have a so-called
legitimate need for it. This means that he must have entered into a credit agreement
or be about to enter into a credit agreement with the person in question or that this person i
otherwise has reason to make an economic risk assessment regarding it
questioned.
Every time a credit reporting company issues a credit report on
a natural person must, according to § 11 of the Credit Information Act, at the same time and
free of charge receive a written message about the information, judgments and advice
which the information contains, a so-called credit report copy.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the Company has not fulfilled its obligations
according to the provisions of §§ 9 and 11 of the Credit Information Act i
credit reporting operations.

Choice of corrective actions
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has established that the Company has conducted credit reporting activities via the MrKoll website by processing information about
payment notes and thereby,



in the credit information business processed personal data about
violations of the law in violation of Article 10 of the Data Protection Ordinance and § 6

1 4 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

the second paragraph of the Credit Information Act by stating, without the Data Inspectorate's consent, that the wanted person had been charged in
criminal cases, partly publishing judgments against payment,



processed personal data in violation of the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation by processing
several categories of data that are not adequate and relevant and
too extensive for credit reporting purposes and



acted in violation of the provisions of §§ 9 and 11 of the Credit Information Act by not taking into account the requirements of legitimate need and
credit report copy.

Possible intervention measures
If the person who has the right to carry out credit reporting activities disregards a
provision in the Credit Information Act, the Swedish Data Protection Authority receives according to § 17
the Credit Information Act orders him to make a correction or notify one
new condition. If the person who carries out credit information activities does not comply
what is incumbent on him according to section 11, the Data Inspection Authority can submit according to section 22
penalty.
Section 15 of the Credit Information Act states that when supervising such processing of
personal data covered by the data protection regulation applies to the Data Inspectorate's powers according to section 17 of the Credit Information Act in addition to the
powers that the Swedish Data Protection Authority has according to Article 58.1–58.3.
data protection regulation.
In article 58 of the data protection regulation, all powers are specified as
According to the data protection regulation, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has According to Article 58.2 (a–
h, j) the Data Inspectorate has a number of corrective powers available, i.a.
a. warnings, reprimands or limitations of treatment.
Pursuant to Article 58.2 (i) of the Data Protection Regulation, it appears that the supervisory authority shall impose administrative penalty fees in accordance with Article 83.
According to Article 83.2 administrative penalty fees, depending on
the circumstances of the individual case, are imposed in addition to or instead of them
measures referred to in Article 58.2 a–h and j. Furthermore, Article 83.2
which factors must be taken into account when deciding on administrative penalty fees
must be imposed and when determining the size of the fee.

1 5 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

Instead of penalty fees, in certain cases, according to recital 148 of the data protection regulation, a reprimand may be issued instead of penalty fees if it is
the matter of a minor infraction. Consideration must be given to circumstances such as
the nature, severity and duration of the breach.
Penalty fees shall be imposed
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has stated above that Nusvar conducts credit reporting activities and assessed that the Company in the current processing of
personal data has violated Article 5 and Article 10
data protection regulation. These articles are covered by article 83.5, which means
that a higher penalty amount should be imposed.
The personal data processing that this supervision covers has meant
processing of personal data about people registered in Sweden who are 16
years or older, just over eight million. Information about payment notice appears
in all those cases where individuals based on cluster information about 22–28 nearby residents
found to have no payment note. Information about a violation of the law has been processed in cases where the registered person has been the subject of prosecution in
criminal case. It is therefore not a question of a minor violation. There is
thus no reason to replace the sanction fee with a reprimand.
No other corrective action is applicable for that treatment either
that happened. The company must therefore be subject to administrative penalty charges.
Circumstances of importance for determining the penalty fee
size
General provisions
According to Article 83.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, each supervisory authority must
ensure that the imposition of administrative penalty charges in each individual
case is effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
According to Article 83.3, the administrative sanction fee may not exceed
the amount of the most serious violation if it is one or the same
data processing or connected data processing.
Violations of Articles 5 and 10 are covered by Article 83(5). The penalty amount
therefore cannot exceed EUR 20 million or 4% of the global total
the annual turnover during the previous budget year, depending on which value
is highest.

1 6 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

The company started operations in 2018 and had only one reported
turnover for the last month of the year. The company's turnover in 2018 amounted to
The company's annual report to SEK 399,092.
In article 83. 2 of the data protection regulation, all factors that must
taken into account when determining the size of the penalty fee. At the assessment
of the size of the sanction fee must, among other things, a. account is taken of a) of the violation
nature, severity and duration, b) intent or negligence, g)
categories of personal data, h) how the violation came about
Datainspektionen's knowledge and k) other aggravating or mitigating circumstances
factor, for example direct or indirect financial gain.
The circumstances of the current case
In the Data Inspectorate's assessment of the penalty fee, consideration has been given to
that information has been collected on all Swedish citizens over the age of 16,
roughly eight million citizens, which have been freely available online
available to the public and stakeholders. Publication of information on
the website constitutes the Company's core business and the processing has taken place in
profit motive. These circumstances are aggravating.
In addition, the fact that information about payment remarks is taken into account
may be provided in credit reporting activities, but not information about
violations of the law. The fact that this information is provided
jointly risk leading to negative effects and to an extensive infringement
in the personal integrity of individuals.
Consideration has also been given to the fact that the treatment has come about
Datainspektionen's knowledge via a number of complaints from the public.
At the same time, the Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that credit information information has
published for about five months, and then ceased.
During the time period the information has been published, the potential
the spread effect has been extensive. For example, the website comes high
up among the search hits on other major search engines and the spread, as well
the possibility of gaining access to the data has thus been great.
With regard to the question of whether the violations have occurred with intent or through
negligence there is nothing in the investigation to show otherwise is that

1 7 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

the treatment, which among other things consisted of open publication of the information about
payment notice and information about violations of the law, done intentionally.
Determining the size of the sanction amount
The amount of the sanction can, as already said, be set at a maximum of 20 million
EUR. The amount of the sanction must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the Company is newly started and that the Company's
latest annual report only covers one (December 2018) of the five months
as the credit information service at www.mrkoll.se was available. It is
therefore not possible to use this as a basis for the determination of
the amount of the penalty fee.
The company has not further specified its turnover for 2019. One
the starting point is therefore taken that the company's monthly turnover in each case
corresponds to that for December 2018, recalculated for the full year 2018, SEK 4.8m.
The Data Inspection Authority decides based on an overall assessment that the company must
pay an administrative penalty fee of EUR 35,000.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority does not consider that there is reason to take any action
further action due to the Company's non-compliance
the provisions of section 5 first paragraph first sentence and sections 9 and 11
the Credit Information Act on legitimate need and credit information copy
because the Company's credit information activities have now ceased.

This decision has been made by the director general Lena Lindgren Schelin after
presentation by department director Hans Kärnlöf. At the final
the handling is handled by chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom and the head of unit
Catharina Fernquist participated.
Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2019-12-13 (This is an electronic signature)
Appendices
Appendix 1 – How to pay penalty fee

1 8 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-22737

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination. The Chancellor of Justice may also, insofar as it concerns the application of
credit information act, appeal the decision to protect the public
interests. However, the time for appeals to the Chancellor of Justice is counted from it
day the decision was announced.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.
Copy to: Chancellor of Justice

1 9 (19)

