1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00033/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 6, 2020, he entered this Agency
Spanish Data Protection, a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against ARRIVEDA DAMAR S.L.
with CIF B87440079 (hereinafter, the claimed one), for the installation of a
video surveillance installed on the street *** ADDRESS.1, there are indications of a possible
Non-compliance with the provisions of the data protection regulations
staff.

The reasons that support the claim and, where appropriate, the documents provided
by the claimant are the following:

“The company ***EMPRESA.1 has placed surveillance cameras on the street
***ADDRESS.1, where you have the main entrance and on the street ***ADDRESS.2,
where you have a second smaller entry. There are 4 cameras in total. There is not
no poster where the recording of the images is indicated. Also from a
from the cameras of ***ADDRESS.2, as it is so far from the door that in theory
watch, our portal through which we access the houses is perfectly recorded,
so that with those images they have us under surveillance and they know when we go out,
we enter, we go on vacation, etc. (…)”

Photo report has been provided.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), being notified electronically
dated November 25, 2020, without any response from this Agency
of the claimed.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of January 26
of 2021.

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is reached the
determination that the person responsible for the processing of personal data is
ARRIVEDA DAMAR S.L.

CU
 ARTO: On April 12, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

alleged infringement of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5
of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that "The cameras in no way
they capture, neither in all nor in part, the portal through which he accesses his home, (...).

The location of the camera delimits only the area of the side entrance of the premises, and
its sole function is to protect our customers and employees when they leave the
local; the safety of employees of security companies that carry out
transportation of funds and make use of the output; or its use after finishing the processes
collection.” (…)

The sign above the side door itself has been repeatedly torn from the
itself, as can be seen on it, since it has even raised the
own door painting. To avoid this, the cartel is currently
located well above the upper limit of the door, to prevent its theft.”

Provides two photographs of what the camera captures, in which you can see the whole
width of the sidewalk and the cars parked next to it along the facade of the
establishment, as well as the roadway.

Attach a third photograph, in which there is only an informative poster of
video-surveillance area with your data, without it being possible to identify the place where
was previously located, nor where it is currently located.

SIXTH: On May 19, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice of tests, taking for reproduced, for purposes
evidence of the claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data and allegations presented by the respondent.

SEVENTH: On May 21, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing to impose on the claimed party the sanction of €4,000 (Four thousand Euros)
for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, and €2,000 (Two thousand Euros)
for the alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD.

In this proposal, a period of 10 days was granted so that the person claimed could
allege what he considers in his defense as well as present the documents and
information that it considers pertinent, in accordance with article 89.2 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

EIGHTH: There is no evidence that, at the date of writing this resolution, there
had input in this Agency allegations to the Resolution Proposal, which
duly notified on May 24, 2021.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

FACTS

FIRST: On November 6, 2020, it entered this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a document that shows that the claimed party has
installed four video surveillance cameras that capture the entire width of the sidewalk and
cars parked next to it along the front of the establishment, as well
like the road.

SECOND: The respondent has provided a photograph that only contains a
Informative poster of the video-monitored area with the data of the person claimed, without it being
possible to identify where it was previously located, or where it is
currently located.

THIRD: The person in charge of the video surveillance system is ARRIVEDA DAMAR S.L.
with CIF B87440079.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The physical image of a person under article 4.1 of the RGPD is personal data
and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. Article 4.2 of the GDPR
defines the concept of “treatment” of personal data.

Article 22 of the LOPDGDD establishes the specificities of data processing
for video surveillance purposes, indicating the following:

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
processing of images through camera systems or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of people and property, as well as their
installations.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that

is essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture the public road in an extension
superior when necessary to guarantee the security of goods or
strategic installations or infrastructures linked to transport, without
In no case may it involve capturing images of the interior of a home
private.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its
collection, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of
acts that threaten the integrity of persons, property or facilities. In that
case, the images must be made available to the competent authority in
within a maximum period of seventy-two hours from the date of knowledge of the
existence of the recording.

The blocking obligation provided for in

article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

5. Under article 2.2.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered
excluded from its scope of application the treatment by a natural person of images
that they only capture the interior of their own home.

This exclusion does not cover processing carried out by a security entity
private that had been contracted for the surveillance of a home and had access
to the images.

6. The processing of personal data from the images and
sounds obtained through the use of cameras and video cameras by the Armed Forces
and Security Bodies and by the competent bodies for surveillance and control in
penitentiary centers and for the control, regulation, vigilance and discipline of the
traffic, will be governed by the legislation transposing Directive (EU) 2016/680,
when the treatment is for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or
prosecution of criminal offenses or execution of criminal sanctions, including
protection and prevention against threats to public safety. Outside
In these cases, said treatment will be governed by its specific legislation and
additionally by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.

7. What is regulated in this article is understood without prejudice to the provisions of

Law 5/2014, of April 4, on Private Security and its development provisions.

8. The treatment by the employer of data obtained through information systems
cameras or video cameras is subject to the provisions of article 89 of this law
organic.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

III

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a
video surveillance system, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with
the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space where the security system is installed.
video surveillance, since the processing of images in public places can only be
carried out, unless there is government authorization, by the Forces and Corps of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the persons who are
find.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in the

articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD, and 22 of the LOPDGDD, in the terms already indicated.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- The installed cameras cannot obtain images from private space of
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can
affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. No this
allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors
with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the spaces
surrounding public, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the
guarded space.

In summary and to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection offers through its website [https://www.aepd.es] access to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” / “regulations”), as well as the Guide
on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes, as well as the Guide
for compliance with the duty to inform (both available in the section “Guides
and tools”).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

IV

In the present case, the claim was filed because the respondent has installed
four video surveillance cameras that capture the entire width of the sidewalk and cars
parked next to it along the façade of the establishment, as well as the
road.
 Likewise, the information poster installed does not meet the requirements
established in the data protection regulations.

As proof of these statements, the claimant provided the evidence
indicated in the “Facts” section of this agreement.

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to issue a warning -article 58.2.b)-, the
power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD
-article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

v

In accordance with the evidence that is available and that has been
accredited with the photographs provided by the defendant, he has installed a
video surveillance system that could be capturing images from third parties, and also,
the informative poster of the existence of said cameras does not meet the requirements
arranged in the data protection regulations, for which it is considered that these
facts violate the provisions of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, which implies the
commission of offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the
Next:

"Infringements of the following provisions shall be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;
[…].”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infractions indicated in
the previous paragraph are considered very serious and prescribe after three years, in accordance with
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

"According to the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)
h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law.
(…)»

SAW

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD. So,
It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria established by the
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the LOPDGDD, regarding
to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD:

In the initial assessment, the following have been considered:

-

-

The nature of the offense by having a video surveillance system that
is oriented towards public transit areas without just cause, trying to
data of identifiable natural persons (art. 83.5 a) RGPD.

The intentionality or negligence of the infraction, the cameras are oriented
to the outside of your establishment (83.2.b) RGPD).

- Not having an informative poster indicating the data controller
and where the interested parties can go to exercise their recognized rights.
two in the GDPR, prevents those affected from exercising it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES

FIRST: IMPOSE ARRIVEDA DAMAR S.L., with CIF B87440079, for a
infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of €4,000 (four thousand euros).

SECOND: IMPOSE ARRIVEDA DAMAR S.L., with CIF B87440079, for a
infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine
€2,000 (Two thousand euros).

THIRD: ORDER ARRIVEDA DAMAR S.L., with CIF B87440079, which, by virtue
of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, within ten days, adopt the following measures:

-

-

-

certify having proceeded to withdraw the cameras from the places
current, or to the reorientation of the same towards their particular area.

certifies having proceeded to the placement of the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered in the same
(must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity
of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in
said precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces.

certifies that it keeps the information available to those affected
referred to in the aforementioned RGPD.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to ARRIVEDA DAMAR S.L.

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment period established in art. 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, dated 29
July, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, through its
income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the procedure number that appears in
the heading of this document, in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000
0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. Otherwise, it will be processed
collection in executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

