1/9

Procedure No.: PS/00056/2019

RESOLUTION R/00250/2019 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE BY

VOLUNTARY PAYMENT

In sanctioning procedure PS/00056/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Officer to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., given the complaint
presented by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 9, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:
<<

Procedure No.: PS/00056/2019

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data before VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., by virtue of a claim filed by
A.A.A. and based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On 09/05/2018 there is an entry in the AEPD written by Ms. B.B.B., in
representation of D.A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant). The claim is directed
against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (hereinafter VODAFONE).
The reasons on which the claim is based are, in summary, the following: the claimant
has been directing writings against VODAFONE, informing that for some of its
departments, your DNI has been assigned to a third party, with whom it has no relationship
any and who also resides outside their CCAA; the third party maintains a debt for
unpaid invoices in which the claimant's DNI appears, so the situation
it is causing a permanent restlessness; VODAFONE prevents you from accessing
fully to your application but at the same time it allows you to access invoices of the
lady who has been assigned her DNI, which is a flagrant violation of the
LOPD by the company; that in this situation has been forced to
File a complaint with the Civil Guard.

Provides:

-Copy of ID.
- Complaint before the G.C.
-Bills.
-Emails addressed to VODAFONE.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 10/15/2018, reiterated on 11/27/2018, the claim was transferred to VODAFONE
submitted for analysis and communication to the complainant of the decision adopted
regard.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the claim and its
transfer to the claimed entity.

THIRD: VODAFONE has not responded to any of the requests
formulated by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

 

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

II

The facts denounced are specified in the treatment of the data of the
claimant by VODAFONE without their consent, specifically their DNI,
linking it to the name and surname of a third person client of the entity and
debtor of the same, with which he has no relationship whatsoever, being completely
self-employed and whose domicile is outside their Autonomous Community of residence.

Said treatment could constitute a violation of article 6, Legality of the

treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

(…)”

Article 4 of the GDPR, Definitions, in section 11, states that:

“11) «consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either
by means of a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the processing of data
personal matters that concern him”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

Also article 6, Treatment based on the consent of the affected party, of the
new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, consent of the affected party is understood to be any manifestation of will
free, specific, informed and unequivocal by which he accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern.

2. When it is intended to base the processing of the data on the consent of the
affected for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state
specific and unequivocal that said consent is granted for all of them.

3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the
processing of personal data for purposes unrelated to the
maintenance, development or control of the contractual relationship”.

On the other hand, article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the
basic principles for processing, including conditions for consent
in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned GDPR, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

The regulation of infractions in the LOPDGDD is more precise in terms of the
situations that give rise to an infraction and its consideration, so that it is
much easier to know the limitation period of that infraction (that is, if it is
considered mild, serious or very serious) and in view of the administrative sanction to be imposed
for its non-compliance.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates: “Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

c) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.

(…)”

The exposed facts reveal the treatment by VODAFONE of
the claimant's data without their consent, which would imply the violation of the

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

Article 6 of the RGPD, Legality of the treatment, as your consent is not recorded and without
is part of the service contract in which the data of the same are recorded. Also,
VODAFONE has not provided any documentation proving that the person
claimed I provide personal data.

.
The Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in
assumptions such as the one presented here, has considered that when the owner of the
data denies consent for the processing of your data corresponds to the load
of the proof to the person who affirms its existence, owing the person in charge of the treatment of
data collect and keep the necessary documentation to prove the
consent of the owner, SAN of 05/31/2006 (Rec. 539/2004).

The claimant has provided copies of service and consumption bills
contracted with VODAFONE corresponding to a third party, client of the entity, in the
that the DNI of the claimant appears linked to the billing data of the third party;
person who is also domiciled in a CCAA other than the residence of the
claimant.

There are also emails addressed to the company demanding
response for the events that occurred; situation that also prevents him from accessing the
VODAFONE application (apps) when showing unpaid invoices assigned to your DNI
that do not correspond to him and that in view of the situation of insecurity that it caused him, he had
to go to the corresponding post of the Civil Guard to report the facts.

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed,
observe the provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which
point out:

IV

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question,
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.

In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its

Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of
data.
h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to
impose in the present case for the infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD
for which VODAFONE is held responsible, in an initial assessment, it is estimated
concurrent the following factors:

The merely local scope of the treatment carried out by the entity

claimed.

Only one person has been affected by the offending conduct.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

The damage caused to the claimant since she had to file a complaint
before the GC and there were several occasions on which he addressed the entity to
inform him of the facts without making any decision.

The entity claimed has not responded to the requirements of the AEPD nor has it

measures have been taken to prevent similar incidents from occurring.

There is no evidence that the entity had acted maliciously, although

the performance reveals a lack of diligence.

The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal data number of people affected.

The entity claimed is considered a large company.

Therefore, as stated,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1. INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with
NIF A80907397, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, sanctioned
in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD and typified as
very serious infraction in article 72.1.c) of the aforementioned Law.

2. APPOINT R.R.R. Instructor and Secretary to S.S.S., indicating that any of
them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of articles 23 and
24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector
(LRJSP).

3. INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the complaint
filed by the complainant and her documentation, the documents obtained and
generated by the Inspection Services during the preliminary investigation phase as well
such as the report of previous inspection actions; documents all of them
make up file E/07458/2018.

4. THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP), and
art. 127 letter b) of the RLOPD, the sanction that could correspond for the infraction
described would be 60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the
instruction.

5. NOTIFY this Agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF
A80907397, expressly indicating their right to a hearing in the procedure
and granting him a period of TEN WORKING DAYS to formulate the allegations and
Propose the tests you consider appropriate. In his pleadings
You must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading
of this document.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

Likewise, in accordance with articles 64.2.f) and 85 of the LPACAP,
informs that, if it does not make allegations within the term of this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal.

You are also informed that, in accordance with the provisions of article
85.1 LPACAP, may acknowledge its responsibility within the term granted for the
formulation of allegations to this initial agreement which will entail a
reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in the present
procedure, equivalent in this case to 12,000 euros. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 48,000 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction,
in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean a
reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to 12,000
euros. With the application of this reduction, the penalty would be established at 48,000
euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established at 36,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above (48,000 euros or 36,000 euros), in accordance with the
provided for in article 85.2 referred to, we indicate that you must make it effective by
your deposit in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
the date of the start-up agreement or, where applicable, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

 >>

SECOND: On May 23, 2019, the respondent has proceeded to pay the
sanction in the amount of 36,000 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP),
under the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the
Next:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."
According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.
SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

the termination of procedure PS/00056/2019, of

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

