1  
ABOUT THE CORONAVIRUS  
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in the context of the public health emergency arising from the spread of the coronavirus, is receiving inquiries from both citizens and companies, as well as other entities subject to compliance with data protection regulations regarding the processing of personal data related to health.  
These FAQs aim to answer the most frequently asked questions that have been received.  
- Can employers process information about whether employees are infected with the coronavirus?  
In accordance with the provisions established in health, labor, and, in particular, occupational risk prevention regulations, employers may process, in accordance with such regulations and with the guarantees they establish, the personal data necessary to ensure the health of their staff and adopt the necessary measures by the competent authorities, which also includes ensuring the right to health protection for the rest of the staff and preventing infections within the company and/or workplaces that could spread the disease to the general population.  
The company may know whether the employee is infected or not, in order to design, through its prevention service, the contingency plans that are necessary or that have been foreseen by health authorities.  
This information can also be obtained by asking the staff. However, the questions should be limited exclusively to inquiring about the existence of symptoms, or whether the employee has been diagnosed as infected, or is subject to quarantine. The circulation of extensive and detailed health questionnaires, or those that include questions unrelated to the disease, would be contrary to the principle of data minimization.  

2  
- Can this information be transmitted to the company's staff?  
This information should be provided without identifying the affected person in order to maintain their privacy; however, it could be transmitted at the request of the competent authorities, particularly health authorities.  
The information must be provided respecting the principles of purpose and proportionality and always within the framework established in the recommendations or instructions issued by the competent authorities, particularly health authorities. For example, if it is possible to achieve the purpose of protecting the health of the staff by disclosing the existence of an infection, but without specifying the identity of the infected person, this should be done. If, on the contrary, that objective cannot be achieved with partial information, or the practice is discouraged by the competent authorities, particularly health authorities, identifying information could be provided.  

- Can employees and external visitors to the company be asked for data about countries they have previously visited, or if they present symptoms related to the coronavirus?  
Regardless of whether the competent authorities, particularly health authorities, establish these measures for public health reasons and communicate them to workplaces, employers have a legal obligation to protect the health of employees and maintain the workplace free of health risks, so the request for information from employees and external visitors about symptoms or risk factors would be justified without the need to obtain their explicit consent (GDPR and Occupational Risk Prevention Law).  
The information to be requested should adhere to the principle of proportionality and be limited exclusively to asking about visits to countries with high prevalence of the virus and within the incubation period of the disease, the last 2 weeks, or whether they have any of the symptoms of the disease. The use of extensive and detailed health questionnaires, or those that include questions unrelated to the disease, would be contrary to the principle of data minimization.
3

- Can health data of workers related to the coronavirus be processed?

To comply with the decisions regarding the coronavirus pandemic made by the competent authorities, particularly health authorities, data protection regulations should not be used to hinder or limit the effectiveness of the measures adopted by these authorities in the fight against the pandemic. Data protection regulations allow for the adoption of necessary measures to safeguard the vital interests of individuals, the essential public interest in the field of health, the performance of medical diagnoses, or the fulfillment of legal obligations in the workplace, including the processing of health data without the need for explicit consent from the affected individual. In any case, the processing of this data must observe the principles established in the GDPR, particularly those of minimization, purpose limitation, and storage limitation.

- In the case of preventive quarantine or being affected by the coronavirus, does the worker have an obligation to inform their employer of this circumstance?

Workers who, after having had contact with a case of coronavirus, may be affected by the disease and who, under the protocols established by the competent Health Authorities, are subjected to the corresponding preventive isolation to avoid the risks of contagion arising from this situation until the corresponding diagnosis is available, must inform their employer and the prevention service or, where applicable, the prevention delegates (Occupational Risk Prevention Law). The worker in a situation of sick leave is not obligated to inform the company of the reason for the leave; however, this individual right may yield in favor of the defense of other rights such as the right to health protection for the collective of workers in pandemic situations and, more generally, the defense of the health of the entire population.

4

- Can security personnel take the temperature of workers in order to detect cases of coronavirus?

Verifying whether the health status of workers may pose a danger to themselves, to other personnel, or to other individuals associated with the company constitutes a measure related to the health surveillance of workers that, according to the Occupational Risk Prevention Law, is mandatory for the employer and should be carried out by health personnel. In any case, the processing of data obtained from temperature checks must comply with data protection regulations and, therefore, among other obligations, must adhere to the specific purpose of containing the spread of the coronavirus, be limited to that purpose and not extend to other different purposes, and be maintained no longer than necessary for the purpose for which it was collected.