1/10

936-150719
Procedure No.: PS/00174/2019

RESOLUTION R/00585/2019 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00174/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection to GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF LABOR,
In view of the complaint filed by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 23, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against CONFEDERATION
GENERAL LABOR (hereinafter, the claimed party), by means of the Agreement
transcribe:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00174/2019

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on October 4, 2018 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency against CONFEDERATION
GENERAL LABOR, TARRAGONA INTERCOMMARCAL FEDERATION with NIF
G79196614 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

The reasons on which the claim is based are that without your consent the
claimed on September 4, 2018, the union members received
assembly call for September 18 has spread by email to
four hundred members of said union, personal information of the claimant regarding:

Information about your personal and family relationship.

- Details of the ongoing procedure for the verbal abuse and harassment that you have suffered.
-
- Data on your pregnancy status
- Address of your home address.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to
carrying out preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts
in question, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that

the data controller is the claimed party.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the

treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for

those that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data that is
inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data; the
personal data may be kept for longer periods as long as they are processed
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to
the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this
Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the term
of conservation”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions

in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

According to the evidence currently available,
and without prejudice to what results from the investigation, it is considered that the facts
denounced, that is, spread by email to four hundred union members
claimed, personal information of the claimant about their personal and family relationship, their
state of pregnancy and their private address, thus incurring in the violation of the
article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs the principles of integrity and confidentiality of the
personal data, as well as the proactive responsibility of the data controller
to demonstrate compliance.

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe the
three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

the following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional negligent action, but

significant (article 83.2 b)

 Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, surnames,

domicile), according to article 83.2 g)

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

FIRST: START A SANCTIONING PROCEDURE against the CONFEDERATION
GENERAL LABOR, TARRAGONA INTERCOMMARCAL FEDERATION with NIF
G79196614 for the alleged infringement of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 a) of the GDPR.

SECOND: ORDER the GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF WORK, FEDERATION
INTERCOMARCAL TARRAGONA with NIF G79196614, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten days it proceeds to order the
responsible or in charge of the treatment, that the treatment operations comply with
the provisions of the GDPR.

THIRD: APPOINT R.R.R. as instructor. and, as secretary, to S.S.S., indicating
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim
filed by the claimant and their documentation, the documents obtained and generated
by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection during the investigation phase, as well as
such as the report of previous inspection actions.

FIFTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond would be 5,000 euros (five thousand euros) without prejudice to what is
of instruction.

SIXTH: NOTIFY this agreement to the GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF THE
LABOR, TARRAGONA INTERCOMMARCAL FEDERATION with NIF G79196614
granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations and
Submit whatever evidence you deem appropriate. In your statement of arguments, you must
Provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading of this
document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may acknowledge its responsibility within the term
granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; what it will take
coupled with a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in the present
process. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be established in
4,000 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which will entail the
reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction, the sanction
would be established at 4,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period granted
to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of
amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any time prior to the
resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty
would be set at 3,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above, (4,000 or 3,000 euros) must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of
the Spanish Data Protection Agency at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in
the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading of
this document and the cause of reduction of the amount to which it avails itself.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement. elapsed
that term will produce its expiration and, consequently, the filing of proceedings; of
in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On November 12, 2019, the respondent has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
the sanction in the amount of 3000 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00174/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF THE
WORKED.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

