Decision

Diary no

2020-04-28

DI-2019-10409

The State Service Center, SSC

The state service center's management of a
personal data incident - Supervision according to
data protection regulation
Table of Contents
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision................................................... ................................2
Statement of the supervisory matter ............................................... ......................3
The State Service Center's tasks................................................... ........................4
Other things that came to light in the inspection............................................... .....................7
Justification of decision................................................... ............................................7
Legal background................................................... ..............................................7
General about the responsibility for personal data processing...................................7
Obligation to have a personal data processor agreement ......................................8
Obligation to notify personal data controller...................................8
Obligation to report to the Data Inspectorate................................................ ..9
Obligation to document personal data incidents ............................9
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... .......................10
Distribution of roles and summary of the sequence of events ......................10
The notifications to the authorities were made too late ...............................11
The notification to the Data Inspectorate was made too late ........................................11
No valid personal data processing agreement ............................................... ....12
Shortcomings in the documentation as a personal data controller ..........................13
Choice of intervention .............................................. ..............................................14
Legal regulation ................................................ ..........................................14

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

Penalty fees to be imposed ................................................. ..........................15
Personal data assistant agreement ................................................. ...................15
Circumstances of importance for determining the amount of the penalty fee .....16
Injunction due to deficiencies in documentation ....................................17
Appendix................................................... ................................................ ..............18
Copy for information ................................................... ........................................18
How to appeal............................................... ..........................................18

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Data Inspectorate states that the State Service Center in its capacity of
personal data officer only notified on 20 August 2019
authorities responsible for personal data about a personal data incident which
the authority became aware of on 28 March 2019. This means that the State's
service center violated article 33.2 of the data protection regulation, then
the intelligence did not take place without unnecessary delay after the State's
service center became aware of the personal data incident.
The Data Inspection Authority decides with the support of ch. 6. Section 2 of the Data Protection Act and
articles 58.2 and 83 of the data protection regulation that the Statens service center shall
pay an administrative sanction fee of SEK 150,000 for the violation
of Article 33.2 of the Data Protection Regulation, that is, for the failure to
without undue delay notify the personal data controllers
the authorities about the personal data incident in question in the supervisory matter.
The Data Inspectorate states that the State Service Center in its capacity of
personal data controller only on 25 June 2019 until the Data Inspection came in
with a notification of a personal data incident that the authority received
knowledge of March 28, 2019. This means that the State Service Centre
violated article 33.1 of the data protection regulation, then notification of
the personal data incident did not take place within 72 hours after the State's
service center became aware of it.
Furthermore, the Statens service center as personal data controller does not
documented essential circumstances surrounding the personal data incident

2 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

and the corrective measures that have been taken and thereby violated Article 33.5
in the data protection regulation.
The Data Inspection Authority decides with the support of ch. 6. Section 2 of the Data Protection Act and
articles 58.2 and 83 of the data protection regulation that the Statens service center shall
pay an administrative sanction fee of SEK 50,000 for the violation
of Article 33.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, that is, for the failure to
report the personal data incident to the Swedish Data Protection Authority within 72 hours after
to have become aware of it.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority decides to instruct the Staten's Service Center with the support of Article 58.1 d of the Data Protection Ordinance to:
1. Establish procedures for documentation of personal data incidents such as
makes it possible for the Swedish Data Protection Authority to check compliance with
Article 33 of the Data Protection Regulation. The routines must meet the requirements of
article 33.5 of the data protection regulation, which stipulates that it
personal data controller must document all
personal data incidents, including the circumstances surrounding
the personal data incident, its effects and the corrective measures
as taken, and thereafter
2. continuously check and ensure that the routines are followed.
The Data Inspectorate notes that the State's service center as personal data assistant and personal data manager at the time of the inspection lacked
personal data processing agreement that complied with the requirements of Article 28.4
respectively Article 28.3 of the data protection regulation, but that the State's
service centers now have personal data processing agreements that meet
the regulation's requirements. In this case, the Swedish Data Protection Authority takes no further action
corrective action due to this initially established
lack.

Account of the supervisory matter
A notification of a personal data incident regarding personal data that
concerned personnel at the Statens service center (hereafter SSC) and who were treated in
the Primula system was submitted to the Data Inspectorate on 25 June 2019. According to
report, the incident was discovered on March 28, 2019. The Swedish Data Protection Authority received
also in, from 13 August 2019 until the supervision was initiated, 37
notifications of personal data incidents in Primula from authorities such as

3 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

SSC is personal data assistant for, i.e. personal data controller
agencies. Each of the authorities responsible for personal data received
knowledge of the incident through a notification from SSC. According to
the reports, the incident occurred from and including March 14
on 30 May 2019. One of the authorities responsible for personal data attached
to his notification the said notification from SSC, which was dated 12
August 2019.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has started supervision with the aim of reviewing SSC's handling of
personal data incidents in the Primula system. The inspection began with a
letter to SSC on 18 September 2018 and followed up with the request for
completion on 5 November 2019 and 17 January 2020 respectively.
The State Service Center's tasks
SSC has essentially stated the following in response to the Data Inspectorate's questions.
On March 28, 2019, SSC received a notification from an employee of the same authority via the data protection officer of an authority responsible for personal data
(hereinafter "the notifier") that it was possible to access personal data which
belonged to other authorities responsible for personal data. An internal incident report was drawn up by SSC within twelve hours of this time. That bug
which was assumed to be the source of the problem was considered fixed on March 29, 2019.
However, it turned out that the bug was not solved or that new bugs appeared.
The complainant pointed this out to the SSC during April. SSC failed to recreate
the incident as described by the complainant. May 21, 2019 left
the notifier additional information about how the bug appeared and how it came to light
also that the notifier has taken additional programming measures in Primula.
SSC reported the matter to the personal data officer EVRY, as on 3 June
announced that the matter was resolved. SSC reported the complainant to the police on 24 May 2019
because according to SSC it was clear that he himself developed and executed code
in Primula in order to prepare access to data.
On August 12, 2019, SSC sent a notification re
the personal data incident to the 47 authorities responsible for personal data
who made use of Primula. A supplementary dispatch to the same
authorities was made on August 29, 2019.
About 282,000 registrants, of which 1,800 were employed by SSC, were affected by
the personal data incident. The following categories of personal data

4 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

covered: social security number, name, information on gender, information on protected
address information (but not the protected data), economic or financial
information (documents for calculating the correct tax such as tax table,
tax column, equalization, percentage tax, country of citizenship and work and
so on), period of employment, place of duty, work permit, key person,
calculated NOR, note about next of kin (however, no information about who it is
relatives are).
Regarding the degree of sensitivity of the data, according to SSC information about
social security numbers are partly considered worthy of protection in themselves, and partly regulated by strong
confidentiality according to ch. 39 Section 3 of the Publicity and Confidentiality Act (2009:400), OSL.
The latter secrecy applies to nine of the authorities that used it
Primula. Information that someone has protected address information may be covered
of confidentiality according to ch. 21 § 3 and ch. 39 Section 3 first paragraph OSL, confidentiality
is then extra weak or weak. SSC's assessment was therefore that some of
the personal data was subject to confidentiality and was of a privacy-sensitive nature.
The reason SSC delayed notifying was that SSC wanted to
confirmed if and how the incident occurred before the relevant authorities
was notified, which according to SSC is a prerequisite for being considered to have
knowledge/knowledge of the incident according to Article 33.2. The same reason was behind that
SSC, in its capacity as data controller, delayed reporting
the personal data incident to the Data Inspectorate. It was also stated in the report
about the personal data incident that it was still unclear how the unauthorized
the access actually looked like and whether unauthorized persons had access to
personal data for which SSC was the data controller, which it had not
could be confirmed at the time of notification.
The SSC perceived the responses provided by the system supplier, EVRY, as
vague Shortly after the incident, SSC asked the system provider about users
could access personal data of persons outside their own authority.
After that, SSC held recurring follow-up meetings and continued to ask
same question without getting a concrete answer from the system supplier. SSC got
nor an answer after the authority asked the question by email. After summer
SSC deemed it necessary to notify those concerned
the authorities, although the data (of the incident) still did not have
confirmed. At that time, the SSC also did not consider that there was any concern
to expose ongoing security flaws in the system by leaving
notification of the suspected incident.

5 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

It became clear relatively quickly after the report came in to SSC that there was
security flaws in Primula, but not necessarily that there has been one
personal data incident, except for the authority that reported the deficiency. The
On 20 August 2019, SSC received confirmation that it was possible to take part
personal data at other authorities for which SSC was personal data assistant
at. SSC has stated that the service center did not adequately investigate the incident
urgently and that the lack of clear and documented routines to
dealing with these issues in a coordinated manner has contributed to the delay with
to notify the relevant authorities.
SSC has a personal data processing agreement with EVRY which was made in the meantime
for the Personal Data Act (1998:204), PUL. Already before
the data protection regulation's entry into force, however, SSC has applied for a change in
existing PUB agreement to replace this with one that follows
the data protection regulation's terminology and form requirements in general.
SSC has documented the personal data incident through a police report, SSC's
notification to the Data Inspectorate, the notifications to them
the authorities responsible for personal data, the incident report which
was established and the communication with the notifier who discovered and
exploited the security hole. The documentation is kept in three different diaries
cases, of which the intelligence, the incident report and the communication
with the notifier is a separate matter.
After final communication, SSC has made the following points of view.
The personal data processor EVRY has contractually committed to deliver
a service that is compatible with current legislation. As an expression of that
agreed the requirement that the service must be compatible with current legislation has
Before the entry into force of the data protection regulation, SSC asked a number of questions
EVRY on how the new requirements resulting from the data protection regulation are handled
and secured in Primula. EVRY has both provided answers and changed functionality in the service, as a consequence of the new requirements. The commitments contained in it then
the current PUB agreement, together with other security requirements and contractual commitments, meant a perfectly adequate regulation in terms of material protection
and the processing of personal data. It happened
the personal data incident, and the deficiencies that subsequently existed in the handling,
was not a consequence of the then current personal data processor agreement or

6 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

other agreed commitments. However, SSC now has an updated one
personal data processing agreement with EVRY regarding Primula.
The Data Inspectorate's form for reporting personal data incidents has
used by SSC. It would be remarkable if the Data Inspectorate at its
control of compliance with Article 33 requires further
documentation than the basis according to which personal data controllers
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's own documents are obliged to report.
Other things that emerged in the inspection
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has taken note of the incident report that SSC drew up
connection with notification from a person to an authority on March 28, 2019. I
the report describes how the person who reported the incident could see among
different social security number for all employees of certain authorities. The report
further states that the incident based on damages, costs and consequences is that
view as very serious “when sensitive data became available to users
who should not have access to these”.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has noted that SSC in the notification to the authorities
on 12 August 2019 states that the SSC has deemed it necessary to ensure
that the necessary security measures have been taken before such notification
was left. This is because "the information concerns a number of authorities which
thereby gaining knowledge of each other's security flaws".
Datainspektionen has requested the police report that SSC made on 24 May
2019. From the police report it appears that SSC reported that a person who was employed
at one of the authorities that use SSC for their payroll processing, at two different times
occasions illegally entered the system and thus gained access
information belonging to other authorities and that the information consisted of
personal data and "payroll data".

Justification of decisions
Legal background
General about responsibility for personal data processing
A personal data controller is responsible for compliance
the provisions of the data protection regulation when processing personal data,
and to ensure that hired personal data processors comply
data protection regulation when they process personal data. IN
data protection regulation, this is clear from the fact that its provisions essentially

7 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

addresses the personal data controller, that he is responsible for according to Article 24
to implement technical and organizational measures to ensure and
be able to demonstrate that the processing of personal data takes place in accordance with
the data protection regulation and that according to article 28 it must only engage
personal data assistants who provide sufficient guarantees to carry out
appropriate such measures.
A data controller, including sub-processors, is responsible for compliance
the provisions of the data protection regulation that are directly aimed at
personal data assistants, including Article 33.2. In addition, can
personal data assistants become liable for violations of
the data protection regulation which is a consequence of their failure to comply with it
instructions of the data controller.
Obligation to have a personal data processing agreement
According to Article 28.3 of the Data Protection Regulation, a personal data assistant must be provided
processing of personal data on behalf of the data controller
regulated by a personal data processor agreement (or other binding legal act).
The agreement must, among other things, prescribe an obligation for personal data assistants
to ensure that the obligations in Articles 32-36 of the Data Protection Regulation
is fulfilled, taking into account the type of treatment and the information that
the personal data assistant must be available.
Personal data assistants hired by personal data assistants, so-called
assistants, shall be imposed according to Article 28.4 of the data protection regulation
the same data protection obligations set out in the personal data processor agreement with the personal data controller. Above all, the agreement must provide
sufficient guarantees that the subcontractor will carry out appropriate technical
and organizational measures in such a way that the processing meets
the requirements of the data protection regulation. The obligations must be imposed through an agreement
(or other binding legal act).
Obligation to notify the controller of personal data
Personal data assistants must notify the personal data controller without delay after the assistant becomes aware that a personal data incident has
took place, see article 33.2 of the data protection regulation. The personal data assistant shall
thus not make any probability assessment regarding the risks for them
registered rights and freedoms. It is the personal data controller who
must assess whether the personal data incident is such that it must be reported to

8 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

the supervisory authority. In order for the personal data controller to be able to fulfill
its notification obligation requires that the personal data assistant quickly
notifies the person in charge.
Obligation to report to the Data Protection Authority
It is clear from article 33.1 of the data protection regulation that the person responsible for personal data in the event of a personal data incident must report the incident to
the supervisory authority without undue delay and, if possible, not later
than 72 hours after becoming aware of it. If it is unlikely that
the personal data incident poses a risk to the rights of natural persons
and freedoms it does not need to be reported. If and to the extent it is not
possible to provide the information at the same time, receives the information
provided in installments without unnecessary further delay, see Article 33.4 i
data protection regulation.
According to the Article 29 Group's guidance WP250, in the event of a potential incident, the data controller may carry out a brief investigation to
determine whether an incident has actually taken place. During this
investigation period, the personal data controller cannot be considered to have received
"knowledge" of the incident. In most cases, according to the same guidance,
risk assessment and notification to the regulatory authority is completed as soon as possible
possible after the initial warning/suspicion that a
security incident has taken place which may involve personal data. Only in
in exceptional cases this should take longer. 1
Obligation to document personal data incidents
According to article 33.5 of the data protection regulation, the personal data controller must
document all personal data incidents, including the circumstances
about the personal data incident, its effects and the corrective measures
as taken. The documentation must make it possible for
the supervisory authority to check compliance with Article 33 i
data protection regulation.

Article 29 - Working Party on Data Protection, WP250rev.01; Guidelines on notification of
personal data incidents according to Regulation (EU) 2016/679; adopted on 3 October 2017;
last reviewed and adopted on February 6, 2018; adopted by the EDPB during the first
the plenary session on 25 May 2018; pp. 11–12. The working group was established according to Article 29 i
1

directive 95/46/EC and was an independent EU advisory body in matters relating to data protection
and integrity.

9 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

The documentation obligation in Article 33.5 is linked to
the liability in Article 5.2 of the Data Protection Regulation, that is to say that
the personal data controller must be responsible for and be able to demonstrate that they
the basic principles of data protection are complied with. There is also one
connection between article 33.5 and article 24 of the data protection regulation. The
the latter provision means that the person in charge of personal data must take
technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that
it performs personal data processing in accordance with
the provisions of the data protection regulation.2
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
Role distribution and summary of the course of events
SSC has regarding the violations of the data protection regulation like this
decisions relate to acting in different roles, as personal data controller and
personal data assistant. SSC has acted in the capacity of personal data processor
against 47 authorities responsible for personal data which, through
the connection to SSC, uses the system Primula for handling of
personal data about its staff. However, SSC has acted in the capacity of
personal data controller when processing personal data about their own
the authority's staff in the same system. SSC has hired the company EVRY as
personal data assistant for the operation of the system Primula. EVRY thus has
been personal data assistant for the processing of both personal data about
employees of the 47 authorities responsible for personal data which
personal data about employees of SSC.
An incident occurred on March 14, 2019, and on March 28, 2019, SSC received
a notification of the incident from the notifier. The notifier believed that the
could see personal data from other authorities than their own in Primula. One
incident report was prepared by SSC on March 28, 2019. After reporting
supplemented with additional information from the notifier on 21 May 2019
SSC drew up a police report against him on 24 May 2019.
As a personal data controller, SSC notified the above described
personal data incident to the Swedish Data Protection Authority on 25 June 2019. Report
referred to unauthorized access to personal data about the authority's own
staff.

2

WP250, rev01, p. 28.

1 0 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

In its capacity as data controller, SSC notified the 47
the authorities responsible for personal data on 12 August 2019.
On August 20, 2019, EVRY confirmed to SSC that the personal data incident
meant that it was possible for employees of any of the agencies that
used Primula to access personal data from the others
authorities that used the system.
The notifications to the authorities were made too late
The Norwegian Data Inspection Authority states that it took almost five months from that
that the incident was discovered on March 28, 2019 until SSC notified them
the authorities responsible for personal data on 12 August 2019. It is significant
more time than may be considered required for a shorter examination to
acquire knowledge that a personal data incident has occurred. To this
will SSC made a notification for its own part about six weeks before
the customer authorities were notified. It is clear that the SSC did not know more about
how the incident affected the personal data of the own staff than how
it affected employees of the authorities responsible for personal data. Major
knowledge therefore cannot justify that SSC did not send intelligence to them
the authorities in charge of personal data despite the fact that they made a report to
The Swedish Data Protection Authority for its own part.
The Data Protection Regulation requires that the person in charge of personal data be
notified without undue delay so that it may take the measures which
is needed due to an incident that has occurred. The Swedish Data Protection Authority assesses
that SSC had sufficient knowledge to be obliged to inform them
the authorities responsible for personal data already after the first notification from
a data protection officer at one of the authorities. It was then missing according to
Datainspektionen's assessment reason for SSC to wait
the notification to the authorities responsible for personal data in order to
"ensure that the necessary safety measures have been taken".
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that SSC by only having on 20 August 2019
notified the authorities responsible for personal data have violated article
33.2 of the data protection regulation.
The notification to the Swedish Data Protection Authority was made too late
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that it took almost three months from the time that
the incident came to SSC's attention on March 28, 2019 to the extent that SSC

1 1 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

submitted a report about the incident to the Data Inspectorate on 25 June
2019. This far exceeds the 72 hour time limit stated in Article
32.1 of the data protection regulation. It is also significantly more time than can
is considered required for a shorter examination to acquire knowledge that
a personal data incident has occurred.
SSC has stated to the Swedish Data Protection Authority that they, in the sense referred to in
Article 33 of the Data Protection Regulation, became aware of the incident on 20
August 2019 when EVRY confirmed that personal data could be accessed between them
the authorities that used Primula. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has in this
regard taken note of SSC's actions both as a personal data controller and
as data controller because SSC acted on the same incident i
both roles.
The Data Inspectorate's assessment is that SSC must have known that a
personal data incident had occurred, in the sense that SSC believed
the information provided to the authority about the personal data incident
on 28 March 2019 and 21 May 2019. The clearest indication of this
is that what was stated in the report to the Police Authority on 24 May 2019 was
that a person has access to personal data belonging to other authorities. To
judging by the internal report, the SSC did not dispute the information about the incident when
it was established on March 28, 2019.
Datainspektionen states against the background of the above that SSC has
violated article 33.1 of the data protection regulation by not reporting
the personal data incident within 72 hours from the time of notification
entered SSC on March 28, 2019.
No valid personal data processing agreement
During the period 28 March 2019 to and including 20 August 2019, SSC had, i
property of a data processor, not a data processor agreement with
EVRY which corresponded to the requirements of what a personal data processing agreement should
contain according to article 28.4 of the data protection regulation. SSC in capacity of
personal data controller was missing during the same period one
personal data assistant agreement with EVRY that corresponded to the requirements of what one
personal data assistant agreement must contain according to Article 28.3.

1 2 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

As a personal data controller, SSC has to ensure that it
personal data processing carried out on behalf of the authority is covered by
a personal data processing agreement.
An agreement between personal data assistants must have a content that corresponds
the requirements in Article 28.3. It is clear from article 28.4, which stipulates that the agreement
above all must "give sufficient guarantees to carry out appropriate technical
and organizational measures in such a way that the processing meets
the requirements of this regulation”. It is the personal data assistant who hires one
other assistant, in this case SSC, who will ensure that there is an agreement that
meets the specified requirements. This because the former
the personal data assistant is responsible for the processing of personal data vis-à-vis
the personal data controller for the assistants he has engaged.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that SSC in its capacity as data controller
respectively in the capacity of personal data assistant violated articles 28.3 and
28.4 of the data protection regulation by having hired one
personal data assistant without stipulating in an agreement or other legal act
such obligations as required by Article 28 of the Data Protection Regulation.
Shortcomings in the documentation in the role of personal data controller
The Data Inspectorate states that the documentation of
the personal data incident brought in by SSC does not clarify how SSC
complied with the notification that came from the informant and that gave SSC
knowledge of the incident. It is not clear how the SSC attempts to recreate
the incident took place and what grounds there were to question the information which
submitted by the notifier. Thus, the parts of the surrounding circumstances are missing
the personal data incident required to be able to demonstrate why the incident did not
reported within 72 hours. It is also not clear from the documentation what
SSC has done to get answers to the questions about the incident that SSC stated that
the authority had. There is no information about the circumstances surrounding
the personal data incident that could have explained the delay with
notification. Furthermore, the SSC has explained that the documentation of
the personal data incident as far as SSC as personal data controller is concerned - in form
of the police report, report to the Data Inspectorate, prepared incident report
and communication with the user who notified the SSC, is in three
matters in SSC's diary. The case with the most documentation –
the notifications to the authorities, the incident report and
the communication with the user, is in a matter relating to the SSC's role

1 3 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

as personal data assistant. The documentation does not show that it has been done
to fulfill the obligation according to Article 33.5 of the Data Protection Regulation
but appears to be motivated and ordered according to other principles.
A prerequisite for the Swedish Data Protection Authority to be able to follow up on a
personal data incident based on the documentation is that it is aggregated
and gives a fair picture of the course of events. The documentation has in it
this case did not make it possible for the Swedish Data Protection Authority to check
compliance with Article 33 of the Data Protection Regulation.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that SSC in its capacity as data controller
has violated Article 33.5 of the Data Protection Regulation by not
document the personal data incident in a way that made it possible for
the supervisory authority to check compliance with Article 33 i
data protection regulation.
Choice of intervention
Legal regulation
Article 58 of the data protection regulation lists all of the Data Protection Authority
powers. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has, in the event of violations of
the data protection regulation a number of corrective powers to be available according to
article 58.2 a - j, including reprimand, injunction and penalty fees.
It follows from Article 58.2 of the data protection regulation that the Data Inspectorate i
pursuant to Article 83 shall impose penalty charges in addition to or in lieu of
other corrective measures referred to in Article 58(2), depending
the circumstances of each individual case. If it is a question of a smaller one
violation the supervisory authority, according to reason 148 i
data protection regulation, issue a reprimand instead of imposing one
penalty fee.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has assessed above that SSC in the current processing of
personal data has violated articles 33 and 28 of the data protection regulation.
These articles are covered by article 83.4, which means that penalty fees which
main rule must be applied. It is a question of an authority. The penalty fee
can therefore according to ch. 6 Section 2 of the Data Protection Act (2018:218) is determined at most
SEK 5,000,000.
According to Article 83.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, each supervisory authority must
ensure that the imposition of administrative penalty charges in each individual

1 4 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

case is effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
In article 83.2 of the data protection regulation, all factors that must
taken into account when determining the size of the penalty fee. At the assessment
of the size of the penalty fee, account must be taken of, among other things, a)
the nature, severity and duration of the infringement, b) intent or
negligence, and g) the categories of personal data affected by
the violation.
Penalty fees shall be imposed
The personal data incidents that SSC did not notify the 47
the authorities responsible for personal data if personal data is covered in time
about 280,000 registered. The personal data that was at risk of being disclosed
included, among other things, social security numbers, information that people have been protected
address (but not the protected data itself) and information about
employment. It took almost five months before they
The authorities responsible for personal data were notified from the time SSC received
knowledge of the personal data incident. It is therefore not a question of less
violations and there is no reason to replace the penalty fee with one
reprimand.
The personal data incident that SSC in its capacity as data controller
not reported to the supervisory authority Datainspektionen in time covered
personal data of approximately 1,800 registered users. The personal data that
were at risk of being revealed covered, among other things, social security numbers, information that
persons have protected address and information about employment. It took some time
almost three months before SSC came in with another report
The Swedish Data Protection Authority from the time SSC became aware of the personal data incident.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that it is not a question of a minor violation and
that there is no reason to replace the penalty fee with someone else
Corrective Action.
SSC shall therefore be subject to administrative penalty fees for these
violations.
Personal data service agreement
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has also stated that SSC did not have
personal data processing agreement that complied with the requirements of articles 28.3
and 28.4 of the data protection regulation. However, SSC has stated that SSC had

1 5 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

personal data processing agreements that were drawn up in accordance with
the Personal Data Act, that work was underway to update the agreements and that
SSC now has a personal data processing agreement with EVRY which
complies with the requirements of the data protection regulation. Against that background
the Data Inspectorate finds that in this case there are reasons not to impose one
special penalty fee or other corrective action due to
the deficiency that previously existed.
Circumstances of importance for determining the penalty fee
size
The personal data incident affected approximately 280,000 employees at 47
authorities responsible for personal data as regards SSC's role as
personal data assistant and approximately 1,800 employees at SSC in terms of SSC's role
as personal data controller.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has, when assessing the penalty fee that applies
the failure to notify the personal data controllers in time
authorities, judged that the delay is in clear conflict with the weight
of personal data controllers quickly receiving information about incidents
personal data incidents so that they can take appropriate action.
That the information reaches out quickly is particularly important if
the personal data incident involves a high risk for natural persons
rights and freedoms, because the personal data controller must then
inform the data subjects without delay (see Article 34 i
data protection regulation). The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that in this case
there has not been a question of a personal data incident that likely involved one
such high risk. The Swedish Data Protection Authority assesses that this causes the delay
can be assessed as less serious than it might otherwise have been
the case.
At the same time, the Data Inspectorate considers that the incident involved a large number
registered, that it concerned the authority's core business and that it has
took several months from the time the SSC became aware of it until the time the SSC
informed the authorities. These circumstances are aggravating. It will
it is also emphasized that there is a larger number of violations, through i
the basis the same wrongful act, because each of the 47 affected
the authorities would have been notified without undue delay.

1 6 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

Regarding the penalty fee for the failure to notify in time
the personal data incident to the supervisory authority, that is to
Datainspektionen, this omission covered a smaller number
registered than the failure to notify the personal data controllers
authorities. An aggravating circumstance is also in this case that it
It took several months before SSC came in with another report
The Swedish Data Protection Authority.
As regards the nature of the personal data, the Swedish Data Protection Authority does not
reason to adopt a position other than SSC's regarding
the protection value of the personal data, i.e. that some of them were covered by
confidentiality and were privacy sensitive.
Regarding the delays in reporting and informing about the incident
done with intent or through negligence, the Data Inspectorate finds that SSC has
had an intention for the delays. The investigation shows that SSC, in it
meaning referred to in Article 33 of the Data Protection Regulation, had knowledge of
that a personal data incident occurred that involved both SSC's employees
as employees of the authorities responsible for personal data. This has
revealed partly through the internal personal data incident report which
was established on 28 March 2019, partly through the police report that SSC made
on 24 May 2019. Despite being aware of the incident, SSC has not reported it to
The Swedish Data Protection Authority in time or notified the authorities without authorization
delay. The provisions of Article 33 of the Data Protection Regulation are clear
as regards the time aspect and it moves, under the circumstances which
found out in the supervision, not about an excusable error of judgement.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority decides based on an overall assessment that the SSC shall
pay an administrative sanction fee of SEK 150,000 for the omission
to notify the authorities responsible for personal data
the personal data incident without undue delay and that SSC shall pay a
administrative sanction fee of SEK 50,000 for failure to report
the personal data incident to the Swedish Data Protection Authority without undue delay.
The amounts are intended to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
Injunction due to deficiencies in documentation
That the personal data incident was not documented in accordance with
the criteria in Article 33(5) have not constituted a minor infringement because
the documentation has not been able to be used by the Data Inspectorate to

1 7 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

check compliance with Article 33. In an examination in accordance with
article 83.2 a) however, the Data Inspectorate considers that the documentation nevertheless
has not been deficient to such an extent as to warrant the imposition of one
penalty fee. A penalty fee also does not appear to be proportionate.
However, SSC, in its capacity as data controller, must be ordered to
establish procedures for the documentation of personal data incidents that do so
possible for the Data Inspectorate to check compliance with Article 33 and
continue to check and ensure that these procedures are followed. The routines must
at least respond to the requirements of Article 33.5 of the Data Protection Regulation, which
stipulates that the data controller shall document all
personal data incidents, including the circumstances surrounding
the personal data incident, its effects and the corrective measures that
taken.

This decision has been made by the director general Lena Lindgren Schelin after
presentation by lawyer Elin Hallström. At the final processing has
also chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom, unit manager Malin Blixt and
unit manager Katarina Tullstedt participated. IT security specialist Johan
Ma has participated in the assessments relating to information security.
Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2020-04-28 (This is an electronic signature)
Appendix
How to pay penalty fee
Copy for the attention of:

Data Protection Officer for the Norwegian Service Center

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.

1 8 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-10409

You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

1 9 (19)

