1/11

936-031219

 Procedure No.: PS/00447/2019

RESOLUTION R/00097/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00447/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to XFERA MÓVILES, S.A., given the complaint
presented by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On January 22, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against XFERA MÓVILES,
S.A. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00447/2019

935-240719

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated June 17, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. with NIF A82528548 (hereinafter,
the claimed or Yoigo).

The claimant states that they are claiming an unpaid debt in

name of Yoigo, for a contract that I did not carry out.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

In addition, it provides supporting documentation of the invoices that it claims

Yoigo, from January and February 2016 and amounting to 70.90 and 27.41 euros.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant and the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

  Within the framework of file E/6773/2019, by means of a document signed on
07/12/2019, the claim was transferred to Yoigo, requesting that within the period of
one month will provide information on the facts set forth in the claim and detail
measures taken to prevent similar situations from occurring in the future.
The document was notified to the claimed party electronically, being the date of acceptance of
notification on 07/17/2019 as evidenced by the certificate issued by the FNMT
what works in the file.

After the period granted to the respondent without having responded to the
request for information, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.2 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, on Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(LOPDGDD), on 10/08/2019, the agreement for admission to processing of the
this claim.

On the other hand, in the framework of file number E/09581/2019, according to the
Article 67 of the LOPDGDD, the Data Inspection of the AEPD initiates actions of
prior investigation.

The certificate issued by the FNMT is in the administrative file, in the
stating that the notification dated 10/29/2019 was returned due to rejection
automatic on 11/09/2019 and the one issued by Correos certifies receipt by the
claimed from the notification corresponding to the information requirement that was
made in the course of the investigation, delivered, on 11/15/2019.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

The General Data Protection Regulation deals in article 5 with the
principles that must govern the processing of personal data and mentions among
them that of "legality, loyalty and transparency". The provision provides:

"1. The personal data will be:

a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner with the interested party;”

Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the

assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

(…)”

The violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD is typified in article 83
of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative”, says:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72.1.b) qualifies this infraction, for the purposes
of prescription, as a very serious infraction.

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it processed the personal data
of the claimant (name, surnames and DNI) linked to the registration in his name of a service
of telecommunications that the claimant denies having contracted.

It should be remembered that article 5 of the RGPD, after alluding in its section
1 to the principles relating to the processing of personal data -among them, as
has pointed out in the preceding Basis, that of "legality"-, it says in its section 2:

“The person responsible for the treatment will be responsible for compliance with the

provided in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (<<proactive responsibility>>)”

In the same sense, Recital 42 of the RGPD is pronounced, which says:
“When the treatment is carried out with the consent of the interested party, the
The data controller must be able to demonstrate that the data controller has given
consent to the treatment operation…”

Criterion that coincides with the doctrine followed by the Contentious Chamber
Administrative of the National High Court during the validity of the Law
Organic15/1999. The court considered that when the owner of the data denies
contracting corresponds the burden of proof to who affirms its existence, being
obligation of the data controller of third parties to collect and keep the
documentation necessary to prove the consent of the holder. We quote, for
all, the SAN of 05/31/2006 (Rec. 539/2004), Fourth Law Basis.

Well, with respect to the facts that are the subject of this claim,
We must point out that the defendant, despite the repeated requests she received from the
AEPD to explain the facts on which it deals, never responded or
provided any evidence that would allow estimating that the treatment of the data of the
claimant had been legitimate.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

We refer in this regard to the request for information that the AEPD
addressed the claim within the framework of E/6723/2019, therefore before the present
claim would have been admitted for processing (E/09581/2019). Request whose receipt
by the claimed party it is proven (certificate issued by the FNMT) that the
07/17/2019.

However, no response was received and on 10/15/2019 it was agreed
admission to processing of the claim. In the same vein, it should be noted that
investigation actions have been initiated (E/09581/2019), they are carried out by the
data inspection of this Agency two informative requirements to which
neither responds the claimed. Reminder that, circumscribed to the violation of the
article 6.1. of the RGPD, is intended to show that the claimed party has
had ample opportunities to provide evidence or documents that prove
that, contrary to the statements and documentary evidence provided by the
claimant, the processing of data that is subject to assessment in this case
was set to Right.

The lack of diligence displayed by the entity in complying with the
obligations imposed by the personal data protection regulations
it is therefore evident. Diligent compliance with the principle of legality in the treatment
of third-party data requires that the data controller be in a position
to prove it (principle of proactive responsibility)

In short, there is evidence in the file that the respondent dealt with the
personal data of the claimant without legitimacy to do so. Treatment that is
materialized in the registration of a telecommunications service linked to your data
personal. Treatment that, moreover, has been maintained over time for more than
four years, since they date from at least January 2016. The conduct described violates the
article 6.1. of the RGPD and is subsumable in the sanctioning type of article 83.5.a, of the
GDPR.

III

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the precautions

 
visions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

          "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing

personal.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of

the infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

  In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to be imposed
to the one claimed as responsible for an infraction typified in article 83.5.a) of the
RGPD, in an initial assessment, they are considered concurrent in the present case, as
aggravating factors, the following factors:

- The duration of the illegitimate treatment of the data of the affected person carried out by the
claimed. The documentation in the file shows that the treatment
of the data began, at least, before January 2016. What entails, in short, a
Very qualified aggravating circumstance (article 83.2.a, of the RGPD)

- The defendant violated article 6.1 RGPD, through a conduct subsumable in
Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD. The treatment materialized in the linking of the data
claims of the claimant to a telecommunications contract that he denies having signed.
Highly qualified aggravating circumstance that can be framed in article 83.2.a of the RGPD.

- The lack of cooperation with the AEPD in order to remedy the infraction and mitigate its

effects (article 83.2.f, of the RGPD)

- The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
processing of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the RGPD in
relation to article 76.2.b of the LOPDGDD).

Therefore, based on the foregoing,
By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START A SANCTION PROCEDURE against XFERA MÓVILES, S.A.
(YOIGO), with NIF A82528548, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD
typified in article 83.5.a) and classified as a very serious infraction, for the purposes of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

prescription, by article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: APPOINT instructor D. B.B.B. and secretary to Ms. C.C.C., indicating
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, and all
documents generated by the claim.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond to the infraction (article 83.5.a, RGPD) would be
60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the investigation.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. (YOIGO), with
NIF A82528548, granting a hearing period of ten business days for
formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate. In its
Allegation brief must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears
at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in the
Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that
the sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the total sanction
would be established at 48,000 euros (forty-eight thousand euros) resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the total sanction would be established at 48,000 euros (forty-eight thousand

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

euros) and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the total sanction would be established at 36,000 euros
(thirty-six thousand euros)

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above, 48,000 euros or 36,000 euros, you must do so
cash by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened
on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

>>

 : On February 10, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 36,000 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00447/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to XFERA MÓVILES, S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

