1/12

 Procedure No.: PS/00009/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 2, 2018
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the University of Extremadura with NIF Q0618001B (in
later, the claimed one).

The claimant states that on August 10, 2018, he submitted a request for access to
your personal data, processed in the pre-registration and admission procedure in the
undergraduate studies at the University of Extremadura for the 2018/2019 academic year.

Thus, the request for access was not answered after more than one
month from its presentation, being dismissed due to administrative silence.

And, provide the following documentation:

-Copy of the application for the right of access to the University of Extremadura dated
to August 10, 2018 in relation to the pre-registration and admission procedure of the
University of Extremadura for the 2018/2019 academic year.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim, of the
documents provided by the claimant and the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed one.

As background to this sanctioning procedure, it must be stated:

In another claim processed previously E/04599/2018, the
right of access formulated on April 18, 2018 in front of the University, if
well, with respect to the personal data processed in the pre-registration procedure and
admission for the 2017-2018 academic year.
On December 11, 2019, in procedure RR/00301/2019, with
Origin file E/08924/2018, the Spanish Data Protection Agency
agreed to uphold the motion for reconsideration because it did not meet the right of access to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

the requested data since the claimed party, in the allegations it provides, attaches the
same writings with which he responded to the exercise of the right of access
made on April 18, 2018.

On July 27, 2020, the respondent sends to this Agency the documentation
already sent previously on December 13, 2018 on the occasion of the file
E/08924/2018, which refers, in turn, to file E/04599/2018.

THIRD: On February 9, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 15 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that: “On November 15,
request for information is received from the AEPD in this regard, and the request is answered and sent.
information to both the AEPD and the applicant dated December 3, 2018.
Although it is true that said answer and documentation refers to the course
2017/2018, but it is the same as that corresponding to the 2018/2019 academic year as it is the
Same procedure and same data.

That the defendant enjoys the concept of interested in the procedure
E/08924/2018. However, it does not notify us of the motion for reconsideration filed
in said file as is its obligation, nor its corresponding procedure of
claims under art. 118 of Law 39/2015, causing formal defenselessness and
material to this part.

But what is more, we are not notified of the approving resolution either. we are before
a clear assumption contemplated in art. 47.1 a) and e) of Law 39/2015, and has
effects ex tunc, that is, from the date on which the null act was issued.

The defendant has a Network Services Access System, which allows the
access to the claimed to all their data, by obtaining the IDUEX (user) and
the establishment of a PINWEB (password), and for this you must authenticate
through the main email account of the Uex, digital certificate or electronic DNI.

This Administration is aware that this is known by the respondent, as it is an old
student of this University, and in fact, has (IDUEX and PINWEB), which has
used in the pre-registration process, and where you have been able to consult
permanently all your personal data, being perfect to know about it (DOC
4 and 5).

Break the principle of legal certainty with this sanctioning file. Yes
The request for the right of access of the respondent is registered on August 10,
2018, and the deadline for answering this administration is one month, it is understood that
the alleged infringement occurred on September 10, 2018. And according to art. 74 of
Organic Law 3/2018, minor infractions prescribe a year, so the
This alleged infraction is prescribed since September 10, 2019.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

In the event that it is understood that the limitation period begins with the resolution
estimate of the appeal for reconsideration, this being dated December 10, 2019,
the prescription would operate from December 10, 2020.

In any case, forwarded to the Agency (DOC 6) and to the claimant a reply to his
exercise of the Right of access to your personal data at the beginning of the 2019 academic year-
19”.

They provide an answer to the claimant dated February 23, 2021, in relation to his
request for access to your personal data, processed in the procedure of
Pre-registration and admission to undergraduate studies at the University of Extremadura
for the 2018/2019 academic year.
 
FIFTH: On February 25, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/11834/2019, as well as the documents
provided by the respondent and it is requested that it contribute to this Agency,
document proving that the person responsible for the treatment provided the affected party with a
remote, direct and secure access system to personal data, indicating the date
in which access was provided and its period of validity.

Likewise, if said right of access is complete or information is missing, in relation to
the provisions of article 13, paragraph 2.

On March 8, 2021, the respondent requests that the document be resubmitted
prior writing, due to the expiration of the electronic notification period.

On the same day, the 8th, the opening of the practice period for
evidence, and on March 23, 2021, the respondent provides the exercise of the right of
access to the University of Extremadura, stating in summary: "which makes
disposal of the university community a complete information system
intended for self-service in regard to the exercise of the right of access to the
personal identification, academic, labor data, etc... this procedure
electronic is composed of documents that in any case can be printed,
obtaining double access, both electronic and printed.

When verbal information is desired, the University of Extremadura has a
wide set of organizational means for direct consultation. In this
In this case, students can obtain information from the Information Service
Administrative, in the secretaries of the Centers and in the corresponding Services
Centers of Access, Degree, Masters and Doctorate and Own Studies.

In the electronic system, the student is identified through a user system
(IDUEX) and password (PINWEB).

Since the main means of access is electronic, access is immediate and the
electronic response is immediately available to the interested party.

All electronic accesses are free.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

Electronic access is free and has no limitation on the number of accesses
being available 24x7.

Members of the university community are permanently informed of the
existence of the Portal and the students know these means. accessing the road
electronically there are many documents that are issued in PDF format that
They can be printed later. In no case is the printing of the
documents.

The University of Extremadura informs registered or pre-registered students of
the existence of the academic data portal found on the institutional website.

The IDUEX and PINWEB obtaining system of the University of Extremadura.

System purpose:

The right of access to the personal information of the University student always
has been practiced through a mandatory document to be issued, which is the certification
official academic, where, together with the personal data that the University has
of the student, the academic data is found with a list of subjects
adjusted to the student's study plan. This document, due to its official nature,
has a shipping cost that is specified, annually, in the price order and
Public rates of the Junta de Extremadura. This document is requested directly
at the secretariat of the Center where the student is studying. This is the
first form of access to personal data, even if it is not free as it is
required in the GDPR. Parallel to this traditional method, there is the access
through computer applications made available to any member of the
university community (student, administration and services staff (PAS) and
teaching and research staff (PD) completely free of charge.
In order to exercise this right, it is required that the member of the community
university is identified before the management system of the University of
Estremadura. The form provided for identification starts on the web page of
the University (www.unex.es/credentials).

The first page that appears, at the top, indicates the following:
Credential management (the page is attached). This page indicates that those
people who are new to the University, they are given a means of obtaining the
appropriate identifier and key.
The next page that is obtained (attach the page). The document is requested
National Identity Document and pressing the ACCESS button takes you to the following screen
(screen attached). On this screen you are offered the possibility of
contact us by email or phone number
previously contributed by the same person and that have been uploaded to the Database
Data. This will receive an email with a temporary pin.

At that moment, the PINWEB that you want to have is included and when you click on the button
modify, it is saved encrypted in the access database.
From that moment there is no more communication.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

In short, a letter is not sent stating the IDUEX and the PINWEB to the user, but
that they are the ones who obtain it through this tool.
Regarding the way to use the query, it is done on the main page of the
University: www.unex.es/. At the bottom of the page there is a call to the Portal of
Services.
In this case, when entering the portal, the following screen is obtained in which
ask for authentication. To maintain confidentiality, only those who access know the
password (WEBPIN).
Once the passwords have been entered, you access the main page of the Portal and the
left of the page you get the menu of the following figure (the page is attached).
By clicking on academic personal data, the personal data that
listed in academic. As you can see there is a whole series of options that,
when they are consulted by any identified natural person, it allows knowing data
personal, work, academic, payroll, bank accounts, etc... That is, the
full exercise of the Right of Access, but designed from the University itself
and embedded in the application of art. 25 GDPR, so you don't have to ask for it.
When clicking on Academic personal data: the following is obtained (page attached).
As can be seen, there are all the identification data and they can be modified, although
some of them will be monitored for changes.
On the other hand, the academic data can be seen through the menu option
ACADEMIC DATA.
As can be seen, only with these identifiers are the rights available.
access and rectification, without the need for anyone's intervention or recourse to the
AEPD and available 24 hours/day/7 days/week (24x7). The way of obtaining
these identifiers are indicated to the students on the web page dedicated to the process
pre-registration: www.unex.es/preins.”,
 and request a copy of the file,
proceeding to the referral of the same.

SIXTH: On April 5, 2021, a resolution proposal is formulated in the following
terms:

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency impose
to UNIVERSIDAD DE EXTREMADURA, with NIF Q0618001B, for an infraction of the
Article 15 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of
warning.

The proposed resolution was notified electronically to the respondent, being the
date of making available on April 5, 2021 and the date of acceptance that
the same day.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding and of the

documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is stated that the claimant on August 10, 2018, submitted
request for access to your personal data, processed in the procedure of
Pre-registration and admission to undergraduate studies at the University of Extremadura
for the 2018/2019 academic year.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

The request was not answered after more than a month had elapsed since its
presentation, being dismissed due to administrative silence.

SECOND: The respondent sent the claimant and this Agency, in response to the
exercise of the right of access for the 2018/2019 academic year, procedure of
admission pre-registration for the 2017-2018 academic year.

THIRD: It is recorded that on February 23, 2021, the respondent answered the
claimant in relation to the exercise of the right of access to your personal data
of the 2018-2019 academic year.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the

Proven facts constitute an infringement.

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

Article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, General

Data Protection (RGPD), provides that:

"1. The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate
to the interested party all the information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication under articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language, in
particular any information directed specifically at a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by
electronics. When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.

2. The data controller will facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their
rights under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11,
section 2, the person in charge will not refuse to act at the request of the interested party in order to
to exercise your rights under articles 15 to 22, unless you can demonstrate
that it is not in a position to identify the interested party.

3. The data controller will provide the interested party with information regarding their
proceedings on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, and, in
in any case, within one month from receipt of the request. Saying
The term may be extended for another two months if necessary, taking into account the
complexity and number of requests. The person in charge will inform the interested party of
any such extension within one month of receipt of the
request, indicating the reasons for the delay. When the interested party submits the
request by electronic means, the information will be provided by electronic means
when possible, unless the interested party requests that it be provided in another way.

4. If the person in charge of the treatment does not process the request of the interested party,
will inform without delay, and no later than one month after receiving the
request, the reasons for its non-action and the possibility of presenting a
claim before a control authority and exercise legal actions.

5. The information provided under articles 13 and 14 as well as any
communication and any action carried out under articles 15 to 22 and 34
they will be free of charge. When the requests are manifestly unfounded or
excessive, especially due to their repetitive nature, the person responsible for the
treatment may:

a) charge a reasonable fee based on the administrative costs incurred

to facilitate the information or communication or perform the requested action, or

b) refuse to act on the request.

The data controller shall bear the burden of proving the character

manifestly unfounded or excessive of the request.

6. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 11, when the person responsible for the
treatment has reasonable doubts in relation to the identity of the natural person
that makes the request referred to in articles 15 to 21, may request that
provide the additional information necessary to confirm the identity of the interested party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

7. The information that must be provided to the interested parties by virtue of articles
13 and 14 may be transmitted in combination with standardized icons that allow
provide in an easily visible, intelligible and clearly legible form an adequate
overview of the planned treatment. The icons that are presented in format
electronic will be machine readable.

8. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with
article 92 in order to specify the information to be submitted through
icons and procedures for providing standardized icons.”

III

The defendant is charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of Article

15 of the GDPR.

Article 15 of the GDPR provides that:

"1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain from the data controller
confirmation of whether or not personal data concerning you is being processed and, in such
case, right of access to personal data and the following information:

the purposes of the treatment;

a)
b) the categories of personal data in question;
c) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom they were communicated or
personal data will be communicated, in particular recipients in third parties or
international organizations;

d) if possible, the expected term of conservation of the personal data or,

not possible, the criteria used to determine this term;

e) the existence of the right to request from the controller the rectification or deletion
of personal data or the limitation of the treatment of personal data related to the
interested, or to oppose said treatment;

f) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
g) when the personal data has not been obtained from the interested party, any

available information about its origin;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

h) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

2. When personal data is transferred to a third country or to an organization
international, the interested party shall have the right to be informed of the guarantees
appropriate under Article 46 relating to the transfer.

3. The controller will provide a copy of the personal data
treatment object. The person in charge may receive for any other requested copy
by the interested party a reasonable fee based on administrative costs. When the
The interested party submits the request by electronic means, and unless he requests
provided otherwise, the information will be provided in an electronic format of
Common use.

4. The right to obtain a copy mentioned in section 3 shall not affect

negatively to the rights and freedoms of others.”

Article 13 of the LOPDGDD determines the following:

IV

"1. The right of access of the affected party will be exercised in accordance with the provisions

in article 15 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

When the person in charge processes a large amount of data related to the affected party and
he exercises his right of access without specifying whether it refers to all or part
of the data, the person in charge may request, before providing the information, that the
affected specify the data or treatment activities to which the
request.

2. The right of access shall be deemed granted if the data controller
will provide the affected party with a remote, direct and secure access system to the data
that guarantees, permanently, access to its entirety. to such
effects, the communication by the person in charge to the affected of the way in which the latter may
accessing said system will suffice to consider the request to exercise the
law.

However, the interested party may request from the person in charge the information referred to
the ends provided for in article 15.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 that are not
included in the remote access system.

3. For the purposes established in article 12.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
may consider repetitive the exercise of the right of access on more than one occasion
for a period of six months, unless there is legitimate cause for it.

4. When the affected party chooses a means other than the one offered that supposes a
disproportionate cost, the request will be considered excessive, so said
affected will assume the excess costs that their choice entails. In this case, just
The data controller will be required to satisfy the right of access without
undue delay.”

v

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

In this sense, article 77.1 c) and 2, 4 and 5 of the LOPGDD, indicates:

1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the

Autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2 “When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this
organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the conduct or correct the
effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
of interested, in his case.”

4. The resolutions must be communicated to the data protection authority
that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions
dictated under this article.”

Article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered minor

has:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

  “They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of
merely formal character of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

c) Failure to respond to requests to exercise the rights established in the
articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, unless the
application of the provisions of article 72.1k) of this organic law.”

SAW

In the present case, at first, the data controller
of the data did not grant access to the requested data in the terms provided
in the transcribed data protection regulations, but merely provided the
same writings with which he responded to the exercise of the right of access
formulated on April 18, 2018 regarding the pre-registration procedure and
admission for the 2017-2018 academic year.

Now, it is clear that on February 23, 2021, the respondent answered
to the claimant in relation to the exercise of the right of access to their data
personal at the beginning of the 2018-2019 academic year.

In relation to what is alleged by the respondent that the
prescription, it is necessary to point out in this regard what Law 40/2015, of 1
October, of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, in its article 30.2, indicates: "The term
of prescription of the infractions will begin to be counted from the day in which the
offense had been committed. In the case of continued violations or
permanent, the term will begin to run from the end of the offending conduct.

The prescription will be interrupted by the initiation, with the knowledge of the interested party, of
an administrative procedure of a sanctioning nature, restarting the term of
prescription if the sanctioning file was paralyzed for more than a month
for reasons not attributable to the alleged perpetrator.”

Well, being a continuous infraction, the prescription began to be counted,
as of February 23 of this year, when the respondent gave
compliance with the request for the right of access of the claimed party.

In relation to the fact that defenselessness has occurred, the same has not occurred

since in this procedure you can exercise your right of defense.

 Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the UNIVERSITY OF EXTREMADURA, with NIF Q0618001B,
for an infringement of Article 15 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD,
a warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution
EXTREMADURA, with NIF Q0618001B.

the UNIVERSITY OF

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

