 

 

European Union Agency for Cybersecurity  
Athens, Greece 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brussels, 09 March 2021 
Ref: OUT2021-0047 

 

ENISA published  a  draft version  of  the candidate European  Cybersecurity  Certification Scheme  for 
Cloud  Services  (EUCS)  on  22  December 2020. Following  the  publication,  ENISA  launched  a public 
consultation on the draft scheme. The EDPB takes this opportunity to provide feedback on the EUCS 
candidate scheme, more specifically in relation to the potential synergies between the EUCS scheme 
with a view to supporting Cloud Service Customers (CSC) and Cloud  Service Providers (CSP)  to comply 
with the principles  and rules established in the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR)1 with regard to the 
protection of personal data. 

On  the one  hand, in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2019/881 (Cybersecurity  Act)2, cybersecurity 
aims  at the protection of  “network and information  systems,  the users  of  such  systems, and  other 
persons  affected by  cyber threats”, thereby also  contributing to  security of  the processing  of  their 
personal data.  
 
On the other hand, data protection rules laid down in the GDPR have as main objective the protection 
of natural persons  with regard to the processing of  their personal data. A key principle  of the GDPR 
enshrined in article 5 (1) (f), imposes  the respect of the ‘confidentiality and integrity’ of personal data 
undergoing processing. This key principle needs to be considered alongside article 32 of the GDPR that 
provides more specifically to the security of personal data processing. 
 
The EDPB considers  it important to  identify  and  define  synergies  between the different  tools  that 
support data protection compliance and those that support information security. In this context, it is 
also important to ensure that the controls and requirements in the cybersecurity certification scheme 
do not conflict with the rules and principles of the GDPR. By doing so, adherence to these tools by the 
concerned stakeholders would also be facilitated. 
 
In particular, the EDPB agrees with the approach adopted by the EUCS candidate scheme according to 
which  the latter “does not aim at verifying the compliance of a cloud service to any regulation beyond 

                                                             
1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC 
2  Regulation (EU) 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the  Council of 17 April 2019 on ENISA (the 
European Union Agency for Cybersecurity) and on information and communications technology cybersecurity 
certification and repealing Regulation (EU) No 526/2013 

1 

 

the EUCSA, and in particular it does not aim at verifying compliance with GDPR”. Moreover, Article 54 
of the EU Cybersecurity Act states that the 'requirements of the European cybersecurity certification 
scheme  shall  be  consistent  with  any  applicable  legal  requirements'. Furthermore,  the  EDPB  also 
acknowledges the candidate scheme could contribute to facilitate compliance with the GDPR, i.e. in 
securing personal data processed  by the cloud service provider, in  line with the ‘confidentiality and 
integrity’ principle as per Article 5 (1) (f) GDPR.  
 
The EDPB also welcomes the EUCS certification scheme initiative as tool to harmonize the security of 
cloud computing services at European level. The EUCS scheme will furthermore improve transparency 
on  guarantees  for  security  measures  provided  by  a  cloud  service  for  public  institutions,  private 
companies and indirectly customers. 
 

 

1.  Personal data processing under the GDPR and security requirements  

The EUCS scheme  provides  for a definition  of  “cloud service customer data”, “cloud service derived 
data”  and  “cloud  service  provider  data”  as  classes  of  data  objects  categorized into  non-critical, 
business  critical and mission  critical information.  

In this regard, the EDPB recalls that Article 4 (1) GDPR provides for the definition of  “personal data”3. 
Article 9 GDPR moreover defines  the concept of  “special categories of personal data”4. The latter is 
comprised  of  personal  data,  which  are  by  their  nature,  particularly  sensitive  in  relation  to  the 
fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and merit higher protection and security. 

In light of  the above, the EDPB notes that the EUCS scheme introduces classes  of  data objects that 
may include personal data, without referring to the concepts of personal data and special categories 
of personal data defined in the GDPR. Moreover, the EUCS scheme assurance levels are intended to 
minimize known basic risks of incidents and cyber-attacks up to risks of state-of-the-art cyberattacks 
carried out by actors with significant skills  and resources, while data controllers are also required to 
implement  appropriate  technical  and  organizational  measures  to  ensure  a  level  of  security 
appropriate to the risk  for  the rights and freedoms  of  natural persons  and taking into  account the 
scope, context and purpose  of  the processing  in order to  comply with  Article 32 GDPR (Security  of 
processing).  

Therefore, and  since  the  risk  inherent  in  processing  of  personal  data is  of  varying  likelihood  and 
severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons  depends  amongst others on  the category of 
personal data processed, the inclusion  of personal data and special categories of personal data into 
the EUCS scheme is even more critical. 

                                                             
3 According to Article 4 (1) GDPR, “‘personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable 
natural person (‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, 
in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification n umber, location data, an online 
identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or 
social identity of that natural person”. 
 
4 Article 9 (1) GDPR  defines special category data as “personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political 
opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, genetic data, biometric data (where used 
for identification purposes), data concerning health, a person’s sex life and data concerning a  person’s sexual 
orientation”. 
 

2 

 

Recommendation 1: 

In order to provide an added value to the EUCS scheme and to ensure that -insofar  as personal data 
are concerned-  no  inconsistencies  with  the definitions  and concepts  of  the GDPR occur  the EDPB 
suggests to introduce personal data and special categories of personal data as categories of data into 
the EUCS scheme, taking into account that derived data (not directly provided  by data subjects) may 
be personal data. These two categories of data should  also be taken into account to guide CSPs and 
CSCs when applying for an appropriate assurance level. 

 

To  further  support  the  compliance  with  GDPR obligations  by  CSCs,  and  depending  on  the  cloud 
capability type, the CSP may already be aware of the processing of  personal data taking place in its 
cloud  service. For  example, an application cloud  service, may  process  personal  data as  part of the 
service offered to the CSC  (e.g. online HR software). For this  type of service, the CSP  should  offer a 
level of security already adapted to the risks of this particular personal data processing  and therefore 
have  a  certification  with  a  level  of  assurance  adapted to  its  context.  Indeed, the  GDPR requires 
processors  to assist  controllers5 in ensuring  compliance with the obligations  pursuant to Articles 32 
taking into account the nature of processing and the information available to the processor.   

 

Recommendation 2: 

The EDPB suggests that the EUCS scheme encourages CSPs  to choose  for their certification a level of 
assurance  that  already  takes  into  account,  where  applicable,  the  type  of  personal  data  likely  or 
intended to be processed  and the risks  to the rights and freedoms of natural persons  resulting from 
the processing carried out. 
 

2.  The differences between data protection rights (the right to data portability) and 

principles (confidentiality, integrity, transparency) and the security objectives 
(confidentiality, integrity, transparency, portability) in the  EUCS candidate scheme  

The EDPB also wants to stress the importance of  the principles relating to processing of personal data 
set forth by Article 5 GDPR. Adequate security of personal data, mentioned in article 5 (1) (f) GDPR as 
the principle of ‘integrity and confidentiality’, is only one of them. Other principles must be considered 
when processing personal data, such as ‘lawfulness, fairness and transparency’, ‘purpose limitation’, 
‘data minimization’, ‘accuracy’, ‘storage limitation’ and ‘accountability’.  

For  instance, in  relation  to the  principle  of  transparency, the EDPB welcomes  the  inclusion  of  the 
“Complementary Customer Controls”6, according to which a CSP must provide information about the 
location of the processing and storage of data as well as the applicable law. Such information might 
help the CSC who wants to process personal data in the context of cloud computing services provided 

                                                             
5 Allocation of responsibilities for personal data processing in the context of cloud services has to be assessed 
on a case by case basis. The current EDPB guidelines on controller and processor in the GDPR can be found 
here: 
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/consultation/edpb_guidelines_202007_controllerprocessor_en.pdf 
6 Control DOC-03 LOCATIONS OF DATA PROCESSING AND STORAGE (pg. 151 of EUCS) 

3 

 

by  the  CSP  to  comply  with  security  requirements  and  comply  with  the  requirements  of  GDPR, 
especially with regard to the transfers of personal data to third countries7. 
 
 
Recommendation 3: 
 
The  EDPB  recommends  including  the  requirements  about  the  location  of  data  processing  in  all 
assurance levels. Not including these requirements in the basic assurance level, as it is currently the 
case, would exclude this assurance level of the EUCS scheme to facilitate the compliance with GDPR 
for any personal data processing. 
 

The principles  mentioned above should  guide all processing  activities concerning personal data and 
are of  particular relevance to allow data subjects  to have control over the personal  data relating to 
them, especially through the exercise of  their rights as data subjects  under the GDPR. For instance, 
the right to portability further  strengthens the control of  the data subjects  over the personal  data 
relating  to  them,  by  allowing  them  to  receive  personal  data  concerning  them  in  a  structured, 
commonly used, machine-readable and interoperable format, and to transmit those data to another 
controller. The high level of portability that can be achieved by the cloud service providers certified 
under EUCS candidate scheme meets different requirements than the right of portability in the GDPR. 

 

Recommendation 4: 

Therefore, the EDPB suggests clearly indicating in the scheme that the portability control in the EUCS 
scheme should  not be confused with the right of portability in the GDPR. 

 

The mandate received by ENISA to develop the EUCS candidate scheme is based on Article 54 of the 
EU  Cybersecurity  Act.  This  article  states  that  the  'requirements  of  the  European  cybersecurity 
certification  scheme  shall  be  consistent  with  any  applicable  legal  requirements'.  These  legal 
requirements include the compliance with the data protection acquis when the cloud service provided 
by the CSP involves  the processing of personal data.   

 

Recommendation 5: 

In this  regard, the EDPB recommends the involvement  of the CSP’s  Data Protection Officer (DPO) in 
the early stages of the designing of the service to assist the CSP  to monitor internal compliance with 
the GDPR.  By doing so, the security by design of the cloud service will be reinforced by  contributing 
to the obligation of ‘data protection by design’.  

 

                                                             
7 See, for example, Articles 13 (1) (f), 14 (1) (f) and 15 (2) GDPR and more generally Chapter V of the GDPR. 

4 

 

The EDPB namely considers  that the advice provided  by  the DPO to the CSP  is an element that can 
positively  contribute  to  the  adoption  of  appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  to 
safeguard the rights and freedoms  of natural persons  in  the context of the EUCS candidate scheme 
and  to  ensure  the  consistency  with  the  applicable  legal  requirements  established  by  the  EU 
Cybersecurity Act. 

 

3.   Extension of the audit rights for data controllers / processors  

The EDPB welcomes that “the CSP shall grant its CSCs contractually guaranteed information and define 
their audit rights”.  

 

Recommendation 6: 

The EDPB recommends envisaging this possibility  not only  for the “High level” of assurance, but also 
for  the “Basic” and  for the “Substantial” levels  of  assurance. Not including  this  requirement in the 
“Basic” and “Substantial” assurance levels would exclude these assurance levels of the EUCS scheme 
from facilitating compliance with GDPR Article 28 (3) (h).  

 

Therefore, it  is  also  important to  ensure  that this  possibility  is  clearly mentioned  in  the contract 
governing the provision of the cloud services between the CSP and the CSC, especially if it involves the 
processing of personal data. Not including this requirement in the “Basic” and “Substantial” assurance 
levels would exclude these level of certification to be used to facilitate compliance with Article 28 (3) 
(h) GDPR.  

 

4.  The EUCS scheme incident management requirements as support to the GDPR data breach 

requirements 

Article 4 (12) GDPR defines a personal data breach as a “breach of security leading to the accidental 
or  unlawful  destruction, loss,  alteration,  unauthorised  disclosure  of,  or  access  to,  personal  data 
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed”. The EUCS scheme requires in requirement IM-01.4 that 
“The CSP shall inform the customers affected by security incidents in a timely and appropriate manner”. 
Article 33(2) GDPR however requires that “the processor shall notify the controller without undue delay 
after becoming aware of a personal data breach”.  

 

 

Recommendation 7: 

The EDPB suggests adapting the wording of the EUCS requirements to reflect the GDPR requirements 
for personal data breaches and to make these requirements mandatory for all assurance levels of the 

 

5 

scheme. Not including  these  requirements in  the “Basic” and “Substantial” assurance levels  would 
preclude the use  of  these assurance levels  of the EUCS  scheme to facilitate compliance with GDPR 
Article 33 (Notification of a personal data breach to the supervisory authority).    

 

5.  The EUCS scheme as facilitator for  GDPR Codes of conduct / certifications   

By relying on a cybersecurity certification scheme harmonized at the European level, the private and 
public organizations that elaborate European or national codes of conduct or certification schemes, in 
accordance  with  Articles  40  and  42  GDPR, may  support  the  applicants  in  demonstrating  their 
compliance with such GDPR accountability tools. In particular, for applicants that rely on those GDPR 
accountability tools for the purpose  of demonstrating compliance with the GDPR of their processing 
operations,  the  EUCS  certificate or  the related audit  report  may  facilitate their  assessment  when 
identical or similar criteria are used in both tools. 

Additionally,  the  EUCS  scheme  permits  under  certain  conditions  its  assessment  to  a  simplified 
methodology  based on  a self-assessment  performed by  the CSP.  In this  methodology, a conformity 
assessment body  (CAB) can then audit the results of the self-assessment. As a consequence, if CSPs  
apply for a GDPR accountability tool that makes reference to some  criteria of the EUCS scheme, the 
compliance to these criteria  would need to be reassessed by a certification body or a monitoring body 
accredited, respectively,  under Article 41 or 43 GDPR.  
 
Recommendation 8: 
 
Therefore,  the  EDPB  suggests  that  all  levels  of  the  EUCS  can  benefit  from  equivalent  proofs  of 
compliance by  allowing a fully  independent  third-party assessment. Not including  this  requirement 
would  exclude  the EUCS  certificates or  audit report based  on  the self-assessment  methodology  to 
facilitate compliance with GDPR accountability tools. 
 
 

Conclusion 

The EUCS certification may help  supporting data protection security requirements and facilitate the 
adoption of this tool by stakeholders by: 

- 
- 

- 

- 

introducing a personal data category in the EUCS scheme; 
taking into account the notion of risks of personal data processing to the rights and freedoms 
of natural persons; 
reinforcing the EUCS security requirements needed to comply with the data protection rules 
on the security of processing; 
including  in  all  assurance  levels  the  GDPR security  requirements  mentioned  in  this  letter. 
Excluding these requirements from some assurance levels of the EUCS scheme would result 
for  the  concerned  assurance  levels  to  not  be  usable  to  support  compliance  with  GDPR 
requirements. 

 
The above suggestion has only to be considered as a preliminary guidance. Assessments of the risks 
for personal data processing have to be done on a case-by-case basis under the responsibility  of the 
data  controller.  Indeed,  the  GDPR  accountability  principle  requires  data  controllers  to  take 
responsibility  for  what  they  do  with  personal  data  and  how  they  comply  with  the  all  the  GDPR 
principles. 

 

6 

 
 
The EDPB remains open to any further discussion  elaborating on how the EUCS certification scheme 
could contribute to facilitate compliance with the GDPR. 
 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 

