1/106

 Procedure No.: PS/00021/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection (as regards
hereafter, AEPD) and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 27, 2019, the director of the AEPD, before the news
appeared in the media regarding the use of fraudulent practices
dulent based on the generation of duplicate SIM cards without the consent
of their legitimate owners in order to access confidential information for purposes
(known as “SIM Swapping”), urges the General Subdirectorate of Ins-
Data Collection (hereinafter, SGID) to initiate ex officio the Prior Actions of
Research aimed at analyzing these practices and existing security measures.
you for its prevention.

Namely:

The Duplicate SIM Scam: If Your Phone Does Weird Things, Check Your Bank Account
| Economy | THE COUNTRY (elpais.com)
https://elpais.com/economia/2019/05/21/actualidad/1558455806_935422.html

The dangerous fashion scam: Duplicate your mobile number to empty your account
bank | Technology (elmundo.es)
https://www.elmundo.es/tecnologia/2020/10/15/5f8700b321efa0c9118b462c.html

SECOND: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant party one), on December 12
of 2019, files a claim with the General Registry of the Regional Council of
***LOCATION.1, which is registered with the AEPD on December 13, 2019,
directed against TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with CIF A78923125 (in
hereinafter, TME), for the following reasons:

“On 03/06/2019 a duplicate of the ***TELÉFONO.1 SIM card was made in the state-
establishment of THADER TELECOMMUNICATIONS of ***LOCALIDAD.2, without my consent.
feeling, at 18:45:41. Through this duplicate they have been able to access my
bank account, hurting me financially. I request that you sanction this use
lization of data without consent.

Together with the claim, it provides the complaint filed for these facts, on the 8th of
March 2019, with procedure number ***DILIGENCIA.1 extensions of the diligence
***DILIGENCIA.2 -related to another complaint previously filed by some
similar events-, before the Mossos d'Esquadra USC of ***LOCATION.3 (Barcelona)
in which he denounces that: "(...) they have duplicated the SIM card of his mobile ***TE-
LÉFONO.1 and this time, they have accessed their BBVA online banking and have made two
transfers for a total value of 28,000 euros. (...) That the final current account that
receives the transfers is the ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 of BBVA in the name

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/106

of B.B.B.. (…) That precisely, since the afternoon of March 6, 2019, the de-
complainant was left with the mobile inoperative. (…) That it will present a claim to
Movistar for this reason also since it is the second time that they perform a duplicate-
do of your SIM card without your authorization or physical ID.”

Also, provide a copy of the email sent from the email address ***EMAIL.1 to
TE_COMMERCIAL SUPPORT, with the following tenor:
 

"Good,

This client comes for the first time on 02/07, they had called him from ***PRO-
VINCIA.2, that a man went around the shops wanting to make a duplicate of his li-
na. And that he thought he no longer had a line on ***PHONE.2, evidently, in-
sections in CTC and they had done it from MOVISTAR CARREFOUR ***PROVIN-
CIA.1 A DUPLICATE ON 02/5/2019.

He lives in ***LOCATION.4, a town near ***LOCATION.3, in the province
from Barcelona.

WE MADE a duplicate of ***PHONE.2 again and apart from that we made a new number.
vo, which is ***TELEPHONE.1, the client went to the bank and in exchange (sic) the number of
contact for the new on all sites, just in case. But the surprise was that
yesterday at 18:45 they did the same thing again, a DUPLICATE (sic) but of the number
new, the ***PHONE.1 and this time they have used it to empty 28,000 euros of
your bank account.

Demand that you always be asked for your ORIGINAL DNI AND A PASSWORD TO DO
ANY PROCESS, BY PHONE OR IN STORE. put a note
IN CTC REPORTING IT. and above all he wants to be calm that if it is not the na-
die can do anything in your name

And he demands that the two duplicates be returned to him on the invoice, since it is a matter of a
movistar worker who is making duplicates without asking for original identity.

The client wants to know this time if it has also been in the Carrefour of ***PROVIN-
CIA.1, but since they did not enter CTC, YESTERDAY'S HISTORY does not appear and I
It won't let me see who made the duplicate.

I ATTACH THE FIRST COMPLAINT, THE FIRST DUPLICATE AND THE REGISTRATION OF THE
NEW NUMBER THAT WE DID ON 7/02.

THE DUPLICATE INVOICES OF DAY 7/02 AND DAY 7/03 FOR YOUR DE-
RETURN AND PROOF OF THE BANK WHERE THE NAME APPEARS
BRE OF THE PERSON WHO HAS MADE THE IDENTITY THERAPY.
AND THE AMOUNTS THAT HAVE BEEN TAKEN AWAY.

ID I SIGNED CONTRACTS.”

It also provides a screen print of the duplicate SIM card issued
on March 6, 2019, regarding the subscriber number ***PHONE.1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/106

On December 16, 2019, claimant one, filed a new brief
before the General Registry of the Regional Council of ***LOCALITY.1, which is registered
in the AEPD on December 17, 2019, through which he submits a complaint
presented on February 7, with procedure number ***DILIGENCIA.2 before the
Mossos d'Esquadra USC of ***LOCATION.3 (Barcelona) in relation, on the one hand,
to an identity theft attempt in 5 Movistar stores in
*** PROVINCE.2 to obtain a duplicate of your SIM card regarding the number of
subscriber ***TELÉFONO.2 and on the other hand, in relation to the issuance of a duplicate
of your SIM card on February 6, 2019, at a Carrefour in ***PROVINCIA.1.
Regarding this last issue, it provides the distributor code ***CODE.1 and the
number of the agent responsible for said expedition: ***AGENTE.1.

It also provides a screen print of the duplicate SIM card issued
on February 5, 2019, regarding the subscriber number ***PHONE.2.

In accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in what
hereafter, LOPDGDD), which consists of transferring them to the Delegates of
Data Protection designated by those responsible or in charge of the treatment, or
to these when they have not been appointed, and with the purpose indicated in the aforementioned
article, on January 22, 2020, the claim was transferred to TME and to
THADER TELECOMMUNICATIONS, S.L. (hereinafter referred to as THADER), so that
give their analysis and respond within a month.

In response to said requirements, THADER stated -among other arguments-
the next:

“(…) 3 — Report on the causes that have motivated the incident that has originated
do the claim:

On 03/06/2019 a customer visited our Movistar store located in
***ADDRESS.1 of ***TOWN.2 (***PROVINCE.2), requesting a change
SIM card of the number ***PHONE.1 providing this documentation:





Photocopy of the DNI of the holder of the line.

Photocopy of the complaint for theft of the DNI holder of the line and mobile with the number
mere ***PHONE.1.

 Authorization signed for its management.



Photocopy of the passport of the authorized person.

Validating the documentation provided, the SIM card is changed
according to Movistar's operations in the Authorized to traditional section".
According to Art. 6 of RGPD Lawfulness of Treatment
I.A The interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data-
them for one or more specific purposes.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/106

I.B The treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the inter-
resado is part or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures
them.
4 — Report on the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring.
similar ties, dates of implantation and controls carried out to verify their
effectiveness
In view of the way of acting to produce this type of fraud or opt-in swapping
We agree to accept the identification of the holder on the SVIC option (scanner),
only the original and valid DNI being valid and in the presence of the holder, leaving the
other validation options not suitable.
We implemented these measures on 01/24/2020, by our own decision, by
our DPD and on the recommendation of our headquarters about similar frauds de-
tected at the national level "Annex 2".
We proceed to the daily control of SIM card changes with strict documentation.
channeled in SVIC.
5 — Any other that you consider relevant
The company in its procedures implements training for its dependency on
LOPD and RGPD to staff via training.
Request to the head office to inform us of similar causes of fraud at a national level.
nal.
We put at your disposal our record of activities, security document,
ity 2016 with respect to LOPD 15/1999, files registered prior to coming into force
GDPR compliance and permanently updated activity log to de-
show collaboration and proactive responsibility from the beginning
tes and after the entry into force of the EU regulation 2016/679 by this
address.
ATTACHED DOCUMENTATION
Annex 1 Extract SIM duplicate identification bulletins
Annex 2 Mail Responsible for Movistar on fraud
FICHE DEFI THADER TELECOMMUNICATIONS S.L
THADER TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECURITY DOCUMENT
INTERNAL AUDIT THADER TELECOMMUNICACIONES, S.L
RGPD MANUAL THADER TELECOMUNICACIONES, S.L”

For its part, TME did not respond to this request, notified on the 27th of
January 2020, through the Electronic Notifications and Electronic Address Service.
nica Enabled, according to the certificate that appears in the file.

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 30 of
March 2020, in the file with no. of reference E/00560/2020.

THIRD: C.C.C. (hereinafter, the claimant party two), on March 6,
2020, files a claim with the AEPD against TME, for the following

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/106

reasons:

“On February 13, 2020, I was the victim of fraudulent SIM card duplication in
the CATHOME store in ***LOCALIDAD.4 (Barcelona) which is a distributor of Tele-
Movistar phone.

This information (SIM duplication and location) is provided by Telefónica
when I called to ask what was happening with the service when I realized that I did not have-
I didn't have access to the network.

Consequence of fraudulent duplication, carried out by means of impersonation
of identity, was the theft of 18,000 euros in my bank accounts at Banco San-
tander.

I called CATHOME and Movistar Customer Service several times
to gather more information on the details of how the event happened, but everything
they were evasive. At CATHOME they told me to wait and see what they could tell me.
About 5 hours later they send me an SMS (I had already recovered my number
telephone) from which it follows that they recognize that the fact of the
duplication but wait longer, to date, they have not been put back
in contact with me. How was the process of identifying the thief carried out? (me
I never lost my ID or my credit cards)

Is there a mandatory protocol to carry out a duplication of tar-
SIM card? Did the store follow protocol? Is this protocol adequate in relation to
to the risk that is run?

In my opinion, a little research can be done to make sure that the person
who asks for the duplicate is who he says he is and many of the crimes that can be
commit with this class of methods would be nullified, so I think there is
a clear SECURITY GAP and this is one of the reasons why I pre-
I feel this claim.

It is important to keep in mind that it is not just people's money that is at risk.

While the fraudulent mirroring is active all calls, messages etc. You
they reach the criminal putting the security of the victim's contacts at risk.

In my case, the thief took the calls made to my phone number.
I myself, got to talk to him. If he just wanted to steal money, why did he take the
calls?

I also put this claim so that, if it were the case, they sanction the store
CATHOME and/or Telefónica Movistar. (...).”

Along with the claim, he provided two complaints filed with Post P. de las Ro-
of the Madrid Civil Guard Command, on February 13, 2020,
with certificate number ***ATESTADO.1 and dated February 18, 2020, with number
number of attestation ***ATESTADO.2.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/106

In the first of them, he denounces that:

”(…) a duplicate of the SIM card of the telephone ***TELÉFONO.3 no
authorized by the complainant, that the complainant about 1:00 p.m. when making a
call from your phone this does not allow you to make it.

That he begins to take steps, he gets in touch with TELEFONICA MOVIS-
TAR which inform you that you have made a duplicate card IN A STORE-
DA DE MOVISTAR located at ***ADDRESS.2 of the town of ***LOCATION.5.
That the complainant informs him that he is in Madrid and it is impossible for him to
have authorized any duplicates.

That having well-founded suspicions that this was not normal, he performs checks
deposits in your bank account of BANCO SANTANDER which is at your
name, observing several unauthorized charges in it, these being the following:
following:

They have made a purchase in the REVOLUT company worth 2,500 euros
They have made a purchase from the REVOLUT company worth 3,500 euros.

(...) that he received a message on Monday, February 3 from his bank from (...) his account manager
Santander bank asking him to contact the telephone number ***TELÉ-
FONO.4 and that on the 10th he received a call from the Bank's anti-fraud department
Santander informing him that there was an attempt to manipulate accounts from
***COUNTRY.1, who went to the bank and changed the passwords.”

In the second of them, he denounces that:

"(...) you want to expand the data of the charges suffered on your card since they have made you
filed more charges of which he was not informed the day he made the complaint.

That on February 13, 2020, when he was reviewing his accounts, he observed that they had
made some charges which you have not made or authorized in your bank account
***ACCOUNT.1 and associated card number ***ACCOUNT.2, for a value of:

REVOLUT company, 02-13-2020, worth 2,500 euros
REVOLUT Company, 02-13-2020, for a value of 5,500 euros

That same day they have carried out the same procedure in another account that has
connects with the bank ***ENTIDAD.1 associated card number ***TARJE-
TA.1, for a value of:

REVOLUT Company, 02-13-2020, for a value of 2,450 euros
REVOLUT Company, 02-13-2020, for a value of 3,500 euros”

On June 8, 2020, the claim was transferred to TME, so that it could process
give its analysis and give an answer within a month.

In response to said request, TME stated -among other arguments- the following:
following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/106

“(…) 3. Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated
the
claim.

In relation to the claimed facts, TME informs that there is a request for
change of ICC of the Claimant's SIM card on February 13, 2020 at
11:48 a.m. to 2 through one of our (...), and specifically, from the (...) ***LOCA-
LIDAD.4”.

Reviewed the case and despite the fact that TME has an adequate and well-known operation
by all our agents on how to act in the event of a request to change the tar-
SIM card and that will be detailed later, in this particular case it has been possible to
determine that (...).

That same day at 5:12 p.m., as the Complainant explains in his brief of
claim, another ICC change is requested to get your line back. This application
is done in the (...), which is attached as Annex 2. As it was transferred in the
framework of the information requirement with ref. ***REFERENCE.2 of the AEPD,
TME has an adequate procedure for changing SIM cards. (…)

Therefore and in conclusion, in this specific case in which it has been affected
only one person has been able to determine that (...).

4. Report on the measures adopted. Indicate that all brand personnel
Movistar is required to access and comply with all procedures established
two to make and deliver SIM duplicates through our (...). Therefore, it
they have made reinforcements and reminders of the operation of changes of duplicates
of SIM, as well as the publication of a communication of awareness and sensitization
information about SIM card changes. (…)”

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 24 of
September 2020, in the file with no. of reference E/03543/2020.

FOURTH: In view of the facts denounced by claimants one and two,
of the documents provided and the Internal Note agreed by the director of the
Agency, the SGID proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions
for the clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
authorization granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
them and the free circulation of these data and by which Directive 95/46/EC is repealed
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance
with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD.

Within the framework of the previous investigation actions, four requirements were made:
information services addressed to TME, on different dates:

Secure Verification Code Requirement

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

Required date
I lie

Notification date-
tion required
I lie

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/106

01/13/2020

03/06/2020

06/29/2020

09/17/2020

01/15/2020

03/09/2020

07/06/2020

09/21/2020

First

Second

Third

Fourth

CSV.1
CSV.2
CSV.3
CSV.4

In the first of the requirements, dated January 13, 2020, the following was requested:
following information:

1. Information on the channels available to customers to request a duplicate
SIM card crash. (Telephone, Internet, shops, etc.).

2. For each of the routes available, detailed information is requested
of the procedure established for the attention of the requests, including the
controls for the verification of the identity of the applicant including the data and
documents required from the applicant, as well as the details of the verifications
tions that are made on them. In case of shipment of SIM card by co-
mail, detail of the controls and requirements established on the direction of delivery
he saw.

3. Instructions given in this regard to the staff that attends the requests for
their attention. Documentation proving its dissemination among the companies
employees dedicated to said tasks, internal or external to the entity.

4. Information on whether the performance of the controls to verify the
identity is reflected, for each request attended, in the Information System
mation of the entity. Documentation that accredits it in your case, such as
screen pressure of the buttons (check-box) or other documentation according to the
method used.

5. Reasons why it has been possible in some cases to supplant the
identity of clients for the issuance of SIM duplicates. Reasons why
The implemented security measures and controls have not had an effect.

6. Actions taken by the entity when one of these cases is detected.
Information on the existence of a written procedure and a copy of it in
affirmative case. Actions taken to prevent cases of this type from occurring
produce again, specifically, changes that may have been made on the
procedure to improve security.

7. Number of cases of fraudulent duplicate SIM requests detected
two throughout the year 2019.

Total number of mobile telephony clients of the entity.

In the second of the requirements, dated March 6, 2020, the
same information cited in the previous request, dated January 13, 2020.

In the third request, dated June 29, 2020, the following information was requested:
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/106

training:

POINT 1

Clarification is requested on the following aspects in relation to the answer-
tion of our request dated March 6, 2020, within the framework of this
same file:

A). In the case of the MOVISTAR brand, it is indicated that it is only possible to request
face-to-face in store. Information is requested on whether in any exceptional case
Transact by phone or online, always talking about private clients
(residential)

In the affirmative case, a copy of the written procedure is requested where the
all cases that are processed remotely, including all sub-
positions or circumstances.

If so, a copy of the specific instructions given to the
operators with detailed information on how the operator values all the sub-
positions, including how you must assess the client's circumstances to access
der to telephone processing.

B). In the case of authorizations or representations for preliminary procedures
essential in store, information is requested on the controls that are carried out on
the copy of the identity document (of the client who authorizes or represented).
Information on whether the image of the identity document is stored
of the applicant, the authorization or accreditation of representation, and the copy of the document
customer document.

C) In home deliveries, information is requested on the express possibility
of the change of the delivery address of the SIM, both during the request for
change of SIM, as prior to the change of SIM in independent management
te, and on the controls established to make the change of this data.

D). In O2 and TUENTI Information on the controls established to process
changing a user's email address.

Implications that a change of email address can have in
the
Fraudulent request or activation of a new duplicate SIM. Information on-
See if the email address matches the user code
for apps/webapps, or if it is used during the SIM change process.

AND). For the cases of delivery of the SIM by (...), or courier companies:

The verifications that are carried out in the home delivery of the card are requested.
ta SIM for recipient identification. Copy of contracted documentation
with the courier companies that carry out the distribution, where the
identity checks or instructions in this regard to be carried out by the
splitter.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/106

POINT 2

List of 20 cases of SIM duplicates claimed as impersonation of
identity or fraudulent by customers, of the MOVISTAR brand. The list in-
will include SIM duplicates requested from January 1, 2020, that is,
all those claimed that happened from January 1, from the first,
consecutively up to 20.

It is requested to indicate in the list only:

- the date of the SIM change,
- the line number,
- request channel,
- delivery channel.

POINT 3

On cases presented before this Agency that are summarized in the table (which is
fully reproduced in this act of procedure):

It is requested:

A) Reason why the duplication of SIM was possible for each case. accredits-
tion of the controls that were passed, for each case, on the identity of the
citation in the face-to-face application in the store. Copy of identity document
submitted and controls that were passed, or result of validation with codes
go QR .

B) Reason why two consecutive SIM duplicates were possible for
This Customer. Information about the type of customer contract.

C) Actions undertaken by the entity in each case, including accreditation
documentation of the following aspects:

 If the client has been marked as a victim of fraud to avoid possible in-

future phishing attempts.

 If internal investigations have been carried out to clarify the facts with

the point of sale.

 If changes have been made in the procedure to avoid future cases if

thousands.

 If any action has been taken with the distributor or store.
 If the client has been contacted to alert him of what happened and about the re-

solution of your case.

In the fourth and last of the requirements, dated September 17, 2020, it was
requested the following information:

  1

POINT
 
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/106

On the list of 20 cases of SIM duplicates denounced/claimed (which
is fully reproduced in this act of procedure):

A. In the cases of application and face-to-face delivery, a copy of the DNIs or documents is requested.
identification elements provided by the SIM change applicants.

B. For cases of telephone request:

 Copy of the recording of the conversation where the applicant exceeds the policy

of security.

 Detail of the circumstances that concurred to access the procedure-

tion of the telephone request.

C. General information on the casuistry of “misappropriation of the SIM”:


Specific information on whether the SIMs were stolen from a point of sale or
How did this misappropriation occur?



Information on whether it is possible to acquire SIMs without associating them to any line or
client. Causes for which a customer is allowed to take a product from a store
SIM not activated and not associated with a specific line, and is allowed later.
mind activate said SIM by telephone and associate it with a line.

Information if this possibility exists, without SIM swapping fraud, consistent
in the activation of a SIM that is in the possession of a client, without having been
previously associated in the entity's systems to a line owned by it.
dad.

 Causes for which it is allowed in the procedure to activate a telephone
Any SIM for a given line. (Case of possible stolen SIMs
in a store, found unassociated with any customer or line).

 Security policy that is passed to the applicant in the collection of the SIM when

it is not associated with a line or client during its collection.

FIFTH: On March 10, 2020, TME requests an extension of the term before
the impossibility of gathering and structuring the required information within the established period
do.

On March 12, 2020, the Deputy Director General for Data Inspection
agrees to extend the term to respond for a period of five days, from
the day following the day on which the first term granted expires.

SIXTH: In response to the four requests formulated, TME provides the following
information, which was analyzed by this Agency:

1.- Information on the channels available to customers to request a duplicate
of SIM card:

Movistar brand customers

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/106

(...).

2.- Detailed information on the procedure:

(...):

MOVISTAR Brand:
(...).

O2 BRAND

(...).

TUENTI BRAND

(...).

3.- Instructions given in this regard to the personnel who attend to the requests:

              (...).

4.- Information on whether the performance of the controls is reflected:

Movistar brand.

(...).

O2 brand.
(...).

Tuenti brand.
(...).

5.- Reasons why identity theft has been possible in some cases.
number of clients:

      (...).

6.- Actions taken by the entity when one of these cases is detected:

The representatives of the entity have stated that they will develop the following actions:
nes about it:

(...).

7- Number of cases of fraudulent requests for duplicate SIMs detected during
throughout the year 2019.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/106

(...).

The total number of clients of the Movistar, Tuenti and O2 brands at the end of January
2020 was 8,142,352 customers.

Regarding the information requested regarding the additional cases not presented
before this Agency, states the following:

(...).

for the SIMs requested as collected in person at the store, the representatives
Many of MSDs manifest:

(...).

Recording of the conversation is required for telephone cases, in which the
applicant exceeds the security policy, they do not provide them, stating the representatives
representatives of the entity the following:
(...).

TME has been asked for details of the circumstances that concurred to access
right to the processing of the telephone request, not responding the representatives
of the entity why it was processed by telephone, indicating that in 5 of the cases:
(...).

TME has been asked for information on whether it is possible to acquire SIM cards without
associate them to any line or client as well as the reasons why they are allowed
that a customer takes from a store a SIM without activating and not associated with a line
determined, and it is later allowed to activate said SIM by telephone and associ-
tie to a line The representatives of the entity have replied by providing the following
following information:

(...).

Regarding the information requested regarding the cases presented before this Agency,
company, stated the following:

 File E/00560/2020:

The first duplicate, of the line ***TELÉFONO.2, was never carried out when
complete, since the distributor did not deliver the SIM card to the supplant-
pain The commercial agent who attended the request detected that the documentation
provided by the impersonator did not pass the (...) and the SIM card that was used
to make the continuous duplicate in the dealer's shop. They provide photography
of the SIM card, indicating that its ICC number (XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX)
matches the one assigned to the line. They provide screen printing with the ICC
assigned.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/106

According to statements made by TME representatives in the second case (during
line ***TELEPHONE.1), the duplication was possible due to the concurrence
ence of the following circumstances:

(...).

About the reason why two consecutive SIM duplicates were possible
for this client. Information on the type of contract of the client, the represen-
many of the entity have stated that

            (...).

Subsequently, the case is referred to (...), who investigates the assumption to clarify
rar what happened and transfer the conclusions of his study to (...).

In this case, these measures were not implemented because (...).

TME representatives indicate that in case (...). Research studies
The Fraud Prevention program helps us to define new models or scenarios.
fraud, in order to strengthen our operations and better in a cons-
both the security measures implemented and the identification processes of
customers.

(...).

They indicate regarding the internal investigations to clarify the facts that
when there has been evidence of the case, it has been consulted internally in all
two TME systems the different actions on customer lines
to clarify what happened.

Likewise, the usual territorial interlocutors have been contacted to
put them on notice, gather more information and reinforce operations with the
stores involved.

As for carrying out any action with the distributor or store, ma-
They state in general that with the entire network of stores they have carried out
various reinforcements on (...), as well as of (...). When they are aware of
some case of SIM SWAPING (...).

In relation to the changes made in the procedure to avoid cases
future, indicate that (...).

Finally, answering the question of whether they have contacted the client, they indicate
what, (...).

 File E/03543/2020:

They do not provide ID or SIM change request document. They represent-
TME officials have stated that, after reviewing the case and despite the fact that TME has
with an adequate operation and known by all the agents on how to act
act before a request to change the SIM card, in this particular case it is
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

15/106

has been able to determine that (...).

On the same day, the claimant requests another change of ICC to recover their limit.
na.

This request is made in (...), and in this case the TME operation was followed
(...), which are attached.

They indicate that all the staff of the Movistar brand (...).

SEVENTH: D.D.D. (hereinafter, the three complaining party), on October 23,
2020, files a claim with the AEPD against TME, for the following
reasons:

“On 09/25/2020 at 2:40 p.m. I receive an email from Movistar telling me
that my Movistar Cloud service had been terminated, so I responded to the
14:53 saying that I had not canceled anything and that it was a mistake or an unauthorized use-
twisted (…)

On 09/25/2020 at 2:58 p.m. I call Movistar 1004 to try to clarify the cancellation,
but as usual I can not contact anyone and the call is cut. Gave-
This call lasted 4 minutes 17 seconds and all this data was recorded on my mobile.

That same day and in the afternoon I noticed strange things on my mobile, I had a message
that "the mobile was lost" and after 8:00 p.m. it no longer had a signal and could not
make or receive calls. I literally panicked as I strongly suspected
I state that my mobile had been hijacked (hacked) or similar. helped by me
wife with her cell phone (which is not from Movistar) and the landline we started a series of calls
distressing calls to my banking entities to block everything. in parallel and
from the landline I called XXXX and although it took me several minutes I managed to explain what
It was happening and I desperately requested that they cancel my mobile number before the confirmation
Banco Santander that my account had already been robbed and they had charged me
fraudulent credit card transactions. My surprise and outrage was indescribable.
ble when they told me that they couldn't do anything since that number, mine ***TE-
LEPHONE.5 (and all the rest of the contract) were in someone else's name.

When I managed to block all the bank accounts, I called Movistar again and
They also told me that they couldn't do anything and that in order to clarify what had happened and
to get my signal back (deactivate the impostor's SIM and activate mine) I would have to go to
a Movistar store. (…)

At 10:00 a.m. on 09/26/2020 I went to the Movistar de las Rozas store near
cana to my home and although they knew me perfectly as a regular customer
They said they couldn't do anything since my mobile (and other services) were
someone else's name and they provided me with a document as proof.

They sent me to the Telefónica central in Gran Vía to unblock the situation
(…)

I was in the Gran Vía premises from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. approximately.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/106

and I provided the aforementioned fraudulent document, my monthly receipts
of Telefónica Movistar in pdf on a USB key from 1998, as well as a copy on paper
pel of the last receipt from Movistar. Given the evidence of tests, Movistar decided
cancel the fraudulent SIM and activated mine.

The conclusion of Movistar itself was very clear: the impostor fraudulently changed
mind the contract in your name (possibly by telephone according to Movistar although
unconfirmed) and then went to a Movistar store where he asked for a duplicate of the
SIM. He did not find problems since in the store's computer it was in his name.
opened and later canceled the other one, mine, and it already entered my bank accounts. The
The procedure was relatively simple: he entered my account with my ID (possibly
mind got it from my contract) pressed "lost or forgotten password" and in those
cases the bank sends SMS with security codes that once entered with
They correctly give access to passwords, etc. (…)

Conclusion: Movistar changed my Movistar Fusión contract (fixed, mobile and television)
in the name of another person (...) without protecting my data, which also gave rise to
a scam of XXXXX euros.”

Along with the claim, provide the email received on September 25
of 2020 and the response; copy of the repair order dated 09/26/2020; and two
complaints filed before the P. de las Rozas Post of the Guard Command.
Civil Day of Madrid, on September 28, 2020, with certificate number XXX-
XXXXXXXX and on October 2, 2020, with certificate number XXXXXXXXX-
XXX.

In the first of them, he denounces that:

“A total of three charges have been made on the due card, subtracting
a total of XXXX euros.

A total of six charges have been made to the debit card, subtracting a total
of XXXX euros.

They have also made a transfer to him through BIZUM of 500 euros, destined for
swam to a certain E.E.E. with telephone number ***TELÉFONO.6 and a bank recharge-
ria of XXXX euros.

All this makes a total of XXXX euros.

The complainant states the possible modus operandi of the author: That through a
of a change of name of the holder in his contract, for the line belonging to the number
number ***TELEPHONE.5, with MOVISTAR by telephone, without your consent, the
The possible author made the change, requesting a SIM card from said company. nullifying
the complainant's SIM card.

That after obtaining said SIM card, the author made the bank transactions through
through a mobile phone, because after carrying out any operation with the entity
banking entity, you need the approval via SMS of the telephone number that makes the
operation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/106

After this, the possible author got into the application of the Santan-
der and through I HAVE FORGOTTEN MY PASSWORD, said bank sends SMS to
phone number associated with the bank account.

That the change of holder of the MOVISTAR account, the complainant provides data
of the possible author: F.F.F. ***NIE.1.

It also provides a bank transfer of XXXX euros that was cancelled, which was
addressed to a certain G.G.G.(…).

That the complainant provides the fraudulent MOVISTAR contract with the name and
surnames of the alleged perpetrator, copy of the last invoice of the legal contract of the denouncer,
customer, details of the aborted transfer and the charges made.”

In the second of them, he denounces that:

“(…) That on Thursday 10-01-2020 the complainant appeared at his office in the
Banco Sabadell located in (...) to recover the passwords previously blocked for
be able to operate.

That Banco Sabadell reported that unfortunately a transfer had been issued
fraudulent payment amounting to 7,003.00 euros in the name of H.H.H. to the account
ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 of the banking entity ING reason for which
is forced to report the facts in order to recover the amount defrauded.

The complainant expresses the possible modus operandi of the author”, where he reproduces the
same manifestations reported in the previous complaint.

On November 25, 2020, the claim was transferred to TME, so that
proceed to its analysis and respond within a month.

In response to said request, TME stated -among other arguments- the following:
following:

“(…) 3. Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated
the claim.

Mr. D.D.D. In the document filed with this Agency, he indicates that he is a client of the
Movistar commercial brand with which it has contracted three lines, one fixed and
two mobile lines that are ***PHONE.6, ***PHONE.5, ***PHONE.7.

Likewise, he indicates that on September 25, 2020, he noticed that his line
***PHONE.5 was without service, after this, he contacted our service
customer service at number 1004, where they told him that all his lines
They were in someone else's name.

Subsequently, on September 26, 2020, the client appeared at a
of our physical stores, where they explained that it was possible that a third party
person would have changed the ownership of their lines requesting in turn a duplicate

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/106

cation of your SIM card for mobile lines.

In this sense, we have to say that, in this specific case, on September 25,
In 2020 there was a change of ownership in the three lines mentioned above.
subsequently through (...); that same day, the impersonator requests a duplicate tar-
SIM card for mobile lines, but it only makes the change in the line effective
***PHONE.5.

Regarding the cause that has produced the claim, we must indicate that
(...).

In this regard, we inform you that Telefónica has a conventional procedure
solid and adequate verification of the identity of our clients that covers
of sufficient guarantees to identify the applicant for the change of ownership before
to proceed with its processing. In this verification procedure
identity are requested, in addition to (...).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, Telefónica works continuously to improve the measures
available in order to avoid identity theft in the
different contracting processes and subsequent procedures requested by the holders
of the services through the different channels available to it. Thus,
the different processes have been reinforced, which we will detail in the following point.

In relation to the events described, this company reports that the events de-
announced have already been treated and resolved prior to the entry of the
complaint to the Data Protection Agency.

Regarding the actions carried out by Telefónica in the resolution of the
claim raised, we confirm that:

 As of the date of this writing, the lines are regularized in the name of the
original owner, today claimant, Mr. D.D.D.
 The affected line ***TELÉFONO.5, has a new SIM card associated with
correctly assigned to the owner of the line.
 Our Fraud prevention team has contacted the owner to
inform you about the change of SIM card of the line ***PHONE.7 that re-
It is necessary to carry out to regularize it as well.

4. Report on the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring
Similar.

During 2020, the following specific measures have been implemented that
affect channel operations:

(...).

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 25 of
January 2021, in the file with no. of reference E/09638/2020.

EIGHTH: On August 27, 2020, information was obtained from the Commission

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/106

National Markets and Competition on mobile voice lines
by type of contract and by segment, the results being:

OPERATOR

PREPAID

Movistar

Residential
1,215,667

Business

0

POSTPAID

Residential
10,048,727

Business
5,102,197

NINTH: On January 27, 2021, commercial information is obtained on the
sales volume of TME during the year 2019 being the results of
4,340,283,000.00 euros. The share capital amounts to 209,404,687.00 euros.

TENTH: On February 11, 2021, the director of the AEPD agrees to initiate a
sanctioning procedure against TME, in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and
64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), for alleged infringement of article
5.1.f) and 5.2 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD and in article 72.1.a) of
the LOPDGDD as very serious, and may be sanctioned with an administrative fine
of 2,000,000.00 euros (two million euros), without prejudice to what may result from
The instruction.

On February 15, 2021, through the Electronic Notification Service and
Electronic Address Enabled, the Initiation Agreement is notified.

ELEVEN: On February 17, 2021, TME requests the extension of the term
to adduce allegations and provide documents or other evidence, and the referral
sion of file PS/00021/2021 and the rest of the referenced files.

TWELFTH: On February 17, 2021, the instructor of the procedure
agrees to the requested extension of the term up to a maximum of five days and dated 23
February 2021, the referral of the copy of the file, in accordance with the provisions
to in articles 32.1 and 53.1 a) of the LPACAP.

    THIRD
 

TENTH
 : On February 22, 2021, TME communicates the modification
 
of the postal address for the referral of sanctioning file PS/00021/2021 and
of the rest of the referenced files.

    FOURTH
 

TENTH
 : On February 22, 2021, TME is notified of the Agreement of
 
extension of the term and dated February 25, 2021, the remission of the copy of the ex-
pending.

 

    FIFTH

TENTH
 : Dated March 8, 2021, it is received in this Agency, in
 
time and form, written by the representative of TME, by which it is proceeded to formulate
allegations and in which, after expressing what is appropriate to his right, he requests:

"Yo. The present procedure is suspended and the claimants are required to
that they provide the status of the complaints filed, as well as the con-
had of the criminal procedures that in his case are under way,
in order to determine if there is criminal prejudiciality.

ii. Subsidiarily and in the event that the request for suspension is not accepted

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/106

sion, declare the non-existence of responsibility on the part of TME for the pressures
alleged infractions imputed to him in this procedure, ordering the ar-
subject of this sanctioning file.

iii. Lastly, in the event that none of the previous claims are upheld,
subsequent, that the sanction initially proposed by virtue of art. 83 of the
GDPR.”

In summary, in the pleadings he stated that:

PREVIOUS: ON THE INITIATION OF THE PUNISHING PROCEEDINGS.

Considers that the sanction is disproportionate in relation to the facts
affected, which violates the principle of good faith and legitimate expectations that
must govern the activity and the exercise of the functions of any public entity.
ca, as stipulated in article 3.1.e) of Law 40/2015.

On January 20, 2020, the AEPD convened a working group (GT) with different
operators, as well as with other representatives, with the aim of "analyzing
the problems of the duplication of SIM cards and study ways and procedures
measures to prevent their occurrence”, convening the first meeting on 4
December 2020.

However, the AEPD decides to initiate a disciplinary proceeding with a pro-
unprecedented sanction.

In addition, the type of offender that had been habitually charging in the cases changes.
those in which, breaking the technical and organizational measures established
given by TME, the fraudsters managed to supplant the identity of the
clients with different purposes (art. 6.1, lack of legitimacy in the treatment
of the data of the interested parties), and that it was the reproach that in any case had
revealed so far in relation to SIM Swapping, but
that, in addition, imputes to TME the responsibility of the result of the fraud carried out
zed by a third party, that is, the result of the theft of money from the accounts
bank accounts of said clients, as well as the social alarm caused by this type
of practices.
I. ABOUT THE FACTS GIVING RISE TO THE INITIATION.

Question of penal prejudiciality.

The three complaining parties filed complaints with the Bodies
and State Security Forces in relation to the same facts that were
are dealing with in this proceeding. It is essential to verify if the
complaints have advanced reaching the headquarters of judicial investigation, which supposes
It would be possible to continue the administrative process until the final result is known.
end of criminal proceedings, as established in art. 77.4 of the LPACAP.

FIRST. Of the customer identification operations:

The security measures are the result of a thorough and continuous process.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/106

so of study that encompasses multiple disciplines and areas of knowledge (among
others, legal advice, security, fraud prevention) that has been taken
carried out from the outset with all the guarantees and with the maximum respect.
protection and observance of the principles of article 5 of the RGPD.

The central axis of these security measures is constituted by the
 
applicable depending on the type of management requested by the client.

 (…)
 

    that
 

1.1.- The technical and organizational measures implemented are appropriate
based on the characteristics of each of the types
management affected by fraud:

The steps used by impersonators to perpetrate fraud
There are basically two types of SIM Swapping requests: duplicate requests
SIM card and requests for change of ownership.

 
1.1.1.- Guarantees of the duplicate request procedure
of SIM card (...):

(...).

1.1.2.- Guarantees that cover the procedure of change of owner in the
(...):

(...).

1.2.- The technical and organizational measures implemented are reviewed and
continuously updated in accordance with the principle of privacy
from layout and default:

 Measures adopted in the short term

(...).

 Measures adopted in the long term

 During 2020 TME has worked on the development (…).

 Additionally and for the year 2021 (…).

1.3.- Clarifications on the operation of Card duplicates:

 

 

 

 

It's not true that:

(...).

SECOND. The circumstances that have made it possible to overcome

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/106

third parties of the implemented security policies and the conse- quence
account impersonation of identity of claimants one, two and three su-
pertain to TME's sphere of responsibility.

 (…)
The commercial agents of
  have been deceived and induced to commit
 
 
 
 
human errors when applying the identification operation designed and
required by TME.

2.1.- Non-compliance with the operation by the employees of
distributors and other suppliers:

They provide the contracts signed by THADER, CATPHONE and (...

2.2.- Of the due diligence shown by TME when complying
plir the Identification operation:

Demonstrated at all times, further increasing its efforts from
that is aware of the existence of this type of fraud. insist on the
large amount of (...) in the sense of sending the details of the operation of
identification to all channels.

He has developed numerous actions of (...). In this sense, in order to
reinforce compliance with the operation designed by Movistar, the protocol in-
includes (...) and of (...).

2.3.- Of the continuous innovation of fraud techniques and the sophistication-
tion of the supplanters at the time of perpetrating and evolving this type
of fraud:

It should be borne in mind that these commercials face the (...), it is worth
of them to process a particular management in accordance with the established procedures.
established for this in TME.

2.4.- Of the concurrence of other banking operations not known by
TME necessary to perpetrate bank fraud:

The obligations of authentication and access of third parties imposed by the Di-
Directive PSD2 are not applicable to TME and, furthermore, they did not come into force.
gor until September 14, 2019. Consequently, TME is not responsible
saber of phishing results.

THIRD. The implemented security measures have been demonstrated
adequate, timely and effective in response to the volume of contracting
and the obligations imposed by the applicable sector regulations for
ensure the connectivity of its clients quickly and sustainably in
time.

3.1.- Adequacy, timeliness and effectiveness of security measures
implanted by TME:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/106

The AEPD has only identified three cases of bank fraud (parts relating to
crying one, two and three).

Fraudulent applications identified by TME are minimal and complete.
exceptional if we compare them with the volume of operations of
this type managed by TME.

 Percentage of fraudulent requests detected in card duplicates:

It is X,XXXX%. The imposition of restrictions would imply a rigidity and
an excessive load that could ultimately put at risk:

 Customer connectivity quickly and sustainably
over time in accordance with the sectoral regulations that impose
operators a standard of quality and level of service demanded
tes in order to ensure connectivity.

 Compliance with other principles enshrined in the GDPR,
as the data minimization principle.

 

On the other hand, the overall percentage of fraudulent applications from
that impersonators use to commit bank fraud (...).

3.2.- Effectiveness of certain processes indicated by the agency:
 

3.2.1.- The effectiveness of the "victim of fraud" check

There is no such procedure as such.

• Restriction for theft:

Consisting of (…).

• Actions carried out by the fraud department:

Possible fraud detected, (...).

 

3.2.2.- The effectiveness of the (…).

There is no (...).

3.2.3.- The effectiveness (...)

Among its obligations as a service provider
of electronic communications includes the need to earn
guarantee accessibility to its customer service.

The (...) responds to the set of exposed obligations and, in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/106

attention to these, considers that it is not possible to doubt their
effectiveness.

II. ON THE FOUNDATIONS OF LAW.

 

FIRST. Regarding the alleged infractions committed by TME:
violation of the principle of typicity.

1.1.- Regarding the conduct of TME: in no case could it be considered
subsumable in any of the precepts that are considered violated

The conduct carried out is not subsumable in any of the precepts whose in-
fraction is imputed, for this it would be necessary that:

- Appropriate technical and organizational measures were not applied
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk.

 In general, “adequate security” was not guaranteed in the treatment of
lying of personal data.

 Not being able to demonstrate all of the above.

 Regarding the alleged infringement of articles 5.1 f) and 32 of the RGPD:

TME has appropriate technical and organizational measures
you give:

 Result of a thorough and continuous process of study
that encompasses multiple disciplines and areas of knowledge
legal advice, security, fraud prevention) that are reviewed
and update when necessary.

 In relation to the risk assessment, it should be taken into account
Note that the issuance of a duplicate card may result in
necessary for a client to continue enjoying their service
mobile communications in accordance with article 47 of the Law
9/2014, of May 9 (LGTEL) and Royal Decree 899/2009, of
May 22nd.

 Regarding the alleged infringement of article 5.2 RGPD:

The standard requires demonstrating compliance with the implementation of
appropriate security measures, not its infallibility. infallibility that
it does seem to be demanding from TME, considering only the result
occurred in the case of three claimants, and thus assuming
the existence of strict liability.

 About the alleged infringement of article 25 RGPD:

TME is being accused of violating an article that protects the
privacy in a double aspect: privacy from the design and by de-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/106

effect, without even referring to its full scope in the Initial Agreement.
cio.

 On the definition of the alleged conduct in other sanctioning procedures
tion proceedings filed against TME and Telefónica de España, S.A.U.

The Agency's action is arbitrary because in other files
administrative tests the classification of the conduct has been different (PS/
00114/2019; PS/00453/2019; PS/00235/2020). In all of them
defined the conduct as contrary to article 6.1 RGPD.

With this procedure, the AEPD promotes a proscribed legal uncertainty
and hinders an adequate defense of MSDs, consequently violating
cia the provisions of article 9.3 CE.

1.2.- On the wording of the regulations that are applicable: con-
indeterminate legal concepts that contribute to increasing the uncertainty
legal security and defenselessness of TME:

It invokes several sentences: STS of June 26, 2001 (RJ 2001, 5740); STC
104/2009, of May 4 (RTC 2009, 104); and the STC 145/2013 of July 11
(RTC 2013\145).

The Agency collaborates with this indeterminacy of concepts by referring to
reference to a supposed “principle of data security” of now new form.
emulation on several occasions mentioned, but not included in the RGPD.

1.3.- Subsidiarily: on the interpretation and application of the regulation-
tive made by the agency. Risk of violation of the principle “non
bin in idem” and specialty:

The (...) requires priority in the application of the specific precept on the ge-
general. Therefore, neither Article 5.1 f) nor Article 5.1 f) would be applicable in this case.
5.2 of the RGPD, whose wording is generic and the application of the article proceeds
32 of the GDPR. This specialty is also included in the LO-
PDGDD, which in its article 73 f), unlike article 72.1 a), provides as
serious infraction "f) The (...) that are appropriate to guarantee a level
of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment, in the terms required by
(…)”.

SECOND. TME's conduct is not unlawful.

TME's customer identification operations include technical measures
and organizational measures designed to ensure adequate security of data
personal data of its clients, including protection against unauthorized treatment
authorized or illegal. The rule (…).

The security measures implemented by TME have been demonstrated (...) by
volume of contracting and other procedures, and (...).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/106

In relation to the (...), said contracts respond to the commercial reality and
include all those forecasts that are necessary in order to gain
guarantee its compliance.

THIRD. Absence of guilt.

There is no subjective element of guilt required for the imposition of sanctions.
administrative tions.

TME reveals an unequivocal will to proceed according to Law without
exist in any way intentionality to infringe the norm and having in all
case willingness to comply.

It invokes the STS of December 16, 2015. The conducts in no case are
attributable to TME.

3.1.- The diligent action, in good faith and legitimate expectations of TME:

It has acted with all due diligence when implementing measures
technical and organizational measures (according to the state of the art, the costs of
application, and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment,
the probability and severity of the risks) that are appropriate to gain
ensure adequate security.

As a telecommunications operator and provider of communications services
electronic tions has the obligation to provide said services in a
continuously and in compliance with the obligations derived from the regulations that
application release.

Invokes the follow-up of the "Ex officio inspection plan on contracting
distance in telecommunications operators and energy marketers
gía” and participation in the GT.

He claims to have acted in accordance with the principle of legitimate expectations and invokes the
STS no. 64/2017 of May 22.

3.2.- Exceptional circumstances and beyond TME:

 Failure to comply with the operations established by TME: responsibility
of employees of distributors and suppliers

The AEPD is demanding a (...) simply based on the result
ted, without taking into account that (...) of the distributors, which in his case
they would be breaching the operations. Invokes the STS 1468/2017 of 28
September.

 Possible negligence in the care of personal data by the
users:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/106

TME informs its clients within the framework of their contractual relationship,
Next:

Conditions of Movistar Internet: “Use and custody. The CLIENT
undertakes to make a (…)”.

Specific conditions of the Mi Movistar mobile application: “2.7. Mo-
Vistar will not be held responsible for the loss, theft and/or unauthorized use
authorized by third parties of your credentials or the SIM card of your line(s).
nea/s linked/s, so (...). The same way, (…). Movistar not
is responsible for the use that third parties may make of Mi Movistar
on your device”.

It invokes three Judgments: from the Provincial Court (AP) of Seville, from
May 26, 2014; of the AP of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, of 20
December 2012; and from the AP of Valladolid on March 10.

 Probable liability of third parties unrelated to TME, such as entities
banking:

Corresponds to the bank (or other providers of the applications
mentioned), (...), to establish the measures that correspond to
ponder, in accordance with the provisions of the regulations resulting from
application to banking entities; and decide on the suitability of
use certain mechanisms to authorize and finalize the transaction.
bank transfer (in this case the SMS).

It refers to the SAP of Alicante no. 107/2018, of March 12 (AC
2018\818).

 Intentional actions of third parties to commit a crime

As the Agency itself indicates, these are "fraudulent practices"
carried out by third parties, of which TME is one more victim.

On the other hand, we must also refer at this point to the en-
previous win by the impersonator to TME commercials
to carry out certain tasks.

It could even be considered that we are faced with a supposed
of force majeure, due to the circumstances described in said
concept, which determines the lack of responsibility or guilt
in the offending behavior.

We are faced with the responsibility of the employees of the dis-
TME contributors and suppliers that have failed to comply with the operations
established, despite the more than evident and proven diligence
TME within the framework of said contractual relationship.

Identity theft can be caused by many factors
outside the will and ability to act of TME, such as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/106

that:

 

i).- There are third parties who have the will to commit a crime, action
which is inevitable for Telefónica.

ii).- The data that allows identity theft is not ob-
had MSDs. Impersonators must have in their possession
other data (specifically the banks with which these persons operate)
sonas and online banking access credentials) since the
access to SMS messages alone does not allow execution
of banking operations.

iii).- The banking entities are responsible for determining
the necessary security measures to guarantee the consent
ment of the account holder before any banking operation, and
proof of your identity.

Therefore, it is of extraordinary interest to reiterate that there is no link
causal by action or omission, between TME and the final result, due to the
intervention of third parties with sufficient entity to alter it.

FOURTH. Failure to comply with the principle of proportionality.

In the hypothetical case that the AEPD, lacking adequate legal support and
with the sole purpose of imposing a fine, considers suitable and indispen-
able to financially sanction TME, the amount of such sanction must
be estimated according in all cases to the principle of proportionality.

Invokes the STS of June 2, 2003 and Considering 4, 129 and 148 and ar-
article 83 of the RGPD.

The economic sanction that would correspond is totally ineffective and wasteful.
provided. Nope
  consideration the provisions of the articles
  have been had in
 
83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD.

4.1.- Of the appreciated aggravating factors:

1. Seriousness of the offense

It refers to the Judgment of the National High Court (SAN) 00496/2017,
in which the evaluation of the
conduct as serious by the SESIAD, to the extent that it does not
non-compliance was found to be widespread.

In
  Consequently, it cannot be considered
 
fraction is serious.

  that the nature of the

2. Duration of the events.

The duration of the allegedly irregular treatment could not exceed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/106

der of the moment when SIM card duplication was perfected
of the three claimants.

It is surprising that the Agency appreciates the aggravation of lasting
tion, understanding that the facts cover a period of more than a year, and
At the same time, the lack of continuity is considered as a mitigating factor.
number of the infraction.

3. Number of stakeholders affected

Lack of due congruence in relation between the illegal act committed and the
proposed sanction -only 3 cases-.

4. Level of damages suffered

In no way can TME be attributed responsibility for the ma-
materialization of bank fraud, since your responsibility ends
with the result of the duplicate card, but is not responsible for
the customer identification policies established by the entities
banking.

The assessment of the aggravating circumstance contemplated in article 83.2.a) does not
can be based on the perpetration of this type of crime.

5. Intent or negligence

The
  events that occurred with the three claimants cannot be considered
 
 -
considered as a representative sample of the level of commitment
demonstrated by TME and, much less, of the degree of efficacy reviewed
have security policies that are designed to cater to
a volume of customers that exceeds 8 million.

6. Responsibility of the person in charge

It seems that the AEPD mixes in its argument the banking entities
disputes with distributors.

7. Category of personal data affected

TME processes only identification data (Name, surnames, DNI).

In this sense, it is evident that the category of data affected
by fraud, not only do they not fall into the category of sensitive data re-
caught in art. 9 of the RGPD, if not that the AEPD itself classifies them
as "low risk data", according to the category of personal data.
made in section 6.2.3 of the “Guide for the management and notification
tion of security breaches.

4.2.- Of the appraised mitigating factors:
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/106

 

The Agency has not taken into account certain circumstances that result
 
in the application of said mitigating factors. On the other hand, you forgot to include in
that list of mitigating factors, others that also apply and that are fundamental
mental.

In relation to the circumstances not taken into account:

In relation to article 83.2.c) RGPD. Measures taken by the res-
responsible for mitigating the damages suffered by the interested parties.
two: the AEPD does not refer to (...).

In relation to article 83.2.f) RGPD. Degree of cooperation with the
control authority: the AEPD does not refer to the collaboration
carried out by this party within the WG.

In relation to article 76.2.a) LOPDGDD. The continuing character of
infringement: the AEPD does not take into account the tiny percentage that
n the cases of fraudulent SIM duplication requests in relation to
with the volume of transactions managed by TME, which barely exceeds
0%.

This party understands that the mitigating factor contemplated in article 76.2.d) re-
It is decisive for the purposes of assessing a possible economic sanction.
The identity thefts produced in the cases of the three claims
maintenance would not have been possible if the supplanter had not performed
a previous illegitimate capture of the personal data of said clients.
(The underlining, italics and bold are from TME).

These allegations have already been answered in the Proposed Resolution and are reiterated,
in part, in the FD of this Resolution.

SIXTEENTH: After the period of arguments granted in the Agreement of
initiation and presented allegations, dated May 4, 2021, by the instructor
of the procedure, it is agreed to open a trial period in the following
terms:

"1.
The international claims are considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes.
put by A.A.A., C.C.C., D.D.D. and its documentation. Also the documents
documents obtained and generated by the Inspection Services before TELEPHONE
NICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U, and the Report on previous actions of the
Subdirectorate General for Inspection of Data that are part of the file
you E/11418/2019.

two.
Likewise, they are considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations
tions to the initiation agreement PS/00021/2021 presented by TELEFÓNICA MÓ-
VILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U, on March 8, 2021 through the Registry
General of this Agency, and the documentation that accompanies them:

(...).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/106

3. Practice with today's date, a requirement to: A.A.A., C.C.C. and D.D.D., to
in order to provide within 10 business days, information on the course of the
of the complaints filed for these events, as well as information on
the criminal proceedings that are pending in his case.”

SEVENTEENTH
 

 : In response to this last request:

On May 25, 2021, the claimant one provides a certificate from the Court
of Instruction 2 of ***LOCALIDAD.3, in which the Proceedings procedure is followed
Previous No. XXXXX for fraud, in which she appears in a damaged condition.

On May 7, 2021, the claimant two states that they are not aware of
ment of any data about the possible investigations that may have been given to
from the complaint filed.

On May 21, 2021, claimant three states that on the past 11
February 2021, declared in the Court of 1st Instance and Instruction No. 01 of Maja-
dahonda in the procedure of Preliminary Proceedings XXXXX in his condition of prejudice
accused/offended, in which he appears as investigated F.F.F. He adds that he expanded the complaint
Initial evidence presented to the Civil Guard on September 28, 2020. Provides
an mp3 file, provided by the Municipal Office of Consumers, which includes
the recording of the change of ownership of the service in favor of the latter.

EIGHTEENTH: On July 21, 2021, the Investigating Court is requested to
tion no. 2 of ***LOCALIDAD.3, by email, information on the procedure
Preliminary Proceedings No. XXXXX, and on the criteria of the respective judicial body.
to the concurrence of identity of subject, fact and basis between the presumed in-
administrative fraction and the criminal infraction that could correspond, to proceed,
where appropriate, to the immediate suspension of the procedure initiated, by virtue of the
ceptuated in article 22 of the LPACAP.

NINETEENTH
 : On July 28, 2021, an email is received from the
 
Court of Instruction no. 2 of ***LOCALIDAD.3, in which the judge reports the following-
following:

“Regarding the requested petition, I inform you that the complaint filed by
Mr. A.A.A. was not filed against the company (sic) TELEFONICA MOVI-
LES ESPAÑA SAU despite the fact that in the complaint it was reported that a duplicate was made
of your card (sic) SIM no. ***PHONE.2 and he had not requested it. In
this sense and in response to the request there is, for this reason, no identity
of subjects that leads to the suspension of the procedure.”

TWENTIETH: On September 16, 2021, the instructor of the formal procedure
mula Proposal for a Resolution, in which it proposes that the director of the AEPD
sanction TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with CIF A78923125, for in-
fraction of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and in the
Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, with an administrative fine of 1,000,000'00 (one mi-
million euros).

On September 20, 2021, through the Electronic Notification Service
cas and Enabled Electronic Address, the Resolution Proposal is notified.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/106

TWENTY-FIRST: On September 22, 2021, TME requests the extension
nation of the term to formulate allegations to the Resolution Proposal.

TWENTY-SECOND: On September 23, 2021, the Agency grants the
requested expansion.

TWENTY-THIRD: On October 11, 2021, TME makes allegations to
the Resolution Proposal in which it is reiterated in each and every one of the allegations-
tions made to the Initiation Agreement (antecedent FIFTEENTH) and adds others:

PREVIOUS: ON THE INITIATION OF THE PUNISHING PROCEEDINGS.

The AEPD was carrying out an independent investigation which, at least
us the Operators that participated in the GT, and specifically, TME, were not
was up to date.

Indeed, the applicable regulations establish that the supervisory authority
will have a series of powers, for which purposes it grants up to 22 types of
functions and up to 10 corrective powers, but all of them must be exercised si-
following the principles of the legal system, and in that sense, the claim
sion to be using any of those other tools provided for in the law,
when in reality what he was doing was investigating to settle the responsibility
operators and penalize them with unprecedented economic fines.
can not be interpreted in any other way than as a lack of transparency.
cy and discretion.

The accusations made by the AEPD turn TME into a sort of co-
operator necessary for the achievement of this type of fraud, when in
reality is another victim of fraudsters.

The guarantee of a zero fraud result is not required in view of the
principles established in the RGPD, nor of the corresponding obligations
to the Data Controller.

I. ABOUT THE FACTS GIVING RISE TO THE INITIATION.

It was requested that the procedure be suspended and the AEPD has limited itself to
indicate that such procedures are not directed against TME, referring to
that there is no identity of the subject to dismiss the allegation of prejudicial
criminality.

It has ignored the content of the investigations that have been carried out
now, which is relevant to determine if what was being treated in
criminal proceedings are similar or important issues for
this procedure, in such a way that it could not continue until knowing the
final outcome of the criminal proceeding.

It invokes Judgments no. 2249/2016 and no. 1907/2017 of the Chamber of the
Tencioso-Administrativo of the Supreme Court dated October 18,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/106

2016 and December 5, 2017, respectively and argues that there is prejudice
criminal jurisdiction when "the decision to be issued in the criminal process conditions
the judgment of the contentious-administrative appeal, so that
the latter can be pronounced without knowing the result of the former", which is precisely
exactly what could happen in this case as both procedures are one
extension of each other.

And, although there is no identity of subjects, the results of the actions of in-
investigation of criminal proceedings directly affect the procedure
sanctioning, not only to determine what really happened at the time of co-
to get involved in fraud, but also in the event that it was finally imposed
a penalty, determine the appropriate amount.

For this reason, it is requested that the different Courts be directly required to
so that they provide the status of the complaints filed, as well as the
content of criminal proceedings, in order to agree on the suspension
of this procedure by penal prejudiciality.

FIRST. OF THE CONDITION OF TME AS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TRA-
PROCESSING AND DELIMITATION OF PROCESSING OPERATIONS
PURPOSE OF THE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE.

At no time has the AEPD defined which operations or activities
of data processing is specifically referring, sending-
to this with a general character and in an absolutely arbitrary and particular manner.
far

It does not identify which are the processes or activities that are the responsibility of TME,
in such a way that they can be separated from those who fall within the scope of res-
responsibility of third parties (banks).

It is necessary to clarify that the treatment processes or activities that are
they question are none other than the processing of identifying data
(name, surnames, DNI), in order to identify the client as a step
prior to the management of a specific request (in this case two requests
specific, the duplication of SIM card and the change of ownership), being the
legitimizing basis of said treatment is the execution of the existing contract.
between TME and its client. That is, data processing operations
would consist of contrasting the information provided by the request
appointment with the information contained in our systems.

Refers to Guidelines 07/2020 of the European Committee for Data Protection
(CEPD), specifically: “(…) In practice, this may mean that the
control exercised by a particular entity may extend to the entire
ity of the processing in question, but may also be limited
to a particular stage of the processing” and the Judgment of the CJEU of 29
July 2019: “(…) On the contrary, [...] that natural or legal person does not
can be considered responsible for the treatment, in the sense of said
disposition, in the context of operations that precede or are subsequent to
in the general chain of treatment for which that person does not

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/106

ends the ends or the means.

It considers that the Agency erroneously links TME with a series of operations
rations or treatment activities that should be left out of the object
of the procedure. The Agency attempts to hold it responsible for operations
or treatment activities carried out by third parties, although certainly linked to
linked to other treatment operations that are the responsibility of
TME. TME cannot be held responsible for the fact that a certain
type of bank fraud because, if this were so, it could be res-
responsible for all illegitimate access that occurred within the framework of the
provision of services of any company that verified the identity
of your customers via mobile phone.

What the Agency questions is not compliance with the GDPR principles
or the diligence of TME when executing the duplicate card. What I know
has called into question is whether the identification policies that TME
has implemented are robust enough to prove
that the applicant of a certain management is who he claims to be.

TME is the first party interested in having said identification process carried out
without cracks and with the greatest possible guarantees and has implemented me-
adequate security measures in attention to the risks derived from the activity
treatment life for which it is responsible.

SECOND. ON THE ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES
YOU GO APPROPRIATE.

2.1

    TECHNICAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES IMPLEMENTED
 
 

Attached as Annex 1 is the document "(...)", which contains the latest version of the
document that (...). The central axis of these measures is constituted by the
(...) that is applicable depending on the type of management requested by the client.
tea.

Regarding (…):

It is done exclusively through (…). TME has adopted the measure of
most effective security and the one that offers the most guarantees in terms of identifying
care for a client, which is none other than verifying in person that some
who is who he says he is. The Agency has not clarified at any time
what sense does it consider that said operation is contrary to the Regulation or
nor does it mention what elements of the identification policy would have to be
have adapted.

The measures are not only adapted to the standards that have been applied
the main players in the telecommunications sector, but
in certain respects they surpass them. It has already been shown that the system
identity validation method that is contemplated in the "(...)" has the
same guarantees as the strong authentication system established
by Directive 2015/2366. The Agency has not analyzed in any way

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/106

  arranged by TME in its operations, whether or not they are co
 measures
 
lie yes
 
 
 -
inherited with PSD2.

It has already been shown that the “(…)” is aligned with the recommendations
established by the Agency itself in the report "Inspection plan of offices
cio on distance contracting in telecommunications operators
and energy marketers”, the AEPD has not ruled on
its Motion for a Resolution in this regard.

Regarding (…):

The (...) obliges the agents of (...).

In addition, currently this type of management is derived and processed by a
(...). The way in which it manages the (...) attached as Annex 2. In short,
(...). As stated in its report "Ex officio inspection plan (...)",
this way of identifying customers can be considered a standard within
 companies in the telecommunications sector.
of
 
 
 

TME disagrees with one of the Agency's statements, in con-
decree, contained on page 93 of the proposal, argues that:

1.- TME does not allow you to request or manage a change of SIM card in the
(...), it is only possible to request it in person at the store.
 
2.- The (...) are equivalent. Now, even being equivalent, it is evident
that they cannot in any case be the same. TME cannot adopt
the technical and organizational measures related to the processing of
cation without taking into account the channel, the type of management for which
izes the treatment, and the fulfillment of the obligations that it has as
operator.

3.- In no case has it been said that it is possible to obtain a duplicate of
SIM card without going in person to a store. It is not what has
happened in the cases of CLAIMANTS ONE, TWO and THREE.

2.2 REVIEW AND UPDATING OF TECHNICAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES
IMPLEMENTED NIZATIVES

TME has amply proven that it has carried out revision efforts
sion and reinforcement of operations.

Efforts have been channeled along three axes:

a) Reinforcement of existing operations:
 
•(…). Attach as Annex 3 the document "(...)" containing:
 

-. Excerpts from publications made in the (...), between the years 2019 to
2021.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/106

 
.- Excerpts from news published in (...) of which they are also part
the (...) between 2020 and 2021.

.- Implementation in October 2020 of the new (...) (Annex 2). (…)
(Annex 4).

b) Implementation of long-term transversal projects:

TME has worked on the development of (...).
 
c) Share the problem with this Agency and other interested parties.
sad:

.- In order to study possible ways of improvement without having received from
the AEPD, not a single proposal of those additional measures that could
would seem to be overlooking.

.- You have dealt with this problem with (...)”, with the aim of knowing and
adapt, where appropriate, effective measures that contribute to reducing this
type of fraud (Annex 5 “(…)”).

.- You have created a (...) whose first meeting took place in the month of
September 2021. (…).

It cannot be said that he has not carried out a task of constant adaptation
depending on the new risks identified.

2.3 ASSESSMENT OF THE ADEQUACY, TIMELINESS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF
THE TECHNICAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES IMPLEMENTED

He alludes to the FD Quinto and that the AEPD has not stopped at any time to
assess these aspects, few efforts have been dedicated to the analysis of the
proportionality in relation to:

Technical knowledge: TME was unaware of the authorization obligations
Tentication and third-party access imposed by the PSD2 Directive. Said obli-
regulations do not apply to it and did not enter into force until 14
September 2019.

Implementation costs: they are very high and so is the implementation time.
tion that entails the implementation of far-reaching measures.

Nature, scope and purposes: to verify the identity of clients in
a company dedicated to providing communications services
electronic and, as such, has the obligation to provide said services of
continuously and in compliance with the obligations derived from the regulations
which results from application.

In the Rationale the Agency only mentions a couple of the measures of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/106

security implemented by TME. It has not even been entered to do an analysis
specific system of the adequacy, timeliness and effectiveness of all measures
that you have implanted.

TME has certified and duly audited the processes and operations
You are going to be questioned in this file. Specifically, the suitability and
Ensuring policies for verifying the identity of clients, is
object of analysis of the UNE 19601 standard for Com-
Criminal compliance. In particular, control C.047, relating to the "Contracting
Client identity verification”, is specifically aimed at contrasting
the adequacy of the operations, the way to verify the identity of the clients
and the existence of monitoring and control mechanisms.

To guarantee compliance with this Criminal Compliance regulation, it is
necessary:

-. Obtaining the "Personal Compliance Management System Certificate"
nal” (hereinafter, SGCP). This certificate is renewed every 3 years and is
subject to the results of the periodic follow-up audits carried out.
They provide:
 

As Annex 6.1 and Annex 6.2, the documents "Certification 2017 AE-
NOR 19601” and “2020 AENOR 19601 Certification”, which accredit the certification
certification of TME in compliance with this regulation since the year
2017.
 
As Annex 7.1, the document "Certification 2020 EQA 19601", which
accredits the certification of TELEINFORMATICS AND COMMUNICATIONS,
S.A.U. (TELYCO) in compliance with this regulation since the year
2020.

-. Carrying out periodic follow-up audits. They contribute the two
Documents:

 

“Audit 2021 AENOR 19601” (Annex 6.3) and “Audit 2021 EQA
19601” (Annex 7.2). In both, compliance with the control is verified.
C.047. Specifically, the result of this audit process de-
shows that TME has:

1.- OPERATIONS.
 
2.- VERIFICATION OF IDENTITY AND ASSOCIATE DOCUMENTATION-
GIVES.
 
3.- MONITORING and CONTROL.

The Crime Prevention Model used by TME has also been audited.
done by the consultant (...) through its Internal Control Report on the
Organization and Management Model for Crime Prevention. It provides the
says, the purpose, scope and conclusions of said Report in the document
to “2020 EY Internal Control Report Crime Prevention Model”, as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/106

Annex 8.1 and the document "Annex I Report 2020 Controls analyzed EY"
as Annex 8.2.

On the other hand, it does not consider that an analysis of the
adequacy of the measures if their effectiveness in terms of
No. of volume of transactions affected:
 
The Agency insists that we are dealing with a fundamental right protected
governed by the CE. But, it is no less true that, as indicated by the RGPD "the
The right to the protection of personal data is not an absolute right.
mourning, but must be considered in relation to their role in society and
maintain a balance with other fundamental rights, in accordance with the principle
principle of proportionality.”

Lastly, it is not admissible for the Agency to allude in its Resolution Proposal
tion to an alleged violation of a policy that is not applicable to TME
(Know Your Costumer (KNY)).

THIRD. OF THE RESPONSIBILITY OF TME IN CASES OF SU-
PLANTATION OF IDENTITY OF THE THREE CLAIMANTS

3.1 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE DATA PROCESSOR

TME entrusts part of the data processing operations subject to
this procedure to trusted suppliers. The providers selected
tioned go through a rigorous selection and hiring process that
contemplates the application of specific security measures, depending on the
type of contracted provider. Provides as Annex 9 and Annex 10 the (...).

Both documents are intended, respectively:
 

 

-. (...).

-. (...).

 
Ultimately, the application of the aforementioned internal regulations has
As a result, the imposition of the security measures that are included in
on (...), attached as Annex 11.

He refers to what the AEPD affirmed on page 92 and argues that in no way
moment has tried to evade the responsibilities that correspond to it
respect to the safety of the treatment, but to show the compliance
compliance by TME with the obligations that the protection regulations
tion of data imposes on the person in charge, in terms of:
 

-. Have duly regularized the relations of contract of trade
treatment with the affected suppliers in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 28 RGPD.

-. Transfer with due diligence and clearly to those in charge

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/106

treatment documents the instructions that govern the treatment operations
commissioned treatment.

Thus, the AEPD considers it proven in the Resolution Proposal that TME has
duly regularizes relations with those in charge of treating
I have indicated that "it has been verified in the alleged allegations the
existence of contractual clauses that refer to “Instructions
tions” documented by TME (…).”

Bearing in mind that the impersonations of the complaining parties
ONE, TWO and THREE have in common the concurrence of punctual errors
of the operation designed by TME, and that the Agency has verified the commission
sion of said non-compliances, understands that it is very important to highlight the
difference between:
 

That the measures implemented are appropriate.

That the measures have been correctly transferred to those in charge

That the measures have been breached by those in charge.

-
 
-
two.
 
-

In other words, it is necessary to differentiate between the measures implemented being sufficient
and that these, even though they are sufficient, could have been breached
tually by those in charge.
 
He argues that having proven in this proceeding that, if
been for said non-compliances, said substitutions would not have occurred.
tations, considers it essential to define the responsibilities that
assumed by each of the parties in relation to the processing operations.
of disputed data. It refers to the Guidelines 07/2020 where it is said: So-
Both those responsible and those in charge can be fined in case
breach of GDPR obligations that are relevant
for both, and both are directly accountable to the authorities.
from supervision (...).

In relation to this aspect, TME also affirms that according to article
28.10 of the RGPD, the person in charge can be considered as responsible for the
treatment in case of “determining the purposes and means of the treatment”. According to
indicates, the aforementioned Guidelines would clarify that ““Determining the purposes
and the means is equivalent to deciding respectively the "why" and the "how" of the
prosecution"

In short, it is alleged that TME cannot be held responsible
for this breach, since this company would have acted with all diligence
required agency, and that the possible security flaws when the certificates have been issued
duplicates of the SIM cards would be attributable to the supplier, since this
would have failed to comply with his instructions.

3.2 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BANKING ENTITIES

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/106

It seems that the AEPD wants to make TME responsible for the commission of the
bank fraud carried out by the fraudsters in all three cases.

The obligations of authentication and access of third parties imposed by the Di-
Directive PSD2 are not applicable to TME and, furthermore, they did not come into force.
gor until September 14, 2019.

For all these reasons, TME cannot be held responsible for the treatments carried out.
acted by other responsible parties (banking entities), nor can it be attributed to
TME the responsibility to adopt security measures related to
data processing operations carried out for a different purpose.

II. ON THE FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST. ON THE ALLEGED INFRINGEMENT THAT CONTINUES
BEING COMMITTED BY TME: VIOLATION OF THE
PRINCIPLE OF TYPICITY

It has been proven “that TME has documented policies of
data protection that establishes the way of acting of TME and of
the managers".

1.1 ABOUT THE CONDUCT OF TME: IN NO CASE COULD IT CONSIDER
DERARSE SUBSUMABLE IN ARTICLE 5.1 F) RGPD.
 
The AEPD has verified that the conduct is not subject to article 5.2
RGPD, that is, it recognizes that TME has complied with the provisions of article
5.1 and has been able to demonstrate it, verifying the application of measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures that guarantee a level of security
that is appropriate to the risk. These measures are reviewed and updated when
it is necessary in order to guarantee the security of the treatment.

The Agency is demanding infallibility from TME, attending only to the
result produced in the case of only three claimants, and assuming
again the existence of strict liability (outlawed in our
legal system) as sufficient justification to consider that there is
an offence, and that it is very serious. It refers to the CIPL (Center for Information
Policy Leadership), who in his comments about the guidelines on the
notification of violations of personal data of the WG of Article 29 (“Com-
ments by the Center for Information Policy Leadership On the Article 29 Wo-
rking Party’s “Guidelines on personal data breach notification under Regula-
tion 2016/679” Adopted on 3 October 2017”), illustrates well the difference between
risk mitigation and infallibility, by indicating that it cannot be an obligation
tion for organizations to ensure absolute security of operations.
purposes of data processing ("It cannot be an obligation for organizations
to guarantee absolute security of data processing activities”).

Likewise, it has not been taken into consideration that even the WG on protection
tion of data of article 29, in the “Guidelines on the notification of the
violations of the security of personal data in accordance with the Rule-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/106

2016/679” recognizes that, even if security measures are implemented,
security, there may be risks, indicating that:
 

“(…) a key element of any security policy of
data is to be able, to the extent possible, to prevent a breach and,
when, despite everything, it occurs, react quickly”.

It also refers to an INCIBE article:

“To reduce the likelihood of these types of incidents occurring
(…)”
“In this way we will avoid, as far as possible, the leaks of
information and the loss of image of our company”.

And to the Ruling of the AP of Valladolid (Section 1) no. 74/2010 of March 10-
zo (AC 2010\368), in relation to the alleged breach of security measures
security by a bank, states that:

“In any operating system, even the traditional one, there are
risks and what is decisive for attributing responsibilities will be whether
used, sufficient guarantees were given, without being able to reach the
contrary conclusion by the mere fact that subsequently
security systems have been improved, which is logical
modernize and improve in the face of new fraudulent practices
ries that make the previous ones ineffective”.

TME considers that it has been proven that security measures are not
have been violated, but there has been a breach of the operations
established by TME and that actions by third parties have taken place.
us to her

Thus, the legality or not of a security measure (that is, its adequacy)
tion) is determined by its contribution to the reduction of the proba-
probability of occurrence of the incident, and without any doubt, if the probability
occurrence of a fraudulent request for SIM duplication (for
any of its modalities) is X,XXXXX %, it is a percentage
minimum rate.

In relation to the risk assessment, it should be noted that the
issuance of a duplicate SIM card may be necessary for a
customer continue to enjoy their mobile communications service. Namely,
The data processed is identifying the client, in order to prove
the identity of the applicant for the management and to be able to continue providing the service
vice of mobile telephony, in accordance with the requirements of current regulations:
article 47 of the LGTEL, article 3. e) of RD 899/2009, of May 22 and the Or-
in IET/1090/2014.

1.2 ON THE DRAFTING OF THE REGULATION THAT RESULTS FROM APPLICATION
CATION: UNDETERMINED LEGAL CONCEPTS THAT CONTRIBUTE
YEN TO INCREASE THE LEGAL INSECURITY AND DEFENSE OF

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/106

TME.

He invokes the Judgment of the Supreme Court of June 26, 2001 (RJ 2001,
5740), which recalls the doctrine of the Constitutional Court.

He alludes to the importance of the regulatory norm not making formulations
vague, open or excessively broad of the offenses and sanctions, which
lack sufficient determination, since “the sanctioning organ would be allowed
tionor to act with excessive discretion and not with the prudent and reasonable that
would allow a proper normative specification” (STC 61/1990, of March 29,
zo).
 
The AEPD has not taken into account the allegations made by TME, limiting
referring to recitals 7 and 13 of the RGPD, to invoke the right
right to data protection as a fundamental right, and to the definitions
of article 4, among which it recognizes that legal concepts are not included.
to which we made reference in the allegations to the Initial Agreement
cio. For this reason, the ambiguity and indeterminacy of the
concepts included in the precept that this AEPD considers violated,
such as: “adequate security” or “appropriate technical and organizational measures
pious”.
 
Invokes article 9.3 of the CE, the STC 104/2009, of May 4 and the STC
145/2013, of July 11 and argues that the Agency continues to promote insecurity
legal authority and hindering the defense of TME, which may be violated in con-
sequence certain principles that are guaranteed to constitute
tionally (article 24, 25 and 9.3 of the CE).

1.3 SUBSIDIARILY: ON THE INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION
OF THE REGULATION MADE BY THIS AGENCY. RISK OF VUL-
NERATION OF THE PRINCIPLE OF SPECIALTY.
 
In relation to the specialty principle, the Agency limits itself to collecting the
expressed arguments, without reaching a pronouncement on this aspect. In the
Resolution Proposal “redirects the imputation of the initial infractions
cially considered. The legal qualification of the facts that are imputed
is classified as a single infringement derived from the infringement
of article 5.1. f) of the RGPD” without taking into account the principle of specialization.
ity, and specifically article 32 of the RGPD.

A violation of the principle of specialty requires priority in the application
cation of the specific precept over the general. Ultimately, of the items
that were referenced at the time, would also be article 32 of the GDPR.
well regulated in the LOPDGDD, which in its article 73 f), unlike the article
Article 72.1 a), establishes as a serious infraction “f) Failure to adopt those
technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to guarantee
establish a level of security appropriate to the risk of processing, in the terms
required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. So, in
In no case could the conduct of MSD be classified as very serious.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/106

SECOND. ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE ALLEGED CONDUCT IN
OTHER SANCTIONING PROCEDURES INITIATED AGAINST TME AND TE-
LEFÓNICA DE ESPAÑA, S.A.U (TDE): ERROR IN THE QUALIFICATION OF
THE INFRINGEMENT.
It should be specified that this part does determine how your
situation, since the Agency's action is arbitrary. In the PS/
00114/2019, PS/00453/2019, PS/00235/2020, the criminalization of the conduct has
been different and the sanction imposed as well. In all of them, the
conduct of TME as contrary to article 6.1 RGPD (“lawfulness of the treatment
to") for allegedly having processed the data of the complainants without
There is a legal basis for it. However, in this case consider the
conduct contrary to article 5.1 f) of the RGPD. Likewise, the penalty
The proposal has also been far from the proposal in the framework of this experiment.
tooth, despite the application of article 83.5 a). It's more than obvious
that with this procedure, the AEPD promotes a proscribed legal uncertainty and
hinders an adequate defense of MSDs, consequently violating the pre-
visions of article 9.3 CE.

THIRD. THE CONDUCT OF TME IS NOT UNLAWFUL

Regarding the illegality of the conduct by the Agency “it is considered that
responds to the type of offender and the title of guilt”, without analyzing the allegations
tions made by this party in this regard.

Insists on rejecting the unlawfulness of the conduct based on the following
arguments:

 

-. The customer identification operation includes technical measures and
organizational measures designed to ensure adequate security of the
personal data of its clients, including protection against treatment
unauthorized or unlawful lying. He argues that the rule does not require infallibility
of these measures.

-. The measures implemented have proven timely and effective in
attention to the volume of contracting and other procedures, and the obligation
tion of ensuring client connectivity quickly and
sustainable over time. TME's actions have not injured or
endangered any protected legal right, but rather responds to the need
necessary balance between ensuring the security of data processing
personal rights and guarantee the provision of community services.
electronic cations in accordance with the rest of the regulations that result from
app.

-. In relation to the contractual relationship that exists with the distributors
providers and other providers, these contracts respond to the reality
mercantile and include all those provisions that are necessary with the
purpose of ensuring compliance. In this sense, the AEPD yes “has
confirmed that TME has documented protection policies
tion of data (…)”. However, it does not accept the allegations made

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/106

for this part in that sense.

QUARTER. NO FAULT

There is no subjective element of guilt required for the imposition of
administrative sanctions. Quite the contrary, since TME's attitude reveals
an unequivocal will to proceed in accordance with the law without actually existing
any intention to violate the norm, and in any case having the will
of compliance.

TME does not question whether or not legal persons have the capacity to infringe
the rules to which they are subjected, but the absence of their guilt, and
consequently, the absence of infraction of the norm.

This lack of guilt is manifested around the fact that:

-. TME's conduct was carried out with all professional diligence
demandable, that he acted in good faith, and that, for that reason, it cannot be imputed
sele a guilty act.

-. The choice and supervision of those in charge of treatment has been determined
performed with all due professional diligence. Also, you must
insist on the own responsibility of the person in charge of the treatment.

-. The behaviors that have provoked the consequences exposed in any
In some cases they are attributable to TME.

4.1 DILIGENT ACTION, GOOD FAITH AND LEGITIMATE TRUST
OF MSD

In relation to the diligence of TME, it is striking that in the Proposal
of Resolution, on the one hand, certain affirmations are indicated that include va-
positive lotions and on the other hand, in contrast to indicate other ne-
gatives.

In relation to these arguments, it is appropriate to make a series of clarifications.

First of all, it should be noted that TME is not specifically dedicated to the
management of personal data, but it is a company dedicated to the provision
tion of electronic communications services.

TME has not limited itself to invoking the absence of guilt, but rather everything ex-
put into the allegations made is fully demonstrative of the rigor and
diligence with which he has acted.

The AEPD maintains in the Resolution Proposal that "the infraction becomes
not because of the lack of a specific security policy for the expedition
of SIM duplicates, but because of the need for their review and reinforcement (...)
It is not enough to have a security policy, but to adapt it to
mitigate risks. (…)”. However, it has been proven that TME treats

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/106

constantly decreases in the improvement of the measures available to him with the
objective of avoiding identity theft in the different processes of
contracting and procedures that are requested, in the training and in the adaptation
security protocols within the organization. That is to say, it has remained-
fully proven that TME implements control measures
adequate, which are reviewed and reinforced. Invokes the UNE certification
19601 of Criminal Compliance Management Systems, as well as having due
audited its Model of Organization and Management for the Prevention
of Crimes including control C.047 related to the "Verification Hiring
cation client identity”.

However, the Agency continues to focus only on the result produced.
acid, disregarding the circumstances completely unrelated to TME that
have taken place, thus demanding strict liability.

The AEPD has recognized that TME has contractual clauses that make
cen reference to documented instructions, in addition, as a provider of
electronic communications services, has the obligation to provide it in
continuously and at all times has acted in good faith and in a pro-
active and diligent (including participation in the GT). Summon the STS of 17
of December 1988 that says: "it is not fair to sanction those who act in
good faith proceeding to leave the sanction without effect when the act of the accused
sin was due to a certain belief that excludes guilt.

4.2 DUE DILIGENCE IN THE CHOICE AND SUPERVISION OF THE
CHARGED OF THE TREATMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THIS:

In the Proposal for a Resolution it is stated that “The ultimate responsibility is
about the treatment continues to be attributed to the person in charge, who is the one who determines
undermines the existence of the treatment and its purpose”, and again mentions the
subject to article 5 of the RGPD

There is a breach of the operations established by TME: liability
ity of those in charge of treating MSDs and certain actions
of third parties outside the sphere of action and responsibility of TME.

It invokes that the Agency has recognized the existence of contractual clauses
that refer to documented instructions, therefore, you acknowledge
diligent action, however, dismisses the allegation made to the pointer
lar that “the treatments carried out by those in charge will be made on behalf
of the person in charge, that is, TME”.

He invokes articles 1902 and 1903 of the Civil Code and insists that his conduct
has been diligent, since, for example:

- The selected suppliers go through a rigorous process of
selection and hiring that contemplates the application of measures
specific security measures, depending on the type of contracted provider.
do.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/106

- It has a consolidated and adequate procedure for verifying
tion of the identity of the clients, and with instructions duly
documented to their data processors.

- In the contracts with those in charge, certain
undermined disciplinary and penal measures, and, for the purposes
to guarantee compliance with the identification operation in
store, a penalty has been established for the entire face-to-face channel
additional payment for each procedure carried out and documented incorrectly.
mind by a commercial. It entails the implementation of
a monthly certification process of the compliance of the distributors
buidores.

- Certification of the UNE 19601 Systems of
Management of Criminal Compliance and compliance, both by
TME as well as the rest of the group companies, from control C.047
relating to the "Contracting Customer Identity Verification". Namely,
The existence of “(…)” is credited, among other things.

- The (...) is being carried out.

- The “(…)” has been included for authorized users.

Refers to the STS 1232/2018 of July 18, 2018 and the STSJ of Madrid
568/2020 of September 10, 2020. In short, in no case was the
the duties of vigilance that weigh on TME in relation to the persons
nas acting on their behalf.

The Agency has not taken into account the content of article 28.10 of the RGPD.
Therefore, what happened was not due to vulnerabilities in the procedures.
established procedures, nor in the instructions given to those in charge of processing
treatment, but to the non-compliance of the operation designed by the
commercial agents of the channels for the attention of the requests of the
different procedures referred to in this file, and consequently
non-compliance with the instructions given by TME by the employers.
employees of said managers.
 
He insists that, from the foregoing, it can be concluded that the AEPD is demanding
strict liability, based simply on the result, without
bear in mind that TME has acted with complete diligence in the relationship
with their treatment managers. Adduces the STS (Litigation Chamber-
Administrative, Section 3) no. 1468/2017 of September 28 (RJ 2017\4422).
It is necessary, therefore, to verify guilty intervention on the part of the
of TME, which has not occurred in this case, without there being either “fault in vi-
gilando”. As long as this element is not complied with, sanctions cannot be imposed.
tion and the sanctioning procedure should be archived.

4.3 EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES AND OUTSIDE TELEFÓNICA:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/106

• Possible negligence in the care of personal data on the part of
users: the users themselves have the responsibility of custodian
properly disclose your personal data.

By using the Internet, they can share certain information
personal, which may imply that it is used by third parties for illicit purposes.
cough. This is outside the scope and capacity of action of TME, since
that the data that sometimes allows identity theft can
be obtained from the information that, if applicable, may have been disclosed by the
user at any time, or from a lack of duty of care when guarding
your passwords or personal information.

It refers to the AEPD Guide “Data protection and crime prevention” and
recommendations on Phishing. These circumstances have not been
taken into account by the Agency.

Likewise, TME informs its clients within the framework of their contractual relationship
a series of clauses that require diligence regarding access codes and
devices. It refers to several sentences. The Judgment no. AP 107/2018
of ***PROVINCIA.2 of March 12, which establishes that “For their part, the clients
You have a duty of custody with respect to your access codes (...);
Judgment of the AP of Seville, dated May 26, 2014, having made
ignoring bank warnings and security notices; sit-
information from the AP of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria dated December 20,
2012, which states that if the client incurred an error caused by a third party
zero alien to the Bank and facilitated, deceived, the keys to that delinquent;
and Judgment no. 74/2010 of the Valladolid AP of March 10.
In short, and as the Agency reproduces, "(...)", data that may have been able to
do facilitate the affected party without knowing it, or those who have been allowed to
access, making it clear that access to SMS by the impersonated-
res by itself does not allow the execution of banking operations (result
pursued by supplanters).
• Probable liability of third parties unrelated to TME, such as
bank des
 
    

 understood
 
 -

 

The Agency recognizes that this type of scam is initiated in the field of
banking entities and their purpose is to execute banking operations.
However, it continues to attribute to TME a responsibility that it does not bear.
rresponds, but corresponds to these. TME only processes the data identified
assets of the client in order to prove the identity of the applicant of the
management and to be able to continue providing the mobile telephony service, attending
to the requirements of telecommunications and consumer regulations). But
the AEPD is trying to make it responsible for some treatment operations
personal data carried out by third parties (such as banks), which do not
are your responsibility.

The Agency acknowledges that the PSD2 Directive does not apply to TME and
insists that the duplicate SIM card allows impersonators to access
to the transaction authentication code. He insists that he is not having-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/106

It is taken into account that the operation or treatment activity carried out, and the
which is responsible for the treatment, is limited to managing the duplication of a
SIM card within the framework of its obligations as a service provider
electronic communications. It has nothing to do with the mechanisms of autism.
tentication used by third parties.

Insists, the bank should establish security measures
suitable for access to your private environment and check that effectively
mind is sending a key to carry out the transaction to the holder of the
account and refers to the SAP of Alicante 107/2018 that indicates that "It constitutes by
both an essential obligation of the entities providing the banking service
ca online to equip itself with sufficient measures that guarantee the user the
security of operations (...) and to the SAP of Zaragoza that says: except
fraudulent act or gross negligence of the account holder, the liability
responsibility of the operation belongs to the bank to which it also corresponds
bar the proper functioning of the computer system”.
In conclusion, from all of the above it can be concluded that this Agency is im-
placing TME with a series of obligations that do not correspond to it, demanding
again strict liability, for the mere fact of being the provider
of the mobile telephony service and consequently be in charge of managing
tion SIM duplicates.

• Intentional actions of third parties to commit a crime

In the Resolution Proposal, the Agency acknowledges that:

-

-

-

“(…) to complete the scam, it is necessary for a third party to “impersonate the
identity” of the owner of the data, to receive the duplicate of the card
SIM”.

“SIM Swapping is a criminal technique consisting of obtaining
a duplicate of the SIM card associated with a telephone line owned by
identity of a user, in order to impersonate their identity to obtain
access to your social networks, instant messaging applications, applications
banking or electronic commerce, in order to interact and
carry out operations on your behalf, authenticating through a user
and password previously taken from that user, as well as with the
double factor authentication when receiving the confirmation SMS in your pro-
own mobile terminal where they will have inserted the duplicate SIM card”.

“It should be noted that in the first phase of this type of scam the supplanting
fraudulently obtains the access data or the credentials
of the customer's online banking, but he needs to be able to know the
verification code, second authentication factor, to be able to
execute any operation. By the time you get the SIM card
duplicate already has access to this second factor of authentication as well
and, therefore, from that moment he can carry out the acts of disposition for
trimonial you want”.

It must be taken into account that, from the commission of a crime, as indicated in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/106

Article 27 of the Criminal Code, those responsible are the "authors and accomplices"
ces", being authors "those who carry out the act by themselves, jointly
or through another that they use as an instrument” (article 28 CP). Y
It is clear that these authors are third parties that have nothing to do with TME.
On the other hand, we must also refer again at this point to the en-
previous win by the impersonator to the commercials of TME to
get certain things done.

It even states that it could be considered a case of force majeure, therefore,
box the circumstances described in said concept, which determines the lack
responsibility or culpability in the offending conduct. alludes to 3
sentences (of the AP of Malaga and Barcelona).
 
In
 abstract
 
 
given in behavior
 

 , the essential element of culpabili does not concur in this case.
 -

 ,  as:

  of MSDs
 

 

 

 Has always acted with full and well-founded belief that excludes all
responsibility and in compliance with applicable legislation.
 
 We are faced with the responsibility of the employees of the
MSD users and providers (treatment managers) who have in-
complied with the operations established by TME, despite the more than evident
and proven diligence of TME within the framework of said relationship
contractual.
 
 In any case, and in the event of identity theft, it can
produced by a multitude of factors that are beyond the will and ability
action of TME, such as:

i) There are third parties who have the will to commit a crime, action
which is unavoidable for Telefónica (in other words, it is not a
error that can be overcome as indicated by this Agency, since there could be no
been avoided).

ii) The data that allows identity theft is not obtained
Telefónica nests. Users have an obligation to safeguard
and obtaining them may be derived from negligent action.
people of said users by giving access to said data.

  
iii) The banking entities are responsible for determining the
necessary security measures to guarantee the consent
of the account holder before any banking operation, and the
proof of your identity.

Therefore, it is of extraordinary interest to reiterate that in this case there is no
causal link by action or omission, between TME and the final result, due to the
intervention of third parties with sufficient entity to alter that link.
Therefore, since there is no unlawful conduct, nor typical, nor guilty of
TME in the imputed facts we insist that it should have been ordered

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/106

filed this procedure and not impose any sanction.
na.

FIFTH. BREACH OF THE PRINCIPLE OF PROPORTIONALITY

In the hypothetical case that the AEPD, lacking adequate legal support,
legal and with the sole purpose of imposing a fine, considers it appropriate and
dispensable to financially sanction TME, the amount must be
estimated taking into account in any case the principle of proportionality that
sanctioning power prevails.

It refers to the STS of June 2, 2003 and to Considerations 4, 129 and 148 and
to article 83.

The economic penalty is totally ineffective and disproportionate. In
 item forecasts
Specifically, they have not taken into consideration the
 
 
83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD when determining the amount of the administrative fine.
deal proposal.

 

5.1 OF THE AGGRAVANTS APPRECIATED BY THE AGENCY
- 83.2.a) GDPR.
Regarding seriousness: Adduces SAN 00496/2017, in which it is not considered fair
tified or motivated the assessment of the conduct as serious by the
SESIAD, to the extent that it was not appreciated that the breach was
widespread.
Regarding the duration: it is surprising that the Agency appreciates the aggravating circumstance of
tion, understanding that the events cover a period of more than a year, and at the same
time the lack of continued nature of the in-
fraction.
Concerning affected stakeholders: the Agency is conveniently using
the information is transferred by TME, given that, on the one hand, it rejects the arguments
elements exposed in the Third Allegation of the Allegations to the Agreement of
Home and on the other, understands that the aggravating circumstance of interested parties affected
based on the information transferred within the framework of the requirements
of information practiced.
About the damages produced: in no way can it be attributed to
TME responsibility for the materialization of bank fraud, since
your responsibility ends with the result of the duplicate card, but not
is responsible for the customer identification policies established by
banking entities.
- 83.2.b) GDPR. Negligence:
The
   with the complaining parties ONE, TWO and THREE
   events that occurred
 
can be considered in no way as a representative sample
of the level of commitment shown by TME in the fulfillment of its obligations
regulations in terms of data protection and, much less, of the degree of
effectiveness of security policies that are designed to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/106

serve a volume of customers that exceeds 8 million.
- 83.2.d) GDPR. Responsibility:
TME does not understand the meaning of what is expressed in this aggravating circumstance nor the
used by the Agency to reach that conclusion.
- 83.2.e) GDPR. Other offenses committed:
It considers that there is only room for a restrictive interpretation of said precept,
being taken into account in any case, only those sanctions
that had previously relapsed in relation to the same type of offender.
- 83.2.g) GDPR. Data categories affected:
The AEPD is referring once again to the damage caused by fraud.
of banking, when that has nothing to do with the type of data categories
treated by MSDs that do not fall into the category of sensitive data collected
given in article 9 of the RGPD, if not that the AEPD itself classifies them as “da-
low-risk cough”, according to the category of personal data made in the
section 6.2.3 of the “Guide for the management and notification of security breaches
dad.”
- 76.2.b) LOPDGDD. Link with the realization of treatments.
Although it is true that TME carries out a high volume of treatment operations,
processing of personal data, the vast majority of these progress without further in-
incidence. It could, where appropriate, be considered the link between TME and the reality
processing of personal data as a mitigating circumstance, not as a
aggravating circumstance.
5.2 OF THE EXTENUATIVES APPRECIATED BY THIS AGENCY IN THE
START AGREEMENT
TME considers that the Agency has not taken into account the following
extenuating:
 - 76.2 d) LOPDGDD. Negligence of the affected:
The impersonations of identity produced in the three cases of the parties involved
claimants would not have been possible under any circumstances if the impersonator did not
had carried out a prior illegitimate capture of the personal data of
these clients.
The Agency rejects the concurrence of this extenuating circumstance, understanding that the
cited precept "refers to a voluntary and active action of those affected,
circumstance not accredited in the analyzed cases”. However, it is not that
what the aforementioned article says, which specifically indicates that “when deciding the im-
position of an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case
will duly take into account: d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected
ted could have induced the commission of the infraction.”
If the Agency understands that the fraud could have been avoided if
TME would have used different identification mechanisms (question
which has been shown to be uncertain throughout this Procedure), does not
may arbitrarily overlook the fact that fraud did not

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/106

would have taken place if the impersonators had not previously been made
with the personal data through the interested parties.
The truth is that TME cannot establish its identification policies.
covering all the scenarios in which the interested parties deal with their
own personal data.

- 83.2.j) GDPR. Certification of the company's processes in question:

TME has an accredited SGCP in accordance with the UNE standard
19601, which certifies the validity of the identity verification system of
clients in order to prevent possible crimes of fraud (art. 248, 249,
250, 251 and art. 251 bis of the Penal Code).
In the event that it cannot be taken into account to assess the attention
contained in article 83.2.j) of the RGPD, understands that it must consider
considered as a mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case in
the terms set forth in article 83. 2. k) of the RGPD.

- 83.2.j) GDPR. Other mitigating factors applicable to the circumstances of the
case:

 

They consider that they have not been taken into account:

-. The economic losses suffered by TME: The Agency has not taken into account
that the operators are one more victim of this type of action. TME suffers so much
direct economic losses (refund of the amount of the duplicates, between
others) and indirect (serious reputational damage, high impact on the experience of
customers).

.- The complexity of implementing new measures. TME has implemented (...)
that pretend to be an important lever of change in the processes of identification
tion of clients However, this type of initiative entails great
amounts of human and financial resources, making it impossible to implement
immediate tion of the same.

.- TME has duly audited its (...) for Crime Prevention.

.- The concurrence of the obligations derived from the regulations applicable to companies
dams operating in the telecommunications sector.

For all of the above, if the AEPD decides to maintain the sanction, these mitigating factors must
be taken into account to reduce its amount.

Based on the above allegations, TME requests:

Yo.

ii.

The procedure is suspended and the claimants are required to
provide the status of the complaints filed in order to determine
nar if there is criminal prejudiciality.
 
The non-existence of responsibility on the part of TME for the pre-
alleged infractions imputed, ordering the filing of the sanctioned file
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

53/106

pain
 
Subsidiarily, it is taken into consideration that the
conduct in the precept that the Agency continues to consider violated, and
there is an error in the classification of the infraction.
 
In case of understanding that the technical and security measures are not adequate
das, the specialty of article 32 of the RGPD should be addressed.
 
Finally, that the initially proposed sanction be reduced.

iii.

IV.

v.

(The underlining, italics and bold are from TME).

These Allegations will be answered in the FD of this Resolution.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: TME is responsible for the data processing referred to in the presentation.
this Resolution, since according to the definition of article 4.7 of the RGPD it is
who determines the purpose and means of the treatments carried out with the purposes
indicated in its Privacy Policy https://www.movistar.es/particulares/centro-de-
privacy/#For: At Movistar we process the data of the client or user for the provision
tion of the service, as well as for other purposes that it allows or authorizes in
the terms informed in this Privacy Policy or in the Conditions is-
specific to each contracted Movistar Product or Service.

SECOND: TME provides its mobile telephony services through three co-brands
commercials that are: Movistar, O2 and Tuenti. Each of them has different operations.
operating ratios.

THIRD: On December 13, 2019, this Agency received a claim
mation made by claimant one (file with reference number E/
00560/2020), directed against THADER, located in ***LOCATION.2 (***PROVINCE.2),
after issuing on March 6, 2019 a duplicate of the SIM card of the line
***TELEPHONE.1, in favor of a third person other than the owner of the line -the party
claimant one.

These events were reported to the Mossos d'Esquadra USC of ***LOCALI-
DAD.3 (Barcelona) on March 8, 2019, procedure number XXXXXXXX,
in which claimant one stated the following:

“(…) That he wants to report that his mobile SIM card has been duplicated again
***TELÉFONO.1 and this time, they have accessed their BBVA online banking and
made two transfers for a total value of 28,000 euros.

That the first complaint with the steps indicated above doubled the tar-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/106

SIM card of the mobile but no fraudulent charge or movement was found.
slow through your mobile.

That he canceled his SIM card and got a new one with a new mobile number
(…)

That on the morning of 03/07/2019, the complainant received a call from
your entity to come to the office.

That once in the office they told him if he had made any strange movement
from your online banking and the complainant said no.

That from the BBVA office they told him that there had been two transfers
from your current account to a third party for a value of 13,000 and 15,000 euros.

That these transfers are made first from a checking account.
denouncer in a fixed plan to the current savings account also of the de-
announcer, and from here to a third person.

That the final checking account that receives the transfers is ES00 0000 0000
00000 0000 00000 from BBVA in the name of B.B.B.

That the transfer date is 03/06/2019 in the afternoon.

That precisely, from this day in the afternoon, the complainant stayed with the
inoperative mobile. (…)”. (The Catalan translation is ours).

In relation to this claim, THADER informed this Agency that, on 6
March 2019, a SIM card change was made at the Movistar store in ***LO-
QUALITY.2, according to Movistar operations "(...)" after validating the documentation
provided: (...).

TME, informed this Agency that the issuance of the duplicate was possible due to the
concurrence of several circumstances:

1.

(...):

two.- (…).

3.- (…).

FOURTH: On December 17, 2019, this Agency received another re-
claim made by claimant one (file with reference no.
E/00560/2020), directed against MOVISTAR CARREFOUR ***PROVINCIA.1, after experience
say on February 5, 2019 a duplicate of the SIM card of the line ***TE-
LÉFONO.2, in favor of a third person other than the owner of the line -the re-
crying one-

These events were the subject of a complaint before the Mossos d'Esquadra USC of
***LOCATION.3 (Barcelona) on February 7, 2019, with procedure number
cia XXXXXXXXXX, in which claimant one stated the following:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

55/106

“That on the morning of 02/05/2019 he received a call from a Mo-
visit from ***PROVINCIA.2 with telephone number XXXXXXX in which he was informed that
a person was requesting a SIM card duplicate of the phone number
phone ***TELEPHONE.2, which corresponds to the declarant.

That specifically they told him that an Italian person had gone to five
Movistar stores in ***PROVINCIA.2 requesting a duplicate SIM card
of the number ***TELÉFONO.2 and brought a complaint in which he said that he had
lost your mobile phone with phone number XXXXXXXXX.

That they also told him that at the time they asked for his DNI this
boy was leaving the store.

That those from the same Movistar store asked him if he had authorized a
duplicate card.

That the declarant answered no.

That on today's date the declarant has gone to the Movistar store in ***LOCALI-
DAD.3 and they have informed him that yesterday at 9:48 p.m. in a Carrefour in
***PROVINCIA.1 had made a duplicate of the card with their phone number.
phone.

That the distributor code where it was made is ***CODE.1 and the number of
agent who made the duplicate is ***AGENT.1.

That they also informed him that at the time the duplicate was made he
He was left without a telephone line since they discharged him.” (The Catalan translation is
our).

In relation to this claim, TME informed this Agency that the duplicate never
ca came to be carried out in full, since the distributor did not deliver the card
SIM to the impersonator. (...).

FIFTH: On March 6, 2020, a claim was received by this Agency
tion made by the complaining party two (file with reference number E/
03543/2020), directed against CATPHONE and TME, after being issued on February 13
of 2020, a duplicate of the SIM card of the ***TELÉFONO.3 line, in favor of a
third person other than the owner of the line -the claimant party two-.

These events were the subject of two complaints before Post P. de las Rozas of the Co-
mandate of the Civil Guard of Madrid on February 13 and 18, 2020, with
attestation numbers ***ATESTADO.1 and ***ATESTADO.2 respectively, in which
Claimant two stated the following:

In the first complaint:

”(…) a duplicate of the SIM card of the telephone ***TELÉFONO.3 no
authorized by the complainant, that the complainant about 1:00 p.m. when making a
call from your phone this does not allow you to make it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

56/106

That he begins to take steps, he gets in touch with TELEFONICA MOVIS-
TAR which inform you that you have made a duplicate card IN A STORE-
DA DE MOVISTAR located at ***ADDRESS.2 of the town of ***LOCATION.4.
That the complainant informs him that he is in Madrid and it is impossible for him to
have authorized any duplicates.

That having well-founded suspicions that this was not normal, he performs checks
deposits in your bank account of BANCO SANTANDER which is at your
name, observing several unauthorized charges in it, these being the following:
following:

They have made a purchase in the REVOLUT company worth 2,500 euros
They have made a purchase from the REVOLUT company worth 3,500 euros.

(...) that he received a message on Monday, February 3 from his bank from (...) his account manager
Santander bank asking him to contact the telephone number ***TELÉ-
FONO.4 and that on the 10th he received a call from the Bank's anti-fraud department
Santander informing him that there was an attempt to manipulate accounts from
***COUNTRY.1, who went to the bank and changed the passwords.”

In the second complaint:

"(...) you want to expand the data of the charges suffered on your card since they have made you
filed more charges of which he was not informed the day he made the complaint.

That on February 13, 2020, when he was reviewing his accounts, he observed that they had
made some charges which you have not made or authorized in your bank account
***ACCOUNT.1 and associated card number ***ACCOUNT.2, for a value of:

REVOLUT company, 02-13-2020, worth 2,500 euros
REVOLUT Company, 02-13-2020, for a value of 5,500 euros

That same day they have carried out the same procedure in another account that has
with the bank ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 and card number
associated card ***CARD.1 , for a value of:

REVOLUT Company, 02-13-2020, for a value of 2,450 euros
REVOLUT Company, 02-13-2020, for a value of 3,500 euros”

In relation to this claim, TME verified to this Agency that there was a request
tude of (...) on February 13, 2020 at 11:48 a.m. through (...) ***LOCALI-
DAD.4” and that that same day at 5:12 p.m., a request was made for (…) “(…)”.

SIXTH: On October 23, 2020, a claim was received by this Agency
tion made by claimant three (file with reference number E/
09638/2020), directed against TME, after being issued on September 25, 2020,
a duplicate of the SIM card of the line ***TELÉFONO.5, in favor of a third party
sona different from the owner of the line -the claimant party three-.

On September 25, 2020, at 2:40 p.m., the complaining party received three

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

57/106

He received an email sent by movistarcloud@telefonica.com with the Subject:
Confirmation of cancellation in Movistar Cloud.

On that same date, at 2:53 p.m., claimant three responded manifestly
stating that: “I have not canceled the subscription. It was an error or an unauthorized use
do of someone Please contact me. ***PHONE.5”

On September 26, 2020, the three complaining party consulted the application
TME website and found that the owner of the line ***TELÉFONO.5 was Mr. F.-
F.F. with NIE: ***NIE.1.

There is evidence of the recording of the change of ownership of the service requested on the 25th of
September 2020 -with a duration of 02:12 seconds-, by Mr. F.F.F. with NIE:
***NIE.1, in which you provide your personal data (name, surnames and NIE) and the data
personal information of the claimant three (name, surnames, DNI, landline telephone number
and telephone number of the two mobile lines).

Due to these facts, claimant three filed three complaints with Post P.
de las Rozas of the Madrid Civil Guard Command on the 28th and 30th of
September 2020 and October 2, 2020, with certificate numbers XXXXXXXXX,
XXXXXXXXXX and XXXXXXXXXX respectively, in which he stated the following:

In the first complaint:

“A total of three charges have been made on the due card, subtracting
a total of 1200 euros.

A total of six charges have been made to the debit card, subtracting a total
of 3899 euros.

They have also made a transfer to him through BIZUM of 500 euros, destined for
swam to a certain E.E.E. with telephone number ***TELÉFONO.6 and a bank recharge-
ria of 1400 euros.

All this makes a total of 6699 euros.

The complainant states the possible modus operandi of the author: That through a
of a change of name of the holder in his contract, for the line belonging to the number
number ***TELEPHONE.5, with MOVISTAR by telephone, without your consent, the
The possible author made the change, requesting a SIM card from said company. nullifying
the complainant's SIM card.

That after obtaining said SIM card, the author made the bank transactions through
through a mobile phone, because after carrying out any operation with the entity
banking entity, you need the approval via SMS of the telephone number that makes the
operation.

After this, the possible author got into the application of the Santan-
der and through I HAVE FORGOTTEN MY PASSWORD, said bank sends SMS to
phone number associated with the bank account.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

58/106

That the change of holder of the MOVISTAR account, the complainant provides data
of the possible author: F.F.F.***NIE.1.

It also provides a bank transfer of 4,998 euros that was cancelled, which was
addressed to a certain XXXXXXXXXXX, being the account number ES00 0000 0000
0000 0000 0000 of the banking entity CAIXABANK SA.

That the complainant provides the fraudulent MOVISTAR contract with the name and
surnames of the alleged perpetrator, copy of the last invoice of the legal contract of the denouncer,
customer, details of the aborted transfer and the charges made.”

In the second complaint:

“Be a person in these dependencies D. D.D.D. to make the following correction
about the complaint filed.

That in the proceeding entitled PROCEEDINGS TO START FOR A COMPLAINT OF INFRINGEMENT
CRIMINAL MENTION THROUGH APPEARANCE in its eleventh paragraph where it is expressed
sa that all this makes a total of 6699 euros should put that all this makes a
total of 6999 euros.”

In the third complaint:

“(…) That on Thursday 10-01-2020 the complainant appeared at his office in the
Banco Sabadell located in (...) to recover the passwords previously blocked for
be able to operate.

That Banco Sabadell reported that unfortunately a transfer had been issued
fraudulent payment amounting to 7,003.00 euros in the name of H.H.H. to the account
ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 of the banking entity ING reason for which
is forced to report the facts in order to recover the amount defrauded.”

In relation to this claim, TME informed this Agency that, on September 25,
In the month of 2020, there was (...), but it only made the change effective in the line ***TELÉ-
PHONE.5.

SEVENTH: The four complaints filed affect customers of the Mo- brand
view

EIGHTH: TME accounts for the Movistar brand with (...).

TME requires (...).

NINTH: TME counts for the Movistar brand with a (...).

TENTH: TME signs, (...)

.

ELEVEN: In the content of the "(...)", signed with (...), it is provided:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

59/106

(...).

TWELFTH: TME signs,(…).

In the first clause it provides (...).

In the second clause it provides (...):

(...).

THIRTEENTH: On date (...) TME adds a (...)”, which are written in
the following terms:

(…)

FOURTEENTH: The content of (...) provides:

(…)

           RESPONSIBILITY.

  1. (…).
(...).

FIFTEENTH: TME signs with (...)
.

SIXTEENTH: TME sent a (...).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST: Competition.
By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each Authority of
Control, and according to what is established in articles 47, 48, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the AEPD is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.
The allegation referred to the initiation of the sanctioning procedure is dismissed.
because the AEPD has acted in accordance with the general principles of article 3.1
of the LRJSP, among which is the effective service to citizens, good faith,
legitimate expectations or the transparency of administrative action.
Of the participation of the telecommunications operators, and the other interveners
and of the conclusions or agreements reached in the WG and that appear in the
corresponding minutes, it cannot be deduced that the AEPD has validated
do any type of action of TME in relation to the facts object of analysis in the
present procedure.
The AEPD has attributed a series of competencies, powers and functions provided for in
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

60/106

Articles 55 and following of the RGPD that according to article 8 of the LRJSP,
They are inalienable and are exercised by the administrative bodies that have them attributed.
you give as your own
In the exercise of the functions and powers attributed to it by articles 57 and 58 of the
RGPD, controls the application of the RGPD, conducts investigations and imposes, where appropriate,
administrative sanctions which may include administrative fines, and
orders the corresponding corrective measures, according to the circumstances of each
particular case. Thus, you can carry out the investigations you deem appropriate (ar-
Article 67 of the LOPDGDD), after which you can decide to initiate an ex officio procedure
sanctioning party (article 68 LOPDGDD).
In the case examined, the investigations carried out in order to determine the co-
mission of some facts and the scope of these revealed a possible lack
of security measures that has directly affected the duty to maintain confidentiality.
confidentiality of customer data.
Thus, and taking into account the above considerations, no appearance
of legality in the performance of TME can be inferred from the participation in the aforementioned
GT. So much so that, in the allegations, he limited himself to highlighting his participation, but not
did not specify or determine to what extent the AEPD communicated one thing and then did another,
in the sense of what specific aspect he drew from participation in the aforementioned group,
which has subsequently been contradicted by the initiation of this disciplinary proceeding.
SECOND: Applicable regulations.
Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency shall be governed by the provisions of the Regulations
to (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions
dictated in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, on a subsidiary basis, by
the general rules on administrative procedures.”
THIRD: Violation.
The actions outlined in the Background had the purpose of analyzing the
procedures followed to manage SIM change requests by
TME, identifying the vulnerabilities that could exist in the operating procedures
implanted, to detect the causes for which it could be producing
ing these cases, as well as finding points of non-compliance, improvement or adjustment,
to determine responsibilities, reduce risks and increase safety in the workplace.
treatment of the personal data of the affected persons.
The facts declared previously proven, violate article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and
are constitutive of the infringement provided for in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD that we consider
ra very serious infraction the violation of:

“the basic principles for treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9,”

Likewise, it is classified as sanctioned with an administrative fine of 20,000,000.00 euros.
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
as a maximum of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year
higher, opting for the highest amount.
They are also constitutive of the infraction typified in article 72.1.a) of the LO-
PDGDD that considers a very serious infraction for the purposes of the prescription:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

61/106

“The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

Article 75 of the LPACAP refers to the "Instruction Acts" as those necessitated
necessary for the determination, knowledge and verification of the facts under
of which the resolution must be pronounced. Well, the instruction resulted after
the analysis of the evidence practiced and the allegations adduced in accordance with the
seen in articles 76 and 77 of the LPACAP, that TME had documented policies
data protection regulations in which the way of acting of TME and of
those in charge, before the processing of personal data necessary for the provision
tion of the contracted services and throughout their life cycle. However, also
It was proven that adequate safety in the treatment had not been guaranteed.
processing of personal data, taking into account the result produced by the impersonation
tion of identity
The concept of proactive responsibility is linked to the concept of compliance.
regulatory enforcement or compliance, already present in other regulatory areas (we refer to
We refer, for example, to the provision of article 31 bis of the Penal Code).

Thus, article 24 of the RGPD determines that “1. Considering the nature, the
scope, context and purposes of the treatment as well as the risks of different probabilities.
ity and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person responsible
of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to guarantee
czar and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with this Regulation. Gave-
These measures will be reviewed and updated as necessary.
2. When they are provided in relation to treatment activities, between
the measures mentioned in section 1 shall include the application, by the res-
responsible for the treatment, of the appropriate data protection policies”.
Proactive responsibility implies the implementation of a compliance model and
management of the RGPD that determines the generalized fulfillment of the obligations
in terms of data protection. It includes the analysis, planning, establishment
maintenance, updating and control of data protection policies in
an organization, especially if it is a large company, -understood as the set-
set of guidelines that govern the performance of an organization, practices, procedures
and tools, among others-, from privacy by design and by default, which
guarantee compliance with the RGPD, that prevent the materialization of risks and
that allow the controller to demonstrate compliance.
Pivot on risk management. As established in Report 0064/2020
of the Legal Office of the AEPD shows the metamorphosis of a system that has
gone from being reactive to becoming proactive, since "at the present time,
It must be borne in mind that the RGPD has meant a paradigm shift when approaching
give the regulation of the right to the protection of personal data, which becomes the foundation
be based on the principle of "accountability" or "proactive responsibility" as
The AEPD has repeatedly pointed out (Report 17/2019, among many others) and it is re-
takes in the Statement of Reasons of the LOPDGDD: "the greatest novelty presented by the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is the evolution of a model based, fundamentally, on
in the control of compliance to another that rests on the principle of responsibility
active, which requires a prior assessment by the person in charge or by the person in charge of the
treatment of the risk that could be generated by the treatment of personal data.
personnel to, based on said assessment, adopt the appropriate measures”.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

62/106

It requires a conscious, committed, active and diligent attitude. consciousness
assumes knowledge of your organization by the data controller and
of how it is affected by data protection and the risks inherent to the
personal data processing; Commitment involves the will to comply and the
be truly responsible for the implementation of protection policies
of data in the organization; the active attitude is related to proactivity,
effectiveness, efficiency and operability; and diligence is the care, zeal and dedication
tion put into compliance.
Based on the foregoing, it can be affirmed that, from the instruction of the procedure, as
as inferred from the Proven Facts and considering the context of article 24 of the
RGPD in relation to TME, it was verified, among others, the implementation of a model
most effective phishing risk avoidance, review, enforcement, and
improvement of the security measures applied in the different channels aimed at
ensure the procedure of identification and delivery of the SIM card, in order to
prevent the materialization of fraud. Also, the immediate reaction to the
described facts and the ability of the operator to demonstrate compliance. By
all of the above, we focus the facts on the infraction derived from article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with the principle of proactive responsibility itself, it is the
The person responsible for the treatment must determine what the security measures are.
to be implemented, since only the latter has in-depth knowledge of its organization.
tion, the treatments it carries out, the risks associated with them and the
the precise security measures to be implemented to make effective the principle of in-
integrity and confidentiality.
However, it has been proven that the measures implemented by TME were insufficient.
and not only because they have been overcome and the transfer of personal data
nals to a third party.
In a non-exhaustive way and by way of example, we will look at (...), a previous step
in many cases to obtain a duplicate SIM card.
Thus, from the documentation sent by TME it is inferred that the personal data associated
two to the security policy are (...) be formulated with respect to some data that co-
know only the operator and his client. No supplementary requirement was required.
Dear.
We have to mean that, in the case of claimant three, it was enough that the sub-
planter will provide the (...), of the claimant party three to seek the change of
ownership. (...).
Likewise, (…).
On the other hand, and in terms of the means used to identify the owner in person,
owner of the line in order to obtain a duplicate SIM card, (...).
Especially significant is the case of the complaining party one in which (...) for
get the duplicate SIM card. Thus, from the presumed representative and impersonator
is accepted (...).

As for the change in the offending type that the AEPD had been habitually imputing in
the cases in which the fraudsters managed to supplant the identity of the clients
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

63/106

for different purposes (article 6.1 RGPD), and the imputation to TME of the responsibility
reliability of the result of the fraud carried out by a third party, we must indicate that the
AEPD has attributed, by virtue of articles 57 and 58 of the RGPD, information functions
investigation, as appropriate, regarding the claims presented to the
effect.
In the case now examined, the AEPD, after carrying out the investigations
timely and in relation to a series of specific facts that it considers proven,
incardinates them in the offending type that it considers appropriate, according to the application
tion and interpretation of the regulations, motivating such action in a detailed and sufficient manner.
tuation. And it is that the AEPD, like the rest of the public powers, is linked to the
principle of legality (article 9.1 and 9.3 Constitution -CE-) that implies the application and
interpretation of the norms according to the assumption of specific fact that concurs
in each case.
TME cites in its defense a series of resolutions issued by the AEPD. As well,
in PS/00114/2019, he was sanctioned for contracting without accrediting the representation
sitting. Regarding PS/00453/2019, it was sanctioned for the fraudulent hiring of
new telephone lines, without in that case producing a duplicate of a
SIM card with respect to a pre-existing telephone line belonging to another holder
(since it was the contracting of a new line that lacked a headline
previous). Finally, PS/00235/2020 was sanctioned for lack of diligence in the application
cation of the principle of legality.
It should be noted that TME does not explain to what extent your rights are affected
of defense and procedural for subsuming the facts in article 5.1 f) and not in the
article 6.1 of the RGPD.
Alleges a proscribed legal uncertainty or the violation of the right of defense, without
However, the AEPD has guaranteed the rights provided for in article 64.2.f) and 89.2
of the LPACAP, among which is the right to make allegations, without,
therefore, it can plead helplessness. He has been able to allege and contribute to the procedure
what you have agreed to by law, without any limitation on the part of the AEPD. All
the allegations made to this effect have been considered and answered.
Furthermore, let us remember that treating personal data without a legal basis,
that is to say, without the legitimizing assumptions foreseen in the aforementioned precept, it has as
consequently an unlawful treatment, that is, contrary to paragraph 1 of article 5 of the
GDPR. At that time, the same precept that is imputed in the case analyzed and, in any
In any case, in the face of a hypothetical imputation of article 6.1, as TME maintains, also
Article 85.3 a) of the RGPD would also apply. Ultimately, TME does not determine
as their procedural situation may be aggravated by said legal qualification, instead
gar of which it maintains, beyond affirming that the Agency incurs in arbitrariness.
On the other hand, it is perfectly admissible that the AEPD has considered the violation
tion of a certain precept in the conviction that it is more in line with the
events that occur, without this action being able to be described as arbitrary, especially
when properly motivated. At the beginning of this FD we already indicated that the actions
The Agency's hearings were intended to analyze the procedures applied to the
SIM card change requests. The SIM card constitutes the physical support through
through which the personal data of the affected person is accessed. But
its provision and control, access to the owner's personal data, as well as
such as the possible use or uses by third parties, becomes a threat that can
have devastating effects on the lives of these people.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

64/106

Thus, the fraud known as "SIM Swapping" is a criminal technique
consisting of obtaining a duplicate of the SIM card associated with a telephone line
ownership of a user, in order to impersonate their identity to obtain access
so to your social networks, instant messaging applications, banking applications,
rias or electronic commerce, in order to interact and carry out operations in your
name, authenticating by means of a username and password previously taken from
that user, as well as with the double factor authentication when receiving the confirmation SMS.
mation in their own mobile terminal where they will have inserted the duplicate SIM card.
It should be noted that in the first phase of this type of scam the impersonator considers
fraudulently mislead login details or online banking credentials
of the client, but he needs to be able to know the verification code, second factor of increase
authentication, to be able to execute any operation. The moment you achieve
the duplicate SIM card already also has access to this second authentication factor.
tion and, therefore, from that moment you can carry out the acts of patrimonial disposition
nial you want. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the operator to establish certain requirements
sites that, although a quick reading may seem very strict, a reading
much more carefully it has been shown that they were not. With which, the scam or su-
plantation, which apparently could seem complex and difficult, it is observed that it is not
It has been both due to the inadequacy of the security measures at the time of surveillance
that it is the owner of the SIM card or the person authorized by him who requests the
duplicate.
FOURTH: Treatment of personal data and data controller
Article 4 of the RGPD, under the heading "Definitions", provides the following:
“1) “personal data”: all information about an identified or identified natural person.
testable (“the interested party”); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;
2) «processing»: any operation or set of operations carried out on data
personal data or sets of personal data, either by automated procedures
ized or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation,
adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission
sion, dissemination or any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection,
limitation, suppression or destruction”.
7) “responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person, authori-
public entity, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes
and means of treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines
undermines the purposes and means of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the criteria
specific for their appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the
Member states".
8) “in charge of the treatment” or “in charge”: the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the person in charge.
ble of the treatment;
TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U., is responsible for the processing of
data referred to in the exposed antecedents, since according to the definition
of article 4.7 of the RGPD is the one that determines the purpose and means of the treatments
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

65/106

made with the purposes indicated in its Privacy Policy: In Movistar tra-
We store the data of the client or user for the provision of the service, as well as for
other purposes that the same allows or authorizes in the terms informed in the
this Privacy Policy or in the specific Conditions of each Product or
Contracted Movistar service.
(...); CATHPONE-NET, S.L and THADER TELECOMUNICACIONES S.L, act in the
status of treatment managers.
In addition, the issuance of a duplicate SIM card implies the processing of data
of its owner since any person will be considered an identifiable natural person.
person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
you an identifier (article 4.1) of the RGPD).
In this sense, it should be clarified that, inside the mobile terminal, the card is inserted
SIM. It is a smart card, in physical format and of reduced dimensions, which contains
It has a chip in which the service key of the subscriber or subscriber is stored.
gives to identify itself to the network, that is, the customer's mobile phone number
MSISDN (Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network - Mobile Station Network
Integrated Services Digital-), as well as the personal identification number of the
subscriber IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity - International Identity of the
mobile subscriber-) but can also provide other types of data such as information
tion on the telephone list or the calls and messages list.
The SIM card can be inserted into more than one mobile terminal, provided that it is
is released or is from the same company.
In Spain, since 2007, through the Unique Additional Provision of the Law
25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to communications
electronic networks and public communications networks (hereinafter, Law 25/2007),
requires that holders of all SIM cards, whether prepaid or contract, be
be duly identified and registered. This is important because the identification
cation of the subscriber will be essential to register the SIM card, which entails
It will be necessary that when obtaining a duplicate of this, the person requesting it must
also identify themselves and that their identity coincides with that of the owner.
In short, both the personal data (name, surnames and DNI) that are processed to issue
Get a duplicate SIM card as your own SIM (Subscriber Identity Module) card
that uniquely and unequivocally identifies the subscriber in the network, are character data
personal data, and its treatment must be subject to data protection regulations.
cough.
FIFTH: Allegations adduced to the Resolution Proposal.
We proceed to respond to them according to the order set out by TME:

PREVIOUS: ON THE INITIATION OF THE PUNISHING PROCEEDINGS.

In Antecedent Four we made reference to the four requirements of
information addressed to TME on different dates that were the object of the co-
corresponding notification, consequently, it cannot allege its ignorance
I lie.

The SAN of the Contentious-administrative Chamber, sec 1ª, 10-17-07 (rec
180/06) justifies the convenience of the preliminary investigation actions

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

66/106

in relation to sanctioning procedures stating that: “It is about
that due to the seriousness and transcendence that the exercise of the power
sanctioning, since the legal status of someone who is subjected to an experiment
sanctioning tooth, for this single circumstance, can be negatively
mind affected, it is necessary that the decision to initiate the procedure
sanctioning party is founded and based on solid reasons that require such
initiation”.

That is, in order to allow the sanctioning body to know the facts
predictably offending parties, the concurrent circumstances and the people
intervening, it is allowed to carry out said actions or inquiries
prior assessments, insofar as they are necessary and timely to verify, to what extent
point, there is a rational basis to understand that the infringing act occurred, and im-
put it on a certain person.

Regarding the violation of the principle of good faith and legitimate expectations,
your appreciation is up for it.

The principle of legitimate expectations, contained in article 3.1.e) of the LRJSP,
principle that, as the jurisprudence -SSTS of December 28 has reiterated
2012 (Rec. 273/2009), July 3, 2013 (Rec. 2511/2011), among many others-
"cannot be invoked to create, maintain or extend, within the scope of the Law
public cho, situations contrary to the legal system", being the plaintiff
responsible for the infractions appreciated in the Resolution Proposal, to
tenor of article 28.1 of the LRJSP.

In relation to this principle, the SAN, of April 29, 2019, RJCA 2019\449, indicates
ca: According to what was declared by the aforementioned judgment of July 6
2012 (RJ 2012, 7760) the principle of legitimate expectations implies that "the
public authority cannot adopt measures that are contrary to the
hope induced by the reasonable stability in the decisions of the former, and
on the basis of which individuals have adopted certain decisions
nes. (...) as stated in the judgment of July 3, 2012 (RJ 2012,
11345) (appeal 6558/2010): "(...) The protection of legitimate expectations does not
encompasses any kind of subjective psychological conviction in particular, meaning
do only that <confidence> on aspects that can be protected
concrete, based on signs or external facts produced by the Administration
nistration sufficiently conclusive..." But from the decisions of the
this Chamber, it must be concluded in an important and relevant element to confirm
ensure legitimate expectations, namely, that the specific action expected
in that trust is in accordance with the Law (judgment last cited-
da), that is, it is necessary that the performance of the Administration, with its con-
conduct, induce the administrator "to believe that the action he develops is
lawful and adequate in Law" (judgment of July 3, 2012, issued in the
appeal 6558/2010). In the same sense, it has been declared that it cannot
rely on legitimate expectations "the mere expectation of an invariability
of the circumstances", as stated in the judgment of March 22,
2012 (appeal 2998/2008), in which it is concluded that it cannot be maintained
irreversible behavior that is considered unfair.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

67/106

In short, the participation of TME in the GT does not modify the responsibility
which is now charged. Therefore, due to the fact that he participated in
a GT whose objective is to tackle such a specific criminal activity (“SIM
Swapping”), does not prevent that once an infraction is verified, it must
be sanctioned

Indeed, the competencies, functions and powers attributed to the
AEPD, are exercised in accordance with the legal system following the "Principles
General” of article 3 of the LRJSP, among which are the objectivity
integrity and transparency of administrative action, which apply to the AEPD, in
its status as a public law entity, specifically, an administrative authority
statewide independent investigation, article 109 LRJSP and 44.1 of the
LOPDGDD, with legal personality and full public and private capacity,
that acts with full independence from the public powers in the exercise of
its functions.

The condition of MSD victim is not discussed, but the unauthorized access to
a duplicate SIM card, which is considered particularly serious since
enables identity theft with a purpose, to interact and
perform transactions on behalf of a third party.

I. ABOUT THE FACTS GIVING RISE TO THE INITIATION.

Question of criminal prejudiciality.-

There is no place for the deducted request because the information was already required during
during the investigation of the procedure and it was found that there was no identity
of subject, fact and foundation (article 31.1 LRJSP), budget without which
criminal prejudiciality does not concur.

Article 31.1 of the LRJSP establishes that "the perpetrators may not be sanctioned
those that have been penalized or administratively, in the cases in which
appreciate identity of the subject, fact and foundation".

In the same sense, article 77.4 of the LPACAP provides: "In the procedures
penalties, the declared facts proven by resolution
Firm criminal judicial decisions will bind the Public Administrations
regarding the sanctioning procedures that they substantiate".

Thus, the SAN of September 25, 2019, of the Contentious-Administrative Chamber
nistrative, Section 1 (Rec. 1122/2018) determines that: “The triple identity of
subject, fact and foundation between the administrative infraction and the infraction
that could correspond constitutes an inescapable requirement so that
the defendant Administration is obliged to suspend the procedure
sanctioning administrative proceeding”.

In this same judgment, in which the request for suspension of
sion of the appeal for criminal prejudiciality, an identical assumption arises
now examined, where "The recurring society is founded on the existence of
criminal prejudiciality in the existence of two complaints filed with the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

68/106

National Police. Well, with the above, in the first place, it is not credited
If the processing of said complaints continues or they have been archived, or if
want, if preliminary proceedings have been initiated by any jurisdictional body,
and, on the other hand, there is no identity of the subject, since the offending subject is obvious
that it would not be the same. Thus, in relation to infractions of the LOPD (LA
LAW 4633/1999) the controller is the AVON entity, while the controller
criminal saber of a possible crime of usurpation of marital status or fraud would be
the third party who would have passed himself off as the complainant, so that with the di-
cho is sufficient to dismiss the ground of challenge that we are
analyzing. The same can be said with respect to the preliminary investigations
mitan in the Court of Instruction no. 11 in Madrid, for an attack on the sys-
AVON computer issues.

The AEPD has not ignored the content of the investigations that are being carried out
carried out, but it has been reported about people criminally
responsible for the reported crimes and has verified that he did not
There are legal assumptions to apply the precept invoked. The Senten-
claims (no. 2249/2016 and no. 1907/2017), refer to procedures
judicial in different orders, criminal and contentious-administrative. In this
case, the circumstances are different, we are in the administrative process and before the
criminal court order. In fact, TME literally acknowledges that “there is no
identity of subjects.

In short, with respect to the facts denounced and those that have been the object of the
disciplinary proceedings, it is clearly noted that there is no concurrence between some
and others the triple identity expressed, because in this sanctioning file it
that is elucidated is, if TME has carried out the treatment of the data of
personal character respecting the principles related to the treatment (article
5.1.f) RGPD), an issue outside the purpose of the criminal proceedings that are substantiated
hundred, which, on the other hand, protect different legal assets (for example:
article 248.2 of the Penal Code in relation to article 249 of the same text
legal).

FIRST. OF THE CONDITION OF TME AS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TRA-
PROCESSING AND DELIMITATION OF PROCESSING OPERATIONS.

The Agency is surprised by the fact that it claims that we have not delimited the
operations or treatment activities when the Legal Basis
(FD) Fourth of the Motion for a Resolution is headed “Treatment of
personal data and data controller” that says: “(…) the issuance of
a duplicate SIM card supposes the treatment of the personal data of
its owner” and identifies the person responsible for this “TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPA-
ÑA, S.A.U, is responsible for the data processing referred to in the foregoing.
exposed background”.

In the Third FD of this Resolution, the object of the actions was outlined:
analyze the procedures followed to manage change requests
of SIM by TME, not by other entities, such as financial ones, which
voca.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

69/106

The SIM card identifies a phone number and this number, in turn, identifies
fica to its owner. In this sense, the Judgment of the CJEU in case C -
101/2001(Lindqvist) of 6.11.2003, section 24, Rec. 2003 p. I-12971: “The
concept of "personal data" used in article 3, paragraph 1, of the Directive
tiva 95/46 includes, according to the definition in article 2,
letter a), of said Directive "all information about an identifiable natural person
identifiable." This concept includes, without a doubt, the name of a person.
ring next to your phone number or other information regarding your conditions.
tions of work or his hobbies”.

Also, this opinion is singled out in relation to telephone devices.
mobile phone that allow the location of the interested party, in Opinion 13/2011
about geolocation services on smart mobile devices
(WP185 document):

“Smart mobile devices. Smart mobile devices are
are inextricably linked to natural persons. Normally there is
direct and indirect identification. First of all, the operators of
telecommunications that provide access to the mobile Internet and through
GSM network normally have a record with the name, address and
the bank details of each customer, together with several unique numbers of the
device, such as IMEI and IMSI. (…)”

In short, the questioned treatment activity has been the procedure
specific for the change of SIM called for the Movistar brand “Cam-
SIM card bio”.

It refers to the CEPD Guidelines 07/2020, and the CJEU Judgment of
July 29, 2019 to highlight that the status of controller of the traffic-
processing may be limited to a particular stage of processing and that
cannot be held responsible for illegitimate accesses occurring at sea.
of the provision of services of any company that verifies the identity
your customers via mobile phone. Well, we insist, that
The only thing that has been questioned in this procedure is the adequacy of the
security measures implemented by TME for the correct identification
of customers at the time of issuing the duplicate SIM card.

SECOND. ON THE ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES
YOU GO APPROPRIATE.

2.1

    TECHNICAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES IMPLEMENTED
 
 

It was proven in the instruction of the procedure that there was no guarantee
ensured adequate security in the processing of personal data,
due account of the result produced by identity theft. Namely,
a third party managed to gain access to the personal data of the holders of the
lines without the security measures that TME claimed existed, hu-
They could have prevented it.

Therefore, and in view of the result produced, we were not facing a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

70/106

demonstration by TME of compliance with the principles relating to the
processing of affected personal data.

Regarding the fact that the Agency does not clarify at any time why it considers the
contrary to the Regulation, the RGPD is based on the principle of res-
active responsibility and in relation to the previous regulation of the Organic Law
15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Royal Decree 1720/2007, of December 21, which approves the Re-
regulation of development of the Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
protection of personal data, where it existed in regard to
security a list or checklist system, now he is responsible for the treatment
and in charge, where appropriate, who must adapt the implementation of
security measures to the specific type of treatment carried out, and precisely
therefore, not because of the non-existence of security measures - a circumstance that
concurs in this case - but because of those that TME had, they were not
adequate to avoid the events that occurred.

Similarly, as a result of the investigation of the procedure, it has been verified
actively and continuously applying new measures to promote
view and ensure data protection in the issuance of duplicates
or even in other treatments such as the "Change of owner" operation, whose
The last update has occurred on August 28, 2021.

TME has been found to improve the effectiveness of all procedures.
commanding actions, corrections, introducing changes and reinforcements to improve
continually reduce the provision of this service or others related to it.

It has implemented an accountability policy and has made an effort to demonstrate
bring its fulfillment. It has documented the decisions adopted in relation to
tion with the treatment, audits and reviews the security of the information and has
provided the Agency with information regarding the safety of the treatment.

From all this, from the attached documentation and as we analyze in the FD
Third, although compliance with the principle of responsibility is concluded
proactive, notwithstanding all of the above, administrative responsibility is
required according to the Proven Facts and FD of this Resolution.

Recital 78 RGPD declares "... the data controller must
adopt internal policies…” and article 24.2 establishes “When they are pro-
portioned … the application … data protection policies”, and that go
beyond the reference to the formal aspect of the existence of a document
entitled "Data Protection Policy" where the mere reproduction is made
formal tion of the articles of the RGPD and is reduced to a mere declaration of the
Willingness of the person in charge to commit to regulatory compliance.

Therefore, the current internal security policy applied by TME is
consistent with the PSD2 Directive that requires the adoption of “authentication” systems.
enhanced client information, despite not being included in its scope of application
(article 2).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

71/106

The same statement must be made regarding the "Ex officio inspection plan
on distance contracting in telecommunications and commercial operators
energy cializers” that contains recommendations on “Verification
identification of the client's identity in subsequent processes” and that TME applies to
its procedures:

In the Customer Area of the website, customers identify themselves and authenticate
through user code and password. Because a client can
have contracted more than one line, the user code can be numbered
line number (access only to the data associated with the queried line) or DNI
(access to all the data associated with the lines contracted by the user)
river) In the Customer Service departments (telephone channel) of the
different companies, the client is usually identified by full name,
DNI and a third random data such as the address to which the invoices are sent
or bank account number, although many companies provide
a password (at the request of the client) that must be indicated to pro-
give access to the data.

Regarding the following statements:

1.- TME (...), it is only possible to request it in person at the store.

Let us remember that in the case of the complaining party three there was
(...) and made the change effective on the line ***TELEPHONE.5.
 
3.- (…). We refer to the proven facts that have affected
the complaining party three.

2.2 REVIEW AND UPDATING OF TECHNICAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES
IMPLEMENTED NIZATIVES

Undoubtedly, in the investigation of the file it has been revealed
review of technical and organizational measures.

TME has reinforced the operations applicable to the different channels and has introduced
improvements have been made in order to prevent the recurrence of similar events. Dis-
puts (...).

It also recognizes the implementation of (...) systems.

All these measures and constant adaptation efforts based on the
new risks will be considered in the condition of “mitigation”.
you”.

2.3 ASSESSMENT OF THE ADEQUACY, TIMELINESS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF
THE TECHNICAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES IMPLEMENTED

The cases declared by TME during the 2019 and 2020 financial years are a re-
reflection of the adequacy, timeliness and effectiveness of the measures adopted and im-
supplemented after the start of the actions carried out by the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

72/106

Agency.

TME recognizes that fraud has decreased by 71% in that period. Remember-
We state that the first requirement of the AEPD is dated January 13,
2020.

If we look at the data provided by TME, the figures by themselves express
determine the effectiveness of recently adopted security measures,
due precisely to the introduction of others other than the pre-existing ones, which
have been more appropriate, timely and effective.

(...).

He reproaches the Agency for not stopping to assess these aspects.

Precisely, the imputation that is finally made against TME in Pro-
Resolution is referred -only- to article 5.1.f) and not to 5.2
GDPR, as initially considered in the initiation agreement. This alter-
ration has had a direct effect on the sanction that was initially considered
and that amounted to 2,000,000'00. And this is so, due to the assessment made (we
we refer to the Third FD and to section 2.1 of the allegations) by the Agency.

The security measures must guarantee that in our organization, or
in those of those with which it is subcontracted, personal data
are only used for the legitimate purpose for which they were collected, except for possible ex-
legal exceptions. Periodic checks must be carried out to verify
and assess the effectiveness of the security measures that we have implemented
do.

And of course there is an application cost, which requires time,
which in turn must be in accordance with the regulations and the state of the art,
but it is that, to select the appropriate security measures, the res-
responsible must be based on the risks to natural persons, as well as on
what is reasonable and technically possible. Article 28.2.a) of LOPDGDD
establishes some assumptions in which it already warns that it is necessary to contemplate
take greater risks than those that the person in charge could estimate if he only had
take into account their own interests (identity usurpation, economic damages,
monkeys…).

It must be remembered that the right to data protection derives from the EC,
that establishes the limitation of the use of informatics by the Law to guarantee
honor and personal and family privacy of citizens and the full exercise
exercise of their rights (article 18.4).

The Constitutional Court stated in its Judgment 94/1998, of May 4, that
We are faced with a fundamental right to data protection by the
that the person is guaranteed control over their data, any data
personal, and on their use and destination, to avoid illicit traffic of the same
mos or harmful to the dignity and rights of those affected; thus,
The right to data protection is configured as a faculty of the citizen

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

73/106

harm to object to certain personal data being used to
purposes other than the one that justified its obtaining.

For its part, in Judgment 292/2000, of November 30, it considers it
as an autonomous and independent right that consists of a power of dis-
position and control over personal data that empowers the person to
decide which of these data to provide to a third party, be it the State or a
particular, or which can this third party collect, and that also allows the individual
viduo to know who owns these personal data and for what, being able to oppose-
be to that possession or use.

Regarding the certification it holds for having implemented a SGCP based on
endorsed in the UNE 19601 Standard, and given that it contains surveillance and con-
control suitable to prevent crimes and to significantly reduce the risk
to commit them, the AEPD takes it into account in the condition of "mitigating".

Finally, the AEPD has not said that TME applies a policy called
Know Your Costumer, but these policies are known as such. The ther-
mino refers to the processes of identification or identity verification
that companies, especially financial institutions, but also
of telecommunications, establish to guarantee the identity of the client.

THIRD. OF THE RESPONSIBILITY OF TME IN CASES OF SU-
PLANTATION OF IDENTITY OF THE THREE CLAIMANTS

3.1 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE DATA PROCESSOR

Regardless of the considerations that TME makes about its due diligence
in the selection and delivery of instructions to the supplier, the legal precepts mentioned
tioned to dismiss their responsibility are the following:

- First of all, article 28 RGPD. In section 3.c) and 10. That is, according to
TME, the RGPD itself provides that when the person in charge of the treatment treats the
personal data in breach of the instructions of the person in charge, becomes
in responsible.

In relation to this argument, it should be noted that in this file there was never
the possibility of a company resorting to outsourcing techniques has been discussed.
lization (“outsourcing”) for the management of certain processes. I do not know
objects to the consideration of "in charge of the treatment" of the companies of
which TME uses for said management.

Indeed, it has been proven throughout the investigation that TME has found
recommended the management by certain companies of the following activities
lives:

o THADER TELECOMUNICACIONES S.L and CATHPONE-NET, S.L, ac-
would act as distributors in physical establishments, to capture
tion of clients and execution by these of certain procedures in
their contractual relationship with the operator (among them, the issuance of du-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

74/106

SIM card applications).

or (...), as a management company of a call attention center (“call
center”) through which the telephone attention to customers would be carried out.
operator tees. As far as this file is concerned, through said
attention, steps of contractual relevance could be carried out, such as the
change of ownership of a telephone line.

In relation to these aspects, and the invocation by TME of the article
28 RGPD, it is necessary to indicate initially that the obligations must be defined
established in article 28.3.d) (adopt the necessary measures by the
in charge of the treatment) of the provision established in section 10 of the
same item.

Indeed, the latter establishes the following:

"Notwithstanding the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84, if a manager
of the treatment infringes this Regulation when determining the purposes and
means of treatment, will be considered responsible for the treatment with
regarding said treatment.

From the beginning it must be ruled out that this precept allows the attribution of
sanctioning responsibility of the person in charge. Firstly, because it clarifies that
the provisions of the same is “without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82,
83 and 84” (RGPD sanctioning regime). And, above all, because the consequence
legal provision in article 28.10 is not the sanctioning one, but the one of
rar the person in charge as responsible for the treatment. The conclusion is logical
since if he violates the Regulations "when determining the means and ends
of the treatment”, must be considered as responsible.

That is not what has happened in this file. In fact, there is no
accredited that none of the three companies has carried out actions that
involved a "determination of ends and means", but, in the words of
the TME itself, would have failed to comply with any of the instructions issued by
It is in the customer identification processes.

Consequently, in no case can article 28.10 RGPD be invoked to
a presumed attribution of responsibility to those in charge, who also im-
apply the exoneration of the person responsible for the treatment (TME according to what has been
given proven in this file).

-

Invokes CEPD Guidelines 07/2020. Specifically, section 9:

This section is limited to determining, in a generic way, that both the responsible
as the person in charge of the treatment can be sanctioned for the non-compliance
compliance with the provisions of the RGPD. Nothing adds to what is already established in the
internal regulations (LOPDGDD), in which article 70.1.a) and b) includes the res-
responsible and in charge of the treatments among the sanctionable subjects.

The mere existence of both figures does not displace the manager all the responsibility.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

75/106

reliability in the processing of personal data. Proceed now, therefore-
elucidate if in this case, if the obligations of the person responsible have been violated.
ble or manager.

In this regard, it was already indicated in the Motion for a Resolution that in the three
so, those in charge act on behalf of TME, in the case of (...).

That is to say, the instrumental intervention of those in charge has as its purpose the
initiation or modification of contractual relations between TME and users
end users of electronic communications services. In this regard,
It is convenient to go to the sectoral legislation, whose LGTEL establishes the following:

o Electronic communications services are considered
of "services of general interest". Let us not forget that through these ser-
vices, connectivity to services as important as the
landline, mobile or Internet access. (article 2.1 LGTEL)

o The marketing and distribution channels referred to in this ex-
pending (points of sale and call center) are established
established for the exercise by the end users of the relationships
contractual obligations with the operator. Therefore, they refer to the exercise
of the rights that correspond to them as users against the company
sa service provider.

o In relation to this aspect, the LGTEL grants a specific nature
ca qualified to the rights of end users in this sector. Tie-
ne the consideration of "obligations of a public nature", according to
with what is indicated in Title III of the Law, whose Chapter V deals with the
end user rights.

o Likewise, the obligatory respect for the protection of personal data
of users in this sector (article 41 LGTEL) also appears within
inside the “obligations of a public nature” within the sector of the
electronic communications (Title III, Chapter IV).

The processing operations that are the subject of this file are related to
with the exercise of the rights that as end users of community services
electronic cations are being made by the operator's customers. In this sense, already
we have seen that the regulations of this sector confer a public nature both to the
provision of the service itself (“services of general interest”) and the specific regime
co protection of users (“obligations of a public nature”).

Within the specific rights of this sector, the regulatory regulation is
found in the Bill of Rights of the user of electronic communications services
case (Royal Decree 899/2009, of May 22). In its article 5 (Celebration of contra-
cough) the following is specified:

"two. Operators will not be able to access an end user's line without their consent.
express and unequivocal sentiment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

76/106

It should be remembered that the facts prosecuted in this file have consisted
precisely in that, that is, in the improper issuance of SIM cards that
have allowed third parties outside the line to access it. It is therefore affected
the right of the end user that is considered a public obligation
co.

But not only that, but in attracting customers, and particularly in ex-
requesting SIM cards, it is necessary to comply with the provisions of Law 25/2007. This law
It is dictated in use of state competence in matters of public security, and has
in order to guarantee that the operators conserve and make available to the Forces
and Security Bodies, the data relating to the holders of community services
electronic calls and their traffic data. Article 2 establishes the following:

“They are recipients of the obligations related to the conservation of im-
established in this Law the operators that provide communications services
electronic devices available to the public or exploit public communications networks,
in the terms established in Law 32/2003, of November 3, General of
Telecommunications.”

Article 3 and, specifically for prepaid lines, the single additional provision,
establishes that all end users holding services must be identified
of electronic communications.

As has been proven in this file, the points of sale and centers of
answering telephone calls were used for the issuance of duplicates of
SIM cards. For these purposes, it would be applicable, in the identification of clients, the
mentioned Law 25/2007. This Law, at the time of its approval, was aware
of the possibility of using external entities in the processes of contracting
notwithstanding which, in any case, it established the operators as obligatory subjects.
gados. A possible failure in the identification by a distributor would be in all
case attributable to the operator.

Therefore, they are involved in the management of clients by the operators.
telecommunications carriers, aspects directly related to services
of general interest, obligations of a public nature and, above all, public security.
public of the State. This precludes considering that the service operator can be exonerated
electronic communications services from liability for the mere fact of having
outsourced its customer service channel services.

In this sense, in the provision of electronic communications services, the
operator would always have had the option of providing the service itself
customer service, instead of resorting to outsourcing techniques. The use of a
another option cannot cause liability to arise when they are involved.
two aspects of such a relevant nature.

For the rest, according to the documentation provided by TME, it is observed that in the
contracts it maintains with those in charge (both THADER and CATPHONE for a
hand, as with XXXXXX, on the other) is included (...).

Indeed, in (...), it is indicated:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

77/106

(...).

The same clause appears in the distribution contracts signed by TME with THA-
DER and CATPHONE.

Based on the foregoing, the allegation adduced must be dismissed and
TME is considered to be responsible for guaranteeing the security and confidentiality
of the personal data processed. Therefore, without prejudice to the obligations
established in other laws, the treatments carried out by TME must comply with the
data protection regulations.

3.2 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BANKING ENTITIES

While these entities are responsible for processing the data of their
clients, they have the same obligations as those indicated up to now for the
operators referring to compliance with the RGPD and the LOPDGDD, and also the derivatives
of Royal Decree-Law 19/2018, of November 23, on payment services and other
urgent financial measures.

II. ON THE FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST. ON THE ALLEGED INFRINGEMENT THAT CONTINUES
BEING COMMITTED BY TME: VIOLATION OF THE
PRINCIPLE OF TYPICITY

It is true that the Agency recognized that “TME (…) in which the
way of acting of TME and those in charge” but also the fact that,
despite its existence, the infringement occurred.

1.1 ABOUT THE CONDUCT OF TME: IN NO CASE COULD IT CONSIDER
DERARSE SUBSUMABLE IN ARTICLE 5.1 F) RGPD.
 
The incardination of the facts in precept 5.1.f) RGPD, has been the subject of
analysis in the Third FD.

Regarding the infallibility alleged by TME, it should be noted that a
obligation of result, but of activity, but to evaluate said activity and
implementation of measures and their consideration as "adequate" is inevitable.
It is possible to analyze the methods used by the third party to illicitly access the
duplication process, the safeguards implemented by TME and the unavoidable-
mind, the result. These three elements are the ones that will determine the suitability
equation to risk and not as TME intends to focus the debate on whether it is infa-
ble or not your system.

The risk approach and the flexible risk model imposed by the GDPR -
starting from the double configuration of security as a relative principle
to the treatment and an obligation for the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment.
in no case does it impose the infallibility of the measures, but rather their

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

78/106

constant equation to a risk, which, as in the case examined, is true
high, probable and not negligible, high and with a very significant impact on the
rights and freedoms of citizens.

1.2 ON THE DRAFTING OF THE REGULATION THAT RESULTS FROM APPLICATION
CATION: UNDETERMINED LEGAL CONCEPTS THAT CONTRIBUTE
YEN TO INCREASE THE LEGAL INSECURITY AND DEFENSE OF
TME.

It should be noted that, in the Law of the European Union (EU), the protection of
data has been recognized as a specific fundamental right. I will be-
taken in article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, as well as in
Article 8 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. In view of
rapid technological advances, the EU adopted new legislation in 2016
to adapt data protection regulations to the digital age. The GDPR in-
entered into force in May 2018 and in article 4 it provides a series of “Definitions
tions” or certain legal concepts, among which are not included the
invoked by TME: adequate security, technical and organizational measures
appropriate or level of security appropriate to the risk.

Indeed, we are dealing with indeterminate legal concepts, concepts
abstract, which can only be concretized in its practical application. For
application of these concepts, the Agency has made a well-founded assessment
in technical criteria and logical reasoning developed in the FD that
support this Resolution and that, in that margin of appreciation, allow
foresee, with sufficient certainty, the sanctioned conduct.

Reference must be made to a precision made by the Constitutional Court
tional in Order 100/2001, of April 26:

According to the doctrine of this Court, the right to the principle of legality
of art. 25.1 CE, which includes the requirement of certainty in the prediction
termination of punishable conduct, is not incompatible with the use
tion by the legislator of indeterminate legal concepts, whose meaning
the latter has to be inferred by the interpreter through a systemic
theme of all the elements that make up the standard, taking into account the fi-
purpose and basis of the same (SSTC 69/1989, of April 20, FJ
1; 305/1993, of October 25, FJ 5; 26/1994, of January 27, FJ
4; 184/1995, of December 12, FJ 3). The language of the law is not so per-
effect that allows ruling out, in any case, imprecision or amphiboly.
Therefore, what art. 25.1 CE requires the legislator is that the conduct
written in the norm and object of sanction, is sufficiently recognizable
by their eventual recipients, and the applicator must reject all
those interpretations that clearly do not find coverage in the
same. On the contrary, when by means of an elementary logical inference
the interpreter can specify without difficulty the normative forecast, the pre-
sanctioning concept in question will comply with the requirements of typicity and
certainty required by art. 25.1 EC, although the sanctioned appellant -
as in this case - allege a different interpretation of the rule
in relation to the one carried out by the General Council of the Judiciary

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

79/106

in the exercise of its disciplinary power. In such cases, the control
purpose of this Court is to prevent the interpretation of the organ
punisher, protect applications of the rule in which it is projected
on behaviors that, according to their content, could not be foreseen and
reasonably fit into the type or illicit described by it.

1.3 SUBSIDIARILY: ON THE INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION
OF THE REGULATION MADE BY THIS AGENCY. RISK OF VUL-
NERATION OF THE PRINCIPLE OF SPECIALTY.
 

In the instruction phase of the sanctioning file, the investigating body,
the concurrence of different types of offenders has already been considered, opting for
the application of article 83.5 of the RGPD, as it is a more serious infringement,
whose justification has been clarified in the Third FD.

It should be noted that the 2021 Report of the State Attorney General's Office
dedicated to "Computer Crime" dedicates in its point 8 a mention
tion to fraudulent actions online:

“In this brief review of online fraudulent actions, it is obligatory
Mention is made of the behaviors that affect the telecommunications sector.
cations in their different variants, and closely related to them, although
the damage is generated in online banking, commonly known as
SIM Swapping fraud, which is being used with alarming frequency
in recent years. The technique consists of circumventing the security measures
identity of banking entities by accessing the alphanumeric codes
of confirmation, of unique use, generated on the occasion of the transactions
electronic forms and that are ordinarily communicated to clients through
through SMS messages. To do this, criminals obtain prior
mind a duplicate or a new SIM card in the name of your victim, since
be requesting it from the corresponding operator, simulating the identity of
that, either using a more elaborate methodology, as in
the supposed object of judicial investigation in Zamora, in which
chaba for that purpose a mobile repair shop.
Once they have the SIM card at their disposal, criminals are guaranteed
they certify the reception in their own device of the confirmation code of
the fraudulent transaction and, ultimately, the possibility of making effective
the same for your benefit, preventing it from being known at that time
for the injured party. This form of fraud has generated
In recent years, multiple police investigations and the initiation
of legal proceedings in different territories such as A Coruña and Va-
lence. Their effectiveness and the ease with which criminals achieve their
illicit purposes has determined the adoption by telephone operators
phony of specific measures of prevention and strengthening of the ga-
guarantees for the issuance of these cards or their duplicates.”

The disputed facts are considered to be of sufficient relevance and
gravity, so as to, in application of the specialty principle, subsume
milos in a violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, precisely, because
that the security of customer data has not been guaranteed -for-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

80/106

adequate-, and consequently, a non-autonomous treatment has been produced.
unauthorized and illegal that affects the confidentiality of data and that has become
in other consequences, not at all trivial, such as the economic damages
which would not have occurred if TME had ensured the identity
identity and correct authentication of its clients.

SECOND. ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE ALLEGED CONDUCT IN
OTHER SANCTIONING PROCEDURES INITIATED AGAINST TME AND TE-
LEFÓNICA DE ESPAÑA, S.A.U (TDE): ERROR IN THE RATING OF
THE INFRINGEMENT.

In the Third FD we have already clarified that it is not an error in the qualification
of the infraction but of an interpretation that, by reason of the facts,
Guys, the Agency qualifies it that way.

It is article 27 of the LRJSP under the heading of "Principle of typicity",
the one that has:

1. Only the violations of the organ-
legal order provided as such infractions by a Law, without
prejudice to the provisions for the Local Administration in Title XI of the
Law 7/1985, of April 2.

Administrative infractions will be classified by law as minor, major,
you see and very serious.

2. Only for the commission of administrative infractions may im-
impose sanctions that, in any case, will be delimited by the Law.

Integrating the facts in articles 83.5.a) of the RGPD and 72.1.a) of the
LOPDGDD, the regulatory predetermination requirements are met
and certainty that derive from the principles of legality and legal certainty.
ca (articles 9.3 and 25 EC).

THIRD. THE CONDUCT OF TME IS NOT UNLAWFUL

The violation of the imputed administrative infraction responds to a
concept included within "Principles related to treatment" that requires a
adequate security in the processing of personal data, security
that has not been guaranteed according to the Proven Facts.

Illegality is the quality that has a previously typical behavior
of violating the legal system and the purposes it pursues. of this
Thus, in order to be punishable, it is not enough that the conduct
je in the description contained in the type, but with this they are vulne-
achieving the objectives pursued by law. In this regard, the conduct
will be unlawful if the legal interest protected by the violated precept is damaged.
rare.

In this case, the legislation on the protection of personal data
follows the purpose that those responsible and in charge of the data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

81/106

They treat them by having security measures
that prevent the illicit or fraudulent use of the same. And this legal good
has been injured in the events that are the subject of this proceeding.

According to STC 246/1991 "(...) this different construction of imputability
of the authorship of the infraction to the legal person arises from the very nature
law of legal fiction to which these subjects respond. missing in them
volitional element in the strict sense, but not the ability to violate the
rules to which they are subject.

Capacity for infringement and, therefore, direct blame that derives from the
legal right protected by the norm that is violated and the need for
said protection is really effective and because of the risk that, consequently,
cia, must assume the legal entity that is subject to compliance with di-
cha norma" (in this sense STS of November 24, 2011, Rec
258/2009).

Therefore, the allegation is dismissed. The ultimate responsibility rests
about the treatment continues to be attributed to the person in charge of the treatment,
who is the one who determines the existence of the treatment and its purpose. Record-
We give that, in general, the operators treat the data of their
customers under the provisions of article 6.1 b) of the RGPD, therefore
be considered a necessary treatment for the execution of a contract in the
that the interested party is a party (...).

QUARTER. NO FAULT

It alludes to the professional diligence with which he has acted.

Regarding the behavior of MSD, it is considered that it responds to the type of infraction
tor and to the title of guilt. TME is considered to have acted negligently.
As a repository of personal data on a large scale, therefore,
accustomed or dedicated specifically to the management of personal data
clients' staff, you must be especially diligent and careful in
your treatment. In other words, from the point of view of guilt, we are before
a defeatable error, since with the application of technical and organizational measures
adequate organizational measures, these identity thefts could have been
avoid.

Thus, the infraction occurred not because of the lack of a specific privacy policy.
security for the issuance of SIM duplicates, but because of the need to
their revision and reinforcement.

It is not enough to have a security policy, but it is also necessary to
quarla to mitigate the risks. The continuous advancement of technology and
evolution of the treatments propitiate the continuous appearance of new
risks that must be managed. In this context, the GDPR requires that
data controllers implement adequate control measures
to demonstrate that the rights and freedoms of persons are guaranteed.
people and data security, taking into account, among others, the “risks
risks of varying probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

82/106

natural persons” (article 24.1) applying the appropriate measures.

Certainly, the principle of responsibility set forth in article 28 of the
LRJSP, provides that: "They can only be sanctioned for constitutive acts
natural and legal persons, as well as,
when a law recognizes their capacity to act, the affected groups
two, the unions and entities without legal personality and the in-
dependent or self-employed, who are responsible for them to you.
title of fraud or fault.”

However, the mode of attribution of responsibility to legal persons
dicas does not correspond to the forms of fraudulent or reckless guilt
that are attributable to human behavior. So, in the
case of infractions committed by legal persons, although it must be
concurrence of the element of guilt, it is necessarily applied in
way different from how it is done with respect to natural persons.

To the above must be added, following the judgment of January 23,
1998, partially transcribed in the SSTS of October 9, 2009, Rec
5285/2005, and of October 23, 2010, Rec 1067/2006, that "although
the culpability of the conduct must also be proven, must
be considered in order to assume the corresponding load, which
the volitional and cognitive elements necessary to learn
ciate that they are part of the typical behavior tested, and that their exclusion
requires that the absence of such elements be proven, or in its aspect
regulations, that the diligence that was required by whoever
alleges its non-existence; not enough, in short, for exculpation in the face of a
typically unlawful behavior the invocation of the absence of
fault".

In the case of complaining party one, an attempted duplication occurs.
do corresponding to the telephone number ***TELEPHONE.2, on date 5
February 2019, which fortunately did not bear fruit in the delivery to the
supplanting person. However, and despite the fact that he changed his number
phone number ***PHONE.1, is again affected by a second in-
Attempt, a month later -on March 6, 2019-, what an unfortunate-
cially, it does materialize and is delivered to the supplanted person.
dora, running out of line and consequently losing control of
your personal information. Let us remember that it is the affected person who
declares to receive a notice by means of a telephone call from ***PRO-
VINCIA.2 of a possible impersonation attempt. We also highlight
the existence of an email written by TME staff, of
dated March 7, 2019, in which it is recognized that who issues the certificate
second duplicate, (...). To this must be added, residence in ***LOCA-
LIDAD.4, province of Barcelona of the affected party, and (...) located in ***LO-
CALIDAD.2 (***PROVINCIA.2) and the issuance of the second duplicate in
(...) the city of ***PROVINCE.1.

As for the complaining party two, the duplicate is issued (...) in
***LOCATION.4 (Barcelona) when the affected party has his domicile in
Las Rosas (Madrid).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

83/106

(...).

In the case of claimant three, there is (...), which becomes
the issuance of a duplicate of the line ***TELÉFONO.5, even if there is
contacted TME thirteen minutes after receiving the email.
co that confirms the withdrawal from Movistar Cloud. Also, it has been possible
check that in the recording of the change of ownership of the service
provided by the affected party, (...). We would not, therefore, be faced with a deception.
of a third party, but in the presence of security measures
which then manifested themselves as insufficient, became inappropriate.
das and did not guarantee an adequate level of security in the process of
verification of the identity of applicants for a change of service.
Given this, we must insist that the safety of a procedure is,
like that of a chain, that of its weakest link, and in the case of this
establish strict security measures in a channel, if they are not established
also equivalent measurements in the rest of the channels, it is reducing
ceding global security to that of the minor security channel.

4.1 DILIGENT ACTION, GOOD FAITH AND LEGITIMATE TRUST
OF MSD

He adduces how striking it is that, in the Motion for a Resolution, for a
On the other hand, certain affirmations are indicated that include positive evaluations and
on the other hand, others are indicated in the opposite direction.

It is true that as an operator it is subject to the “Obligations of public service”.
public and rights and obligations of a public nature in the exploitation of networks
and in the provision of electronic communications services” of the LGTEL.

However, TME cannot deny the fact that it processes data of a personal nature.
large-scale sound. It is the operator itself that acknowledges having more than
eight million customers.

Indeed, in sanctioning matters the principle of culpability (STC
15/1999, of July 4; 76/1990, of April 26; and 246/1991, of December 19
bre), which means that there must be some kind of fraud or guilt. What
says the STS of January 23, 1998, "...one can speak of a determined lí-
jurisprudential line that rejects in the sanctioning scope of the Administration
strict liability, requiring the concurrence of fraud or negligence,
in line with the interpretation of the STC 76/1990, of April 26, when pointing out
that the principle of culpability can be inferred from the principles of legality and
prohibition of excess (article 25 of the Constitution) or the demands
inherent in the rule of law".

The lack of diligence when implementing safety measures at origin
Proper authority constitutes the element of guilt.

4.2 DUE DILIGENCE IN THE CHOICE AND SUPERVISION OF THE
CHARGED OF THE TREATMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THIS:
It also appeals to the existence of exceptional circumstances and beyond

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

84/106

TME and the due diligence shown, since it cannot be considered
responsible for exceptional breaches of the operations carried out
carried out by those in charge of the treatment. This claim must be
dismissed because the signed contracts already provide that the treatments
those made by those in charge will be made on behalf of the person in charge, that is,
that is, TME (article 29 RGPD).

From TME's statements the conclusion seems to be drawn that it has no
no power of action to prevent these frauds or impersonations, since
attributes all responsibility to intervening third parties (managers or su-
planters). We do not agree with this conviction. Also po-
We could refute the inconsistency of these affirmations because, for a
side, cites due diligence in their selection and supervision, invokes the STS
1232/2018 to confirm that it has fulfilled the surveillance duties, and
on the other, it holds them responsible for the facts.

Also, the fact that the Agency has recognized that there are certain
clauses that define the terms of the relationships with those in charge of the
treatment, does not exempt you from risk management, which is one of the pillars of
the leadership of any organization. Every entity, when it intends to lend
with guarantees a service, must manage the elements of uncertainty that
are derived from its nature, scope, context and purposes.

The concepts of controller and processor are not formal,
but functional and must attend to the specific case. The person responsible for the treatment
treatment is from the moment it decides the ends and means of the treatment.
without losing such condition the fact of leaving a certain margin of action
tion to the person in charge of the treatment. This is unquestionably expressed in the Di-
CEPD guidelines 07/2020 -the translation is ours-:

“A data controller is the one who determines the purposes and
the means of treatment, that is, the why and how of the treatment.
I lie. The data controller must decide on both
purposes and means. However, some more practical aspects
of implementation ("non-essential media") can be left in
hands of the treatment manager. It is not necessary that the res-
responsible actually has access to the data being processed
to qualify as responsible.

Likewise, in point 6 it is said (the translation is ours):

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with
the principles established in article 5, paragraph 1, of the RGPD; Y
it's

The data controller must be able to demonstrate compliance
observance of the principles established in article 5, paragraph 1, of the
GDPR

Also in point 8 they establish:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

85/106

The principle of liability has been further developed
in article 24, which establishes that the controller of the traffic-
will apply the appropriate technical and organizational measures to
guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is carried out in accordance
mited with the RGPD. These measures will be reviewed and updated in
necessary case. (…)

 

4.3 EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES AND OUTSIDE TELEFÓNICA:
• Possible negligence in the care of personal data on the part of
 
users: the users themselves have the responsibility of custodian
properly disclose your personal data.
 
    

The Internet Security Office tells us that the “Duplicate card
SIM or SIM card exchange -SIM Swapping-” “is based on the duplication
of our SIM card, and for this, the attackers need some personal data.
such as name and surname, DNI, date of birth, the last 4 days
payments from our bank account, etc., that they have been able to obtain by other means,
such as phishing or buying in online stores
 
 . With these da-
cough, the attackers request a duplicate of our SIM, supplanting our
identity with the above data before the operator. Meanwhile, the only thing
we notice is that our device runs out of mobile coverage, and when
we connect to a Wi-Fi network, we will begin to receive notifications of mo-
movements made from our mobile without our consent, such as
bank transfers or online purchases, among others”.

 fraudulent
 

It is true that it is outside the scope of responsibility of TME the information
personal information that can be shared by those affected. what is inside
its sphere of control is the definition of the procedures, systems, controls
rules and security measures applicable depending on the criticality of the treatment.
that ensure the correct identification of the holder of the line.
• Probable liability of third parties unrelated to TME, such as entities
banking entities that have operated in each case

Certainly, the PSD2 Directive applies to payment services provided
within the Union (article 2), and not to TME, but it is also true that the ex-
Request for a duplicate SIM card in favor of a third party who is not the owner.
The line manager gives spoofers control of the phone line.
ca, and therefore, of the SMS addressed to the phone linked to the SIM card
initial and in this way to be able to access to know the authentication code
tion of the transaction.

Pursuant to article 4.30 of the Directive, "strong authentication" is based on
in the use of two or more elements categorized as knowledge
(something only the user knows about), possession (something only the user owns), and
inherence (something that is the user). These elements or factors are independent
teeth against each other and, therefore, the violation of one does not compromise the reliability
of others.

The foundation is very simple: the more elements you have to verify,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

86/106

identify the user's identity, the more secure the transaction.

Let us remember that, in these cases, the impersonator must first, in-
Enter the username and password or password in the application or on the website
payment service provider or online banking. Second, for
complete the transaction or electronic management that you wish to carry out, the supplanting
The customer will receive, normally through an SMS, an alphanumeric code of the
verification on the mobile phone linked to that profile. This code has a
limited temporary validity and it is of a single use, that is to say, it is only generated
for that specific transaction and for a limited time. Once you enter
Once the verification code was given, the transaction would go through and complete. I know
assumes that only the user has the mobile device in his possession (it would be the
“something you have”), so when receiving the verification code on said mobile phone,
fication via SMS, your identity would be doubly authenticated. By
Therefore, it would not be enough for the impersonators to be able to commit the fraud with
know the username and password with which the victim identifies, but
it will be necessary for them to intercept said confirmation code. Consequently,
in order to carry out a non-consensual transfer, transaction or purchase.
that is, to carry out the computer fraud, the cybercriminal must
will illegitimately access the verification codes associated with each
of these operations sent by the bank through SMS and the
The most common way to do this is by obtaining a duplicate
of the SIM card.

Therefore, it is necessary to execute two completely different actions
but complementary to each other.

First of all, you must obtain the access data for online banking or
payment provider owned by the person to be defrauded, if we focus on
the search for wealth enrichment.

And secondly, it will be necessary to obtain the duplicate of the SIM card owned by the
identity of the person to defraud in order to get hold of the SMS of
confirmation that the client will receive on his mobile terminal as authentication
double factor.

Well, in the last of these actions -obtaining the duplicate-, it is where
the facts that are the object of this procedure have been focused and not on the events
decided in the first phase, who remain outside the responsibility that is
imputes to TME.

• Intentional actions of third parties to commit a crime

Regarding TME's lack of responsibility, it should be noted that, with
general character TME treats the data of its clients under the provisions of
Article 6.1 b) of the RGPD, as it is considered a necessary treatment for the
execution of a contract in which the interested party is a party or for the application
at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures. In other cases, substantiate
the legality of the treatment on the bases provided for in article 6.1.a) and f) of the
GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

87/106

It is true that, to complete the scam, it is necessary for a third party to “impersonate
the identity” of the owner of the data, to receive the duplicate of the SIM card.
What entails a priori, a treatment outside the principle of legality because
a third party is treating data, since it has access to them, without legal basis al-
guna, in addition to the violation of other principles such as confidentiality
dad.

For this reason, this is a process in which the diligence provided by the
operators is essential to avoid this type of scams and violations
of the GDPR. Diligence that translates into the establishment of adequate measures
to ensure that data processing is in accordance with the RGPD.

Regarding the fact that the commercial agents of the face-to-face and telephone channel have
been deceived and induced to commit human errors when applying
identification operation designed, it should be noted that TME must be in
disposition to establish mechanisms that prevent duplication
fraudulent cation of SIM cards, measures that respect the integrity and
confidentiality of the data and that prevent a third party from accessing data
that are not owned by them, since it is precisely the operator's responsibility to treat
personal data in accordance with the RGPD (recitals 76, 77, 78, 79,
81 and 83 GDPR; article 32 of the RGPD and article 28 of the LOPDGDD)

We have already consigned in the Proven Facts, the existence of the contracts
and applicable clauses. However, TME cannot evade responsibility
that corresponds to it regarding the security of the treatment, hiding behind
the existence of contractual clauses that it claims have been breached by
part of the managers. Let us remember that in all three cases, those in charge
act on behalf of TME, in the case of (...).

To improve policy compliance by dealers
the instructions that are shown to them must be clear, being recommendable
the inclusion of these in the information system, within the process of change
SIM bio, even with controls on system screens such as buttons
acceptance tones that prevent the continuity of the process if it is not accepted
have performed a certain action.

Periodic testing, measurement and evaluation of the effectiveness of
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment
are the responsibility of each controller and processor in accordance with
me to article 32.1.d) of the RGPD.

Therefore, TME as data controller is obliged to verify
both the selection and the level of effectiveness of the technical means used
two. The completeness of this verification must be evaluated through the prism
risk adequacy and proportionality in relation to the state
of technical knowledge, implementation costs and the nature, al-
scope, context and purposes of the treatment.

The concurrence of force majeure is not appreciated. As indicated by the in-
tructora in the Resolution Proposal, in the cases described in the section
of proven facts, data security was not effectively guaranteed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

88/106

tive, and in particular, its correct custody to avoid loss, theft or
Unauthorized access.

FIFTH. BREACH OF THE PRINCIPLE OF PROPORTIONALITY

Regarding the breach of the principle of proportionality, the RGPD provides
expressly the possibility of graduation, through the provision of fines
susceptible to modulation, in response to a series of circumstances of
each individual case effective, proportionate and dissuasive (article 83.1 and 2
RGPD), general conditions for the imposition of administrative fines
variables that have been analyzed by this Agency, to which it is necessary to submit
check the graduation criteria provided for in the LOPDGDD, object of development
llo in the FD Seventh.

It should be noted that the agreed administrative fine will be effective because
will lead the company to apply the technical and organizational measures that
guarantee a degree of safety corresponding to the criticality value of the
treatment.

It is also proportional to the violation identified, in particular its degree.
truth, the risks that have been incurred and the financial situation of
the company.

And finally, it is dissuasive. A dissuasive fine is one that has a
genuine deterrent effect. In this regard, the Judgment of the CJEU, of 13
June 2013, Versalis Spa v Commission, C-511/11, ECLI:EU:C:2013:386, says:

“ 94.Regarding, first of all, the reference to the Showa judgment
Denko v Commission, cited above, it should be noted that Versalis interprets it
incorrectly. In fact, the Court of Justice, when pointing out in the paragraph
do 23 of said sentence that the dissuasive factor is valued taking into account
consideration a multitude of elements and not just the particular situation
of the company in question, he was referring to points 53 to 55 of the
conclusions presented in that matter by Advocate General Geelhoed,
he had pointed out, in essence, that the multiplier coefficient of characters
dissuasive ter may have as its object not only a "general deterrence", but
defined as an action to discourage all companies, in general,
that they commit the offense in question, but also a «deterrent»
specific action', consisting of dissuading the specific defendant from
don't break the rules again in the future. Therefore, the Court of
Justice only confirmed, in that sentence, that the Commission was not obligated
bound to limit its assessment to factors related solely to the following
particular situation of the company in question.”

“102. According to settled jurisprudence, the objective of the multiplier factor
suasory and the consideration, in this context, of the size and the re-
global courses of the company in question lies in the desired impact
on the aforementioned company, since the sanction should not be insignificant, it is
especially in relation to the financial capacity of the company (in
this sense, see, in particular, the judgment of June 17, 2010,
Lafarge v Commission, C-413/08 P, ECR p. I-5361, section 104, and the car of 7

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

89/106

February 2012, Total and Elf Aquitaine v Commission, C-421/11 P, para.
82).”

The Judgment dated May 11, 2006 issued in the cassation appeal
7133/2003 establishes that: “It must also be taken into account that one of the criteria
governing the application of said principle administrative sanctioning regime (criterion
collected under the rubric of «principle of proportionality» in section 2 of article
131 of the aforementioned Law 30/1992) is that the imposition of pecuniary sanctions does not
must suppose that the commission of the typified infractions is more beneficial
for the offender than compliance with the rules violated”.
Also important is the jurisprudence resulting from the Judgment of the Third Chamber
of the Supreme Court, issued on May 27, 2003 (rec. 3725/1999) that
says: Proportionality, pertaining specifically to the scope of the sanction,
constitutes one of the principles that govern the sanctioning Administrative Law, and
represents an instrument of control of the exercise of the sanctioning power by the
Administration within, even, the margins that, in principle, the standard indicates
applicable for such exercise. It certainly supposes a concept that is difficult to determine
a priori, but which tends to adapt the sanction, by establishing its specific graduation
within the indicated possible margins, to the seriousness of the constitutive act of the
infraction, both in its aspect of unlawfulness and culpability, weighing
as a whole the objective and subjective circumstances that make up the budget
de facto punishable -and, in particular, as it results from article 131.3 LRJ and PAC, the
intentionality or repetition, the nature of the damage caused and the recurrence
Inc-. (SSTS July 19, 1996, February 2, 1998 and December 20, 1999, en-
three many others).

SIXTH: Principles relating to treatment.

Considering the right to the protection of personal data as the right
natural persons to have their own data, it is necessary to determine the
principles that make it up.

In this sense, article 5 RGPD, referring to the "Principles related to treatment"
has:
1. The personal data will be:

a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawful
trust, loyalty and transparency»);
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed further.
riorly in a manner incompatible with said purposes; (...);
c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed ("data minimization");
d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; All reasonable steps will be taken
entitled to delete or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);
e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data;
(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

90/106

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility").
The principle of data security requires the application of technical or organizational measures.
appropriate organizational measures in the processing of personal data to protect said
data against access, use, modification, dissemination, loss, destruction or accidental damage
dental, unauthorized or illegal. In this sense, security measures are key to
when guaranteeing the fundamental right to data protection. It is not possible the
existence of the fundamental right to data protection if it is not possible to guarantee
the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our data.
In this sense, recital 75 of the RGPD determines: The risks to the rights
rights and freedoms of natural persons, of varying gravity and probability, can
are due to the processing of data that could cause physical damage,
material or immaterial, in particular in cases where the processing may
give rise to problems of discrimination, identity theft or fraud, fi-
financial losses, reputational damage, loss of confidentiality of data subject to secre-
professional creed, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization, or any other per-
significant economic or social judgement; in the cases in which the interested parties are deprived
two of their rights and freedoms or are prevented from exercising control over their data
personal; in cases in which the personal data processed reveal the origin
ethnic or racial, political opinions, religion or philosophical beliefs, militancy
in trade unions and the processing of genetic data, data related to health or social data.
sexual life, or criminal convictions and infractions or security measures such as
nexus; in cases in which personal aspects are evaluated, in particular the analysis
analysis or prediction of aspects related to performance at work, economic situation,
mica, health, personal preferences or interests, reliability or behavior, situation
tion or movements, in order to create or use personal profiles; in cases where
those that process personal data of vulnerable people, in particular children; or in
cases in which the treatment involves a large amount of personal data and
affects a large number of stakeholders.
Likewise, recital 83 of the RGPD establishes: In order to maintain the security and
avoid that the treatment violates the provisions of this Regulation, the controller
responsible or the person in charge must evaluate the risks inherent to the treatment and apply mea-
given to mitigate them, such as encryption. These measures must guarantee a level of security
adequate security, including confidentiality, taking into account the state of the tech-
uniqueness and the cost of its application with respect to the risks and the nature of the data
personal to be protected. When assessing the risk in relation to the safety of
the data, the risks that derive from the treatment of the data must be taken into account.
personal data, such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication
or unauthorized access to said data, which is particularly likely to cause damage
and physical, material or immaterial damages.
We must attend to the unique circumstances of the three claims presented.
through which it can be verified that, from the moment in which the loss
impersonating sona performs the SIM replacement, the victim's phone remains
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

91/106

without service, passing control of the line to the impersonators. In consequence
Consequently, the claimants see their powers of disposal and control over their
personal data, which constitute part of the content of the fundamental right to
data protection as indicated by the Constitutional Court in the Judgment
292/2000, of November 30, 2000 (FJ 7). So, by getting a duplicate
tion of the SIM card, it is possible under certain circumstances, the access to the
contacts or to the applications and services that have as a recovery procedure
password generation the sending of an SMS with a code to be able to modify the passwords
yes. In fact, the complaining party two denounces that: “In my case, the thief took the
calls made to my phone number. I myself, I got to talk to him.”
In short, they may supplant the identity of those affected, being able to access and
control, for example: email accounts; bank accounts; Applications
like WhatsApp; social networks, such as Facebook or Twitter, and much more. In short-
give accounts, once the access code has been modified by the impersonators
lose control of their accounts, applications and services, which is a great
threat.
Hence, the security and confidentiality of personal data are considered
essential to prevent data subjects from suffering negative effects.
In line with these provisions, recital 39 RGPD provides: All treatment
The processing of personal data must be lawful and fair. For natural persons you must-
make it absolutely clear that they are being collected, used, consulted or attempted to
otherwise personal data concerning them, as well as the extent to which said
data is or will be processed. The principle of transparency requires that all information and
communication regarding the processing of said data is easily accessible and easy
to understand, and that simple and clear language is used. This principle refers to
particular to the information of the interested parties on the identity of the person in charge of the
treatment and the purposes of the same and to the information added to guarantee a treatment
fair and transparent treatment with respect to the natural persons affected and their right
right to obtain confirmation and communication of personal data concerning them.
nan that are subject to treatment.
Natural persons must be aware of the risks, standards, safeguards,
guards and the rights related to the processing of personal data as well as the
way to enforce your rights in relation to the treatment. In particular, the fi-
specific terms of the processing of personal data must be explicit and legitimate.
mos, and must be determined at the time of collection. The personal data of
must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which
be treated. This requires, in particular, ensuring that it is limited to a strict minimum
its retention period. Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing
treatment could not reasonably be achieved by other means. To ensure that
personal data is not kept longer than necessary, the person responsible for the
treatment must establish deadlines for its suppression or periodic review. They must to-
take all reasonable steps to ensure that they are rectified or deleted
personal data that is inaccurate. Personal data must be treated in a
way that guarantees adequate security and confidentiality of the personal data
purposes, including to prevent unauthorized access or use of such data and the
equipment used in treatment.
In short, it is the data controller who has the obligation to integrate the
necessary guarantees in the treatment, with the purpose of, under the principle of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

92/106

proactive responsibility, comply and be able to demonstrate compliance, at the same
while respecting the fundamental right to data protection.
Recital 7 provides: (...) Individuals must have control of their
own personal data. (…)
The facts declared previously proven, are constitutive of a violation
of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD by providing TME duplicates of the SIM card to third parties.
people who are not the legitimate owners of the mobile lines and even modify the ownership
larity of the contracted services (claimant party three), after overcoming by the
people impersonating the security policies implemented by the operator, which
that evidences a breach of the duty to protect customer information.
This unauthorized access to the personal data of those affected is determined
te for subsequent actions carried out by the impersonators, since
that take advantage of the space of time that elapses until the user detects the fac-
llo on the line, he contacts the operator, and she detects the problem, to
carry out fraudulent banking operations -which have been reproduced in the three cases
denounced - and that without the duplication of the SIM card it would have become impossible to
realization.

The issuance and delivery of the duplicate to an unauthorized third party implies for those affected
two the loss of control of your personal data. Therefore, the value of that data
personal, integrated in a physical support -SIM card-, is real and unquestionable, reason
whereby TME has a legal duty to ensure your safety, just as it would with
any other assets.

It is worth mentioning ruling 292/2000, of November 30, of the Constitutional Court
tutional, which configures the right to data protection as an autonomous right
and independent that consists of a power of disposition and control over the data
personal data that empowers the person to decide which of these data to provide
to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or what data this third party may collect, and
which also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data and for what,
being able to oppose that possession or use. Thus, in accordance with the legal foundations
cos 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the judgment of the high court:

"4. Without needing to explain in detail the wide possibilities that information
matic offers both to collect and to communicate personal data or the
undoubted risks that this can entail, given that a person can ignore
rar not only what are the data that concern you that are collected in
a file but also if they have been transferred to another and for what purpose, it is
enough to indicate both extremes to understand that the fundamental right
to privacy (art. 18.1 CE) does not provide sufficient protection by itself
in the face of this new reality derived from technological progress.
However, with the inclusion of the current art. 18.4 CE the constituent put of
highlighted that he was aware of the risks that the use of the information could entail.
and entrusted to the legislator the guarantee of both certain fundamental rights
mental and the full exercise of the rights of the person. That is, in-
incorporating a guarantee institute "as a form of response to a new formation
a concrete threat to the dignity and rights of the person", but
which is also, "in itself,
 a fundamental right or freedom
(STC 254/1993, of July 20, FJ 6). Concern and purpose of the constituent
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

93/106

which is evident, on the one hand, if one takes into account that from the draft
The constitutional text already included a section similar to the current art. 18.4 EC
and that this was later expanded by accepting an amendment to include-
ra its final paragraph. And more clearly, on the other hand, because if in the debate in the
Senate, some doubts were raised about the need for this section of the
precept given the recognition of the rights to privacy and honor in the
initial section, however, were dissipated by highlighting that these
rights, in view of their content, did not offer sufficient guarantees against
the threats that the use of information technology could entail for the protection of
private life. So the constituent wanted to guarantee through the
current art. 18.4 EC not only a specific scope of protection but also
more suitable than the one that fundamental rights could offer, by themselves.
such mentioned in section 1 of the precept.
5. (…)
Well, in these decisions the Court has already declared that art. 18.4 EC
contains, under the terms of the STC 254/1993, a guarantee institute for the
rights to privacy and honor and the full enjoyment of the other rights
of citizens which, furthermore, is in itself "a fundamental right or freedom
mental health, the right to liberty in the face of potential attacks on the dignity
and the freedom of the person from an illegitimate use of the treatment
mechanized data, what the Constitution calls 'informatics'", which has been
called "computer freedom" (FJ 6, later reiterated in the
SSTC 143/1994, FJ 7, 11/1998, FJ 4, 94/1998, FJ 6, 202/1999, FJ 2). The guarantee-
privacy of a person's private life and reputation today have a dimension
positive pressure that exceeds the scope of the fundamental right to intimidation.
ity (art. 18.1 CE), and that translates into a right of control over the data
relating to the person himself. The so-called "computer freedom" is thus the right to
control the use of the same data inserted in a computer program (ha-
beas data) and includes, among other aspects, the citizen's opposition to
that certain personal data are used for purposes other than
the legitimate one that justified its obtaining (SSTC 11/1998, FJ 5, 94/1998, FJ 4).
This fundamental right to data protection, unlike the right to
privacy of art. 18.1 CE, with whom it shares the goal of offering efficient
effective constitutional protection of private personal and family life, attributes to
holder a bundle of powers consisting for the most part of the legal power
dictate of imposing on third parties the performance or omission of certain behaviors
ments whose specific regulation must be established by the Law, the one that conforms
to art. 18.4 CE must limit the use of information technology, either by developing the right
fundamental right to data protection (art. 81.1 CE), either regulating its exercise
cycle (art. 53.1 CE). The peculiarity of this fundamental right to protection
tion of data regarding that fundamental right as related as that of
intimacy lies, then, in its different function, which therefore entails
that also its object and content differ.
6. The function of the fundamental right to privacy of art. 18.1 CE is that of
protect against any invasion that may be carried out in that area of the
personal and family life that the person wishes to exclude from the knowledge of others and
of the interference of third parties against their will (for all
STC 144/1999, of July 22, FJ 8). Instead, the fundamental right to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

94/106

data protection seeks to guarantee that person a power of control over
about your personal data, about its use and destination, with the purpose of preventing
its illicit and harmful traffic for the dignity and rights of the affected. Finally, the right
The right to privacy allows certain data of a person to be excluded from knowledge.
third party, for this reason, and this Court has said so (SSTC 134/1999, of 15
July, FJ 5; 144/1999, FJ 8; 98/2000, of April 10, FJ 5; 115/2000, of 10 of
May, FJ 4), that is, the power to protect your private life from publicity
No, darling. The right to data protection guarantees individuals a
power of disposal over such data. This guarantee imposes on the public powers
public authorities prohibiting them from becoming sources of such information without the
due guarantees; and also the duty to prevent the risks that may derive
avoid improper access or disclosure of such information. But that power
of disposition on the personal data itself nothing is worth if the affected
knows what data is held by third parties, who owns it, and
to what end
Hence the singularity of the right to data protection, since, on the one hand,
Its object is broader than that of the right to privacy, since the right
fundamental to data protection extends its guarantee not only to privacy
in its dimension constitutionally protected by art. 18.1 EC, but to
which this Court has on occasion defined in broader terms as
sphere of the assets of the personality that belong to the sphere of private life.
da, inextricably linked to respect for personal dignity (STC 170/1987,
of October 30, FJ 4), such as the right to honor, expressly cited in the
art. 18.4 CE, and likewise, in a very broad expression of art. 18.4 CE, al
full exercise of personal rights. The fundamental right to
Data protection extends the constitutional guarantee to those data that
are relevant to or have an impact on the exercise of any rights
rights of the person, whether or not they are constitutional rights and whether or not they are relative
honor, ideology, personal and family intimacy to any other cons-
formally protected.
In this way, the object of protection of the fundamental right to protection
of data is not reduced only to the intimate data of the person, but to any
type of personal data, whether intimate or not, whose knowledge or use by third parties
ros may affect their rights, whether fundamental or not, because their purpose
it is not only individual intimacy, for this is the protection that art.
18.1 CE grants, but personal data. Therefore, also
reaches those public personal data, which by the fact of being, of being
accessible to the knowledge of anyone, they do not escape the power of disposition
of the affected party because this is guaranteed by their right to data protection. Tam-
Also for this reason, the fact that the data is of a personal nature does not mean that it only
those related to the private or intimate life of the person have protection, but
that the protected data are all those that identify or allow the
identification of the person, being able to serve for the preparation of their profile
ideological, racial, sexual, economic or of any other nature, or that serve
for any other use that in certain circumstances constitutes a
threat to the individual.
But the fundamental right to data protection also has a se-
second peculiarity that distinguishes it from others, such as the right to privacy
personal and family of art. 18.1 EC. This peculiarity lies in its content,
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

95/106

since unlike the latter, which confers on the person the legal power
to impose on third parties the duty to refrain from any interference in the
privacy of the person and the prohibition of making use of what is thus known
(SSTC 73/1982, of December 2, FJ 5; 110/1984, of November 26, FJ
3; 89/1987, of June 3, FJ 3; 231/1988, of December 2, FJ 3; 197/1991,
of October 17, FJ 3, and in general the SSTC 134/1999, of June 15,
lio, 144/1999, of July 22, and 115/2000, of May 10), the right to pro-
data protection attributes to its holder a bundle of faculties consisting of different
those legal powers whose exercise imposes legal duties on third parties, which
are not contained in the fundamental right to privacy, and that serve the
essential function performed by this fundamental right: to guarantee the person
a power of control over your personal data, which is only possible and effective
vo imposing on third parties the aforementioned duties to do. Namely: the right
I agree that prior consent is required for the collection and use of the
personal data, the right to know and be informed about the destination and use of
that data and the right to access, rectify and cancel said data. In defi-
tive, the power of disposal over personal data (STC 254/1993, FJ 7).
7. From all that has been said, it follows that the content of the fundamental right to
Data protection consists of a power of disposition and control over data.
personal data that empowers the person to decide which of these personal data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or what this third party can
ro collect, and that also allows the individual to know who owns that data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These can-
disposition and control over personal data, which constitute part
of the content of the fundamental right to data protection are specified
legally empowered to consent to the collection, obtaining and access to
personal data, their subsequent storage and treatment, as well as their
possible use or uses, by a third party, be it the State or an individual. And that right-
right to consent to the knowledge and treatment, computerized or not, of the data
personal, requires as essential complements, on the one hand, the faculty
the right to know at all times who has these personal data and to what
use is subduing them, and, on the other hand, the power to oppose that possession and
applications.
Finally, they are characteristic elements of the constitutional definition of the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data the rights of the affected to
consent to the collection and use of your personal data and to know of the same
mos. And it is essential to make this content effective the recognition
protection of the right to be informed of who owns your personal data and with
what purpose, and the right to be able to oppose that possession and use by requiring
who corresponds to put an end to the possession and use of the data. Namely,
requiring the owner of the file to inform him of what data he has about his personal
person, accessing their appropriate records and seats, and what fate they have had-
do, which also reaches potential assignees; and, where appropriate, require
to rectify or cancel them.” (the underlining of all the paragraphs is
our)

Therefore, any action that involves depriving the person of those faculties
disposition and control over your personal data, constitutes an attack and a vulnerability
ration of their fundamental right to data protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

96/106

SEVENTH: General conditions for the imposition of the administrative fine.

Article 83.2 of the RGPD provides that:
Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in art.
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine
and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages and losses.
who have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the data controller or data processor.
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have been applied
under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment-
I lie;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy
gave the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in re-
relationship with the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and k) any other factor
aggravating or mitigating circumstance applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as the benefits
financial gains obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
through the infringement.

For its part, article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures” of the LOPDGDD provides
ne:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established
two in section 2 of the aforementioned article.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

97/106

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, also
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

violation.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of

the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
 The impact on the rights of minors.

F)
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis,
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
those that exist controversies between those and any interested party. (…)”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanction
as responsible for the infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, it proceeds
graduate the fine that corresponds to impose, prior assessment of the allegations adduced
for the purposes of a correct application of the principle of proportionality.

On the one hand, the following aggravating factors have been taken into account:

- Article 83.2.a) RGPD:

The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account
the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation that
concerned, as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of
damages that they have suffered:
It is not that the AEPD has valued differently the different cir-
concurrent circumstances of the precept, but opted for an assessment
independently so that the analysis of each one would be clearer.
However, nothing prevents a joint analysis which is as follows:
The violation of the principle of article 5.1.f) RGPD entails an im-
important for the rights of those affected. The Agency considers that
the nature of the infraction is very serious since it entails a loss
loss of disposal and control over personal data. has allowed
criminals steal identity by hijacking phone number
phone number after obtaining a duplicate of your SIM card. Behind the
entry into force of the PSD2 Directive, the mobile phone has become
play a very important role in making online payments by being
necessary for the confirmation of transactions, and converts this dis-
positive -and by extension to the SIM card-, in clear objective of the cyber-
criminals.
It refers to SAN 496/2017, although we consider that the circumstances
referred to are different. In that case, a violation
neration of article 77.37 of the LGTEL. The Court considered that the
Non-compliance or incorrect fulfillment of the obligation, in the processing
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

98/106

casualties, did not cause a serious violation of the rights
of consumers and end users, which is why it turned out to be more favorable
rable the qualification of the infraction as minor.
In relation to the time period with respect to which the events occurred,
although the facts denounced by the complaining parties occur
on certain dates, TME declared in fiscal year 2019 for the mar-
ca Movistar a total of XXX cases and in the previous actions of in-
investigation provided a list of XX cases ranging from January 14
2020 until June 12, 2020. Therefore, the application as
mitigating factor of article 76.2.a) of the LOPDGDD - continued nature of
infringement - as TME states, is incompatible with the appraisal of the
duration of the offense as an aggravating circumstance, which, maintaining
mos as such.
The percentage of fraudulent SIM card applications declared by
TME in fiscal year 2019 amounts to X,XXXXX % with respect to the total of
SIM card changes managed: XXXXXXX changes.
The percentage of fraudulent SIM card applications declared by
TME until the month of June 2020 amounts to X.XXXXX % with respect to the
total SIM card changes managed: XXXXXX changes.
Specifically, for the Movistar brand, the figure corresponding to 2019
(XXX cases) is broken down as follows:
(...).
The cases detected and notified to the Agency up to the month of June
of 2020 amount to XX cases.
And although there have been three reported cases, the previous actions
of investigation identified the existence of other cases (TME declared
for the Movistar brand in 2019 a total of XXX cases and
provided a list of XX cases ranging from 01/14/2020 to
06/12/2020).
In relation to the level of damages and losses suffered, the Agency
considered high, since it has led to fraudulent banking operations
tas occurred in a short space of time. Through duplication
of SIM cards, alleged impersonators have managed to control
control of the subscriber's line and specifically the reception of targeted SMS
to the legitimate subscriber to carry out online operations with entities
banks impersonating his personality. These SMS are sent by entities
bank details as part of the two-step verification of transactions
tions such as money transfers or Internet payments, and the access
so to these SMS is usually the reason for the fraudulent duplication of the
SIM cards.
It is true that TME is not responsible for identification policies
of clients established by banking entities nor can it be attributed
bury the responsibility for bank e raud. However, it is also
true, that if TME ensured the procedure of identification and
ga, the entity verification system could not even be activated.
des banking The scammer after getting the activation of the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

99/106

new SIM, takes control of the telephone line, thus being able to
nuation, carry out fraudulent banking operations by accessing the
SMS that banks send to their customers. this sequence
of facts revealed in the claims filed ge-
would be a series of serious damages that should have been
taken into account in an impact assessment relating to the protection of
data (considering 89, 90, 91 and article 35 of the RGPD). Definitely,
from the moment a duplicate is delivered to a person other than
the owner of the line or authorized person, the customer loses control of
the line and the risks, damages, multiply. In addition, I have
Many happen with overwhelming immediacy.
In short, the application of the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.a) of the RGPD is
refers to all these previously analyzed aspects, positions of
manifest in the Proven Facts, in the social alarm generated by the
carrying out these fraudulent practices and due to the very high probability
materialization of the risk, without determining the number of re-
claims filed. And this, because what has been analyzed in the
present sanctioning procedure is the data protection policy
implemented by the data controller as a result of various re-
claims filed with the AEPD.

- Article 83.2.b) RGPD:

Intentionality or negligence in the infringement:

It alleges that the events that occurred with the three claimants
they cannot be considered in any way as a sample
representative of the level of commitment shown by TME in
compliance with its obligations regarding the protection of
data and, much less, the degree of effectiveness of some
security policies that are designed to serve a
volume of clients that exceeds 8 million and that the percentage
je of fraudulent applications is minimal.
Although the Agency considers that there was no intention to
part of TME, concludes that it was negligent in failing to secure a
procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data
end of customers. So, a result
socially harmful that imposes the disapproval of the policy
implemented security system that was ineffective, independently
of the level of commitment shown, which is unquestionable.
feasible.

Deny the concurrence of negligent action on the part of
TME would be equivalent to acknowledging that their conduct -by action or omission-
sion- has been diligent. Obviously, we do not share this
perspective of the facts, since it has been accredited the
lack of due diligence. A large company that treats
processing of personal data of its customers on a large scale,
systematically and continuously, you must take extreme care in the
compliance with its obligations regarding the protection of
data, as established by case law. It is very illus-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

100/106

 

the SAN of October 17, 2007 (rec. 63/2006), based on
that they are entities whose activity involves
in continuous processing of customer data, indicates that "... the
The Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence
whenever a statutory duty of care is disregarded, i.e.
when the offender does not behave with due diligence. Y
in assessing the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to
especially the professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt
that, in the case now examined, when the activity of the re-
current is of constant and abundant management of data of ca-
personal character
 
 must insist on rigor and exquisite care
 
for complying with the legal provisions in this regard".
The risk analysis of the treatment is established as fundamental.
processing of data according to the specific circumstances of the
operator, such as volume and type of data. It is vital
importance of establishing and implementing procedures and measures
necessary, depending on the characteristics and entity of this,
to demonstrate that due diligence has been carried out
when trying to prevent an impersonation of
identity. Thus, even if the damage was done by a third party,
zero external to the company, it must be possible to demonstrate that
taken the necessary precautions during the development of
business activity, required by the regulations, to avoid a
damage that was foreseeable. It's about having a level of care
objective taking into account the specific circumstances of the case that
make it possible to make it clear that he was aware of the possibility
of suffering an identity theft, and that, with it, is applied
appropriate measures were taken to reduce the materialization of such
risk to the minimum possible.

- Article 83.2.d) RGPD:

 Degree of responsibility of the data controller or data processor
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that
have applied under Articles 25 and 32:

He claims not to understand the conclusion of the Agency that qualifies the
degree of responsibility as high.
Responsibility for vulnerabilities in the procedure
for the issuance of the duplicate SIM card corresponds to
TME.
Those in charge of the treatment -distributors and suppliers-
res, where appropriate - they only process the data following the instructions
documented by the person in charge and contractually defined
give the consequences of its non-compliance.
The personal data that TME collects both for contracting
of the service as during its provision, are your responsibility.
and must be treated in a way that allows good development
development of the contractual relationship between the parties, guaranteeing in
at all times the application of the principles of article 5
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

101/106

GDPR. And this is independent of whether the treatment is carried out
by himself or through a treatment manager.
In this sense, article 28.3.h) of the GDPR establishes
continuous supervision by the person in charge of the
treatment by indicating that the person in charge "will make available to the
responsible for all the information necessary to demonstrate the
compliance with the obligations established in this article
article, as well as to allow and contribute to the realization of autho-
audits, including inspections, by the person in charge or
another auditor authorized by said person in charge.
Regarding the performance of audits as an appropriate means
for the data controller to monitor
continues to the person in charge of the treatment, the Guidelines 07/2020
of the CEPD establish that: “99. The obligation to use
only to data processors "who provide
sufficient guarantees" contained in article 28, paragraph 1,
of the GDPR is an ongoing obligation. does not end in
time when the controller and the data processor
enter into a contract or other legal act. Instead, the controller
should, at appropriate intervals, verify the warranties of the
processor, including through audits and inspections when
proceed". (The translation is ours).
The Agency considers that TME has mitigated the risks as a result of
the investigation initiated and has increased the security measures
authority in order to guarantee the identity of the client. He has
submitted documentation to determine with certainty the mo-
moment in which the measures have been taken once produced
the facts.
Therefore, you are responsible for not having done everything you
could be expected to do, given the nature,
purposes or scope of the processing operation, in light of the
obligations imposed by the GDPR.

- Article 83.2.e) RGPD:

 Any previous infringement committed by the data controller:

It adduces MSDs that do not refer to the same type of offender.
The allegation adduced is upheld, in part, and it is only considered
infractions prior to the Agreement are considered as aggravating
Startup actions committed by TME, which are considered pertinent or
relevant.
It should be noted that recital 148 of the GDPR adds that
must refer to “any relevant prior violations” or “relevant
vante” of the translation of the original text in English “relevant”.
For this reason, we only consider the two procedures in which
sanctioned to TME (firm resolutions in administrative proceedings)
consequence of treatment without legitimacy for fraud of
identity.

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

102/106

Procedure No.

I lie

Resolution date
sanctioned

dora

Infraction imputed

gives

Sanction

PS/00453/2019
Fraudulent contracting of telephone lines without the consent of the person
affected.

03/18/2020

6.1. GDPR

40,000.00

PS/00235/2020

01/21/2021

6.1.GDPR

75,000.00

There is a change of ownership of the line in favor of a third party, without
had carried out any type of identity verification in this regard.

- Article 83.2.g) RGPD:

 Categories of personal data affected by the breach:

The personal data affected by the treatment has a
particularly sensitive as it enables identity theft.
ty.
The delivery of a duplicate SIM in favor of a different third party
of the legitimate owner is considered particularly serious since
enables the sending or receiving of calls, SMS, or access to the
data service, which becomes in the hands of the person
planter.
Once the duplicate is obtained, the path to the applications is opened.
tions and services that have as a recovery procedure
password sending an SMS with a code to be able to change
the passwords. In short, it enables identity theft
dad.
And although they have not been affected "Special categories of
personal data” as defined by the RGPD in article 9, this does not
means that the stolen data was not of a sensitive nature.
ble. It is not about the personal data that is required for the expedi-
tion of the duplicate of the card, if not of the card itself as
personal data associated with a telephone line owner of a
user, which is obtained with the purpose of supplanting your identity
to obtain access -among others- to banking applications or
electronic commerce, in order to interact and carry out
operations on your behalf, authenticating through a user
and password previously taken from that user, as well as
with double factor authentication when receiving the confirmation SMS
mation on your own mobile terminal where you will have the tar-
duplicate SIM card.
 Article 76.2.b) LOPDGDD:

 Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of treatment

Personal data processing:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

The development of the business activity carried out by TME
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

103/106

requires continuous and large-scale processing of data
customers' personal data, according to the number of telephone lines
mobile voice company reported in the "EIGHTH Background", which
positions TME as one of the telecommunications operators
largest tions in our country. Not applicable, as claimed
of TME, its application as a mitigating factor.

On the other hand, the following mitigating factors are taken into consideration:
- Article 83.2.c) RGPD:

 Measures taken by the person responsible to mitigate the damages and losses

damages suffered by the interested parties:

Positive, considering the complexity of implementing
New measures.
Namely:
(...).
Article 83.2.f) GDPR:

 Degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority:

Tall. The Agency considers that TME has cooperated fa-
vorable with research, providing answers to the ma-
majority of the requirements and forming part of the GT.

- Article 76.2.c) LOPDGDD:

 The benefits obtained as a result of the commission of the investment

fraction.

This Agency does not consider that TME has obtained a benefit
beyond receiving the cost price set for the
issuance of duplicate SIM cards.

- Article 76.2.h) LOPDGDD:

 Submission to conflict resolution mechanisms.

Various telecommunications operators, including
finds TME, signed with AUTOCONTROL a Protocol
that, without prejudice to the powers of the AEPD, pre-
sees mechanisms for the private resolution of controversies
tives to data protection in the field of contracting and
advertising of electronic communications services, dated
September 15, 2017. Protocol whose effective application
should be considered mitigating.

The allegations adduced in relation to the following attenuations are upheld-
you, which are taken into account:
- Article 83.2. j) GDPR:

Regarding adherence to approved certification mechanisms,
in accordance with article 42. TME has a System of
Management of Criminal Compliance accredited in accordance with the
UNE 19601 standard.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

104/106

The arguments adduced in relation to the mitigating factor are rejected
provided for in article 83.2.k) of the RGPD. TME does not prove the existence of
the economic losses suffered. The complexity of implementing new
measures, as well as the audit of the Organization and Management Model for
Crime Prevention has been assessed through the attention
Nuant provided for in article 83.2.c) RGPD. Finally, the attendance of
obligations derived from the applicable regulations operates both against persons
physical and legal entities.
Likewise, and following the criteria expressed by the SAN, Chamber of the Contents
cioso-administrative, Section 1, Judgment of May 5. 2021, Rec.
1437/2020, finally the provision in the
article 76.2.a) LOPDGDD, regarding the continuing nature of the infringement,
that does not attend According to this sentence: “Consider, on the other hand, that
the non-commission of a previous infringement should be considered as a mitigating factor.
Well, article 83.2 of the RGPD establishes that it must be taken into account
for the imposition of the administrative fine, among others, the circumstance
"e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment". This is an aggravating circumstance, the fact that
concurrence of the budget for its application implies that it cannot be all
taken into consideration, but does not imply or allow, as the act intends,
ra, its application as a mitigating factor”.

The allegation regarding the application of article
76.2.d) LOPDGDD: “The possibility that the conduct of the affected person had
could have induced the commission of the offence”.
TME has argued that the duplicates would not have been possible if the impersonator
dor had not carried out a previous illegitimate capture of the personal data
nals of said clients.
Well, the precept connects the conduct of the affected party with the commission of
an infringement: the possibility that the conduct of the interested party induces the
commission of the specific infraction imputed to the defendant by the
AEPD. Let us remember that TME is charged with the infringement of art. 5.1.f) of the
GDPR; fraud is not imputed to him, nor the treatment of data without legitimacy,
but a lack of guarantees of security measures that produces a
transfer of data to a third party.
Thus, in the case now examined, the infringement charged for lack of income
guarantees of security measures is an obligation imposed by the or-
legal order to the person in charge of the treatment, of which it is integral
responsible mind, in such a way that the conduct of the interested party (in his
case, supply by deception, carelessness or voluntarily your data to the third party.
zero that supplants it, since it must be considered that, in this case, the third
may have obtained the data without the intervention of the affected party) is independent
pending the deficient establishment, maintenance or control of the
security measures set by the data controller. The infringement
tion is unrelated to the action of the interested party and nothing that the latter does
mo would influence your commission.
On the other hand, it is considered that the precept focuses on behavior only
of the interested party and not of a third party interposed between the interested party and that
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

105/106

who commits the offence. That is, it seems that it directly links an action
tion or omission of the interested party with that induction. The performance of a third
ro, in what we could call a second phase -after a first of
obtaining the data-, against the person responsible for the treatment and the conduct
of the third party regarding the induction of the commission of the infraction, exceeding
area of action of the affected party. The interested party does not control what
does the third party with your data or the behavior of the third party. In addition, the
legislator has mentioned only the affected party and not a third party literally
of the precept.
In the exposed case, given that the person who has acted in front of the operator is
a third party and not the interested party, the precise assumption of fact would not occur
to apply this fader. It is the conduct of the third party (a criminal) that
posing as the interested party induces the controller to act self-
creating a duplicate SIM card.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been accredited, the director of the AEPD,
RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with CIF
A78923125, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5.a) of the RGPD and classified as very serious for prescription purposes in the article
72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, an administrative fine amounting to 900,000'00 euros
(nine hundred thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA,
S.A.U.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that she must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of
article 98.1.b) of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment term established in article
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to article 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17,
December, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the penalized person and the number of
proceeding that appears in the heading of this document, in the restricted account
nº ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the AEPD in the bank
caria CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in period
executive.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the payment
It will be valid until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with article 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

106/106

Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
director of the AEPD within a month from the day following the notification
cation of this resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act,
in accordance with the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm resolution may be suspended in administrative proceedings if the interest
sado expresses its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the AEPD, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the Agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in article 16.4 of the LPACAP. You must also transfer to the
Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing of the contentious appeal
so-administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the notification
cation of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the AEPD

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

