11.07.2022
Penalty for GDPR violation

In June, the National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at S.C. Delivery Solutions S.A. (Sameday) and found a violation of the provisions of art. 29, art. 32 para. (1) lit. b) and para. (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
SC Delivery Solutions S.A. (Sameday) was penalized for contravention with a fine of 14,825.70 lei (the equivalent of 3,000 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of reports filed by a natural person who reported that the database of S.C. Delivery Solutions S.A. (Sameday) is for sale on the website https://raidforums.com/Thread-SELLING-=ae-SAMEDAY-RO-Romanian-Postal-Service.
During the investigation, it was noted that S.C. Delivery Solutions S.A. (Sameday) is the authorized person of two companies for the processing of personal data, being obliged to take all necessary measures to systematically protect the processing of personal data of natural persons, as provided by art. 28 para. (3) lit. c) of the GDPR, including against disclosure and/or unauthorized access to data.
It was also found that personal data belonging to a number of 26566 natural persons concerned (AWB number and date - the transport document that must accompany the shipment of any parcel, courier codes, sender's name, recipient's name and surname, telephone number, address , delivery status, service type, package weight, amount to collect, delivery interval) were available for sale on the RaidForums forum and could be accessed using the link https://raidforums.com/Thread-SELLING-=æ-SAMEDAY- RO-Romanian-Postal-Service.
As such, S.C. Delivery Solutions S.A. was fined because it did not implement adequate technical and organizational measures in order to ensure a level of security corresponding to the processing risk for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, which led to the disclosure and/or unauthorized access to personal data for 26,566 persons targeted physical

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.