Arp-Hansen Hotel Group A/S is recommended for a fine
Date: 28-07-2020
Decision
Private companies
Police report
Supervision / self-management case
Basic principles
The Danish Data Protection Authority reports Arp-Hansen to the police and fines the company DKK 1,100,000 for failure to delete approx. 500,000 customer profiles.
The Danish Data Protection Authority became aware of the situation in connection with a supervisory visit to Arp-Hansen Hotel Group A/S (hereafter Arp-Hansen), where the supervisory authority reviewed a number of systems with a view to investigating whether Arp-Hansen had sufficient procedures to ensure that personal data was not stored for longer than was necessary in relation to the purposes for which the data was processed.
During the course of the process, the Danish Data Protection Authority established that a booking system in particular contained a lot of personal data which should have been deleted in accordance with Arp-Hansen's own set deletion deadlines. The inspectorate was also able to establish that there were so-called customer profiles which – according to Arp-Hansen's own deletion deadlines – should have been deleted several years earlier. In this connection, the supervisory authority is of the opinion that approx. 500,000 customer profiles should have been deleted at the time of the inspection visit.
"In a society where our personal data is registered and used to an ever-increasing extent, it is crucial that we as citizens can trust that our personal data is processed for legitimate purposes and that it is only stored for as long as is necessary, ” says Frederik Viksøe Siegumfeldt, head of the supervisory unit in the Danish Data Protection Authority, who adds:
"We choose to file a police report in a case such as the one in question because, in our opinion, Arp-Hansen has not been able to come up with factual reasons for the extensive storage of information."
The Danish Data Protection Authority has therefore fined Arp-Hansen DKK 1,100,000 for not complying with the regulation's requirement for deletion (storage limitation) in Article 5, subsection 1, letter e.
Do you want to know more?
Press inquiries can be directed to communications consultant Anders Due on tel. 29 49 32 83.