 

 

press release

 

The federal government is also very critical

to MS 365

Biadacz

 
Erfurt, December 21, 2022: As in my press release of November 26, 2022
described, the 104th data protection conference of the federal and state governments (DSK)
by responsible, Microsoft 365
found that proof
to operate in accordance with data protection law, on the basis of Microsoft
provided "Privacy Addendum dated September 15, 2022".
can be. As long as
in particular the necessary transparency about the
Processing of personal data from order processing for Microsofts
own purposes and whose legality is not proven
this proof cannot be provided.
The answer of the federal government to a question from the member of the Bundestag
Marc
Direction
(https://dserver.bundestag.de/btd/20/048/2004852.pdf, p. 44 ff.):
"Users have significant difficulties, the lawfulness of processing
prove personal data. This proof must go through
responsible bodies are provided. For one thing, it's not for everyone
It is clear at the time which processing is carried out and for what purpose
others, which processing activities are carried out by Microsoft on behalf of and which in
take your own responsibility. In particular for federal institutions
It is unclear on what legal basis processing under one's own responsibility
can take place. This ambiguity creates uncertainty for federal institutions
particular difficulties in proving that the data processing, e.g. B. from
Telemetry data within the legally specified purpose takes place or
is excluded. This is the only way that personal data can be processed
possible in an environment of this kind. ..."

same

(CDU)

goes

in

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

 
 
The TLfDI, Dr. Lutz Hasse:
“The unanimous findings and
Conclusions of the DSK are from more and more competent bodies and
Facilities checked. This process will continue and protect the
Strengthen privacy, which the data protection officers are now doing accordingly
be implemented."

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Hässlerstrasse 8
99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

