Results of the 96th Conference of
independent data protection supervisory
federal and state authorities
on the 7th/8th November 2018 in Munster

Stop E-Evidence Regulation!
protect the rights of data subjects, retained data
not aggravate storage.

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, November 8th, 2018

The conference of the independent federal data protection supervisory authorities
and the countries (data protection conference) appeals to everyone in the legislative
process participants, the EU Commission's proposal for an e-evidence
stop regulation.

With its proposal for an e-evidence regulation, the EU Commission
create an alternative to the formal legal assistance procedure and the
Investigating authorities faster access to communication data
enable. The law enforcement authorities of the EU member states should
Be empowered to identify telecommunications and internet service providers
services in other member states of the EU and also in countries outside
of the EU (third countries) directly for the issuance of inventory, access,
Commit transaction and content data.

Then companies based in Germany could publish
data to investigative authorities in other EU member states
even though the act being prosecuted is not a criminal offense at all in Germany.
This could, for example, be a pregnancy
be aborted or a political expression of opinion, if these are requested
relevant state is punishable by law. It is also to be feared that third countries
EU regulation as a blueprint for our own regulations.

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from November 8th, 2018 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
Those affected only have access to a legal remedy, if at all, upon request
to the member state, but their legal system is usually alien to them
 
is.
 
The problem of the so-called "data retention" of telecommunications
tion data is exacerbated significantly when foreign law enforcement agencies
authorities have direct access to such information.
 
The resolution is available here:
https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de/dsbk-ent/DSK_96-E-Evidence.html
 
 
Guidance on the processing of personal data for
Direct Marketing Purposes
 
With the General Data Protection Regulation, the previous data protection
regulations for direct advertising no longer apply. The privacy
conference explains in an orientation guide how the data protection
Basic Regulation for direct mail is to be understood.
 
The guidance is available here:
https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de/dsbk-ent/DSK_96-Werbung.pdf
 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 

The data protection conference consists of the independent data protection supervisory authorities
Federal and the states. The 96th conference took place on November 7th and 8th in Münster. Of the
The chair, which changes every year, organizes the meetings of the data protection conference and represents the
conference to the outside. 2018 leads the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
North Rhine-Westphalia presided.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

