1.  PURPOSE

These general guidelines have been adopted to provide a clear 
and uniform interpretation of the applicability of the General 
Data Protection Regulation (“the Regulation”) and the Data 
Protection Act, CAP. 586 of the Laws of Malta (“the Act”) in 
the political environment where political parties and candidates 
process personal data for the purposes of carrying out political 
campaigning and promoting their political ideologies and 
messages.

2.  DEFINITIONS

For the purposes of these guidelines, unless otherwise specified, 
the definitions contained in  the Regulation shall apply.  

Data controller shall mean any political party as defined under 
Article 2 of the General Elections Act, CAP. 354 of the Laws of 
Malta, Member of Parliament, movement or candidate who runs 
for election, be it a general election, local councils election or a 
European Parliament election, either on a political party’s ticket 
or independently;

Consent shall be explicit and the manner how a data subject 
shall signify agreement to the processing of personal data must 
involve a statement or a clear affirmative action; 

Direct marketing shall include the promotion of the political 
aims and ideals of the data controller.  The sending of a 
communication by a data controller where the nature of such 
communication is not political but is intended to politically 
influence the data subject by means of a personal message, 
such as the sending of greeting cards, shall also fall within the 
meaning of these general guidelines;

3.  LEGAL BASIS FOR PROCESSING

It is recognised that, to ensure a healthy democratic process, 
political parties and candidates, need to engage the interest of 
eligible voters by transmitting their political messages by means 
of a variety of communication methods.  

In this context, the data controller may process personal data, 
for the purpose of carrying out this marketing processing 
activity, only after obtaining the data subject’s consent. It is the 

responsibility of the data controller to demonstrate, at any time 
when requested, that the data subject has indeed consented to 
the processing of his or her personal data.

In terms of Article 9.2(d) the Regulation, political parties may, 
in the course of their legitimate activities and with appropriate 
guarantees, process special categories of  personal data 
concerning their registered members and of other persons who 
have regular contact with the party. 

The data controller shall take all necessary measures to identify 
itself in any political message sent for political campaigning 
purposes and shall observe the requirements for processing 
as listed under Article 5 of the Regulation, particularly, the 
purpose limitation principle, which establishes that personal 
data, legitimately collected by the data controller, shall be 
solely processed for the purpose for which such data has been 
originally collected.

4.  DOOR-TO-DOOR POLITICAL COMMUNICATION

The provisions of the Regulation and the Act shall not apply 
where no personal data is processed by the data controller for 
the purpose of carrying out a political campaign, for instance, 
where the communication material is manually distributed and 
dropped in letter boxes.  Persons engaged to distribute such 
material should, nevertheless, respect those households who 
would have indicated their objection on the letter boxes to 
receiving political or any other types of marketing material.

5.  PERSONALISED POLITICAL COMMUNICATIONS 
TRANSMITTED BY CONVENTIONAL MEANS – 
POSTAL SERVICES AND TELEPHONE/MOBILE

The data controller may use the personal data contained in the 
electoral register or in the printed or online telephone directory 
services to communicate personalised political campaigning 
material or voice messages to the respective registered voters 
or listed subscribers, unless the data subject gives notice to 
object such processing.

The data controller shall provide data subjects with clear 
information to appropriately inform them of their right to 
object, at no cost, from receiving further communication. 
The opt-out option must be included on each communication 

and provide the data subject with a clear and simple option 
to exercise such right. In the case of telephone calls, the data 
controller must respect the decision of those individuals who 
expressly indicate the wish not to proceed with the call and 
delete their personal contact details accordingly.

6.  POLITICAL COMMUNICATION SENT BY EMAIL, 
SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE (SMS) OR BY MEANS OF 
AN AUTOMATED CALLING MACHINE 

The data controller must ensure that political communications 
sent by electronic means are only addressed to data subjects 
who have given their prior consent or who have themselves 
provided their email addresses or mobile numbers during the 
membership enrolling process or during a political or related 
activity.

Where the contact details are not obtained directly from the 
individual but from other sources, such as activists or other 
third parties who are in contact with the data subject, the data 
controller must ensure that such consent had been obtained 
and documented. 

The data controller shall provide the data subject with the 
opportunity to opt-out from receiving further communications. 
An information clause must be included on each outgoing 
message informing the recipient of his right to oppose, at no 
charge and in a simple manner.  Whereas in the case of emails 
the use of an unsubscribe link is the best-practice technical 
solution, in the case of SMSs, the data controller shall adopt 
best-practice measures to ensure that the necessary contact 
information is provided to the data subject giving him or her an 
easy way to unsubscribe, such as including a contact number 
or email address on each and every message.

Where the data controller engages the services of a third 
party contractor to send bulk political communications on its 
behalf and specifically to mobile numbers which are held on 
the database of the same contractor, the data controller shall 
remain responsible for the messages that are transmitted.  In 
these circumstances, the data controller must ensure that the 
contractor has indeed obtained the consent of those recipients 
to whom the marketing messages are directed by retaining the 
necessary documentation indicating their prior consent. 

7.  THE USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA FOR POLITICAL 
CAMPAIGNING PURPOSES

The use of social media has become a widely adopted tool 
which may be used by a data controller to carry out a political 
campaign. This means that the data controller’s activities, 
carried out through the registered profile or account, shall 
be subject to the legal criteria and principles set out in the 
Regulation, where the principal legitimate basis for the 
processing of personal data shall be the data subject’s consent.

It shall be clarified that where a user of a social networking 
site, hence a data subject, associates himself with the profile 
or account of the data controller by, for instance, liking or 
following a page, that action shall be tantamount to consent.  
Consequently, any personal information available on the user’s 
profile, such as a mobile number or an email address, may be 
used by the data controller for political campaigning purposes. 
In any case, users should be provided with effective means, to 
exercise their right to object to the processing of their personal 
data for the purposes of the campaign, free of charge and 
without having to state the reason thereof.

8.  CONTACTING VOTERS ON ELECTION DAY 
ENCOURAGING THEM TO CAST THEIR VOTE

The data controller may, on election day, adopt a system 
designed to implement a structured and dedicated process to 
contact eligible voters and encourage them to cast their vote, 
provided that the contact details have been supplied by the 
data subject himself, obtained from a telephone directory or 
made available on an open social media profile or account.  A 
data subject shall, nevertheless, have the right to oppose from 
proceeding with the call or to be re-contacted.

9.  FINES

To guarantee fair and lawful processing, the data controller 
shall assume the legal responsibility to comply with these 
guidelines. If the Commissioner concludes that personal data 
was processed or may be processed in an unlawful manner, he 
may impose an administrative fine in terms of his powers
at law.

The Office of the Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

may be reached on the following contact details: 
Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

Floor 2, Airways House , High Street 

Sliema, SLM 1549, Malta. 

Tel: (356) 2328 7100 

E-mail: idpc.info@idpc.org.mt

Website: www.idpc.org.mt

General

Guidelines

on the processing of

personal data for political
campaigning purposes

Issued by the Information and Data Protection Commissioner

May 2017

(revised March 2019)

