 

 

 

International Working Group 
on Data Protection 
in Technology 
 
711.441.1 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

        23 March 2021 

P R E S S  R E L E A S E 

 
Working Paper on Data Portability and on the Tracking and Targeting Ecosystem published  
 
The  International  Working  Group  on  Data  Protection  in  Technology  (the  so-called  Berlin  Group), 
chaired by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk, 
has adopted two working papers prior to its 67th meeting.  
 
The Working Paper on the Risks emerging from the Tracking and Targeting Ecosystem in the 
Digital Advertising Market follows up on the Working Paper on Web Tracking and Privacy: Respect 
for context, transparency and control remains essential, which the Berlin Group published in 2013. 
Since then  the tracking  technologies  and the  dimensions  of  data gathered  in  big  data  bases have 
developed and increased significantly, especially with the ability to track users across multiple devices. 
The new paper outlines privacy and data protection concerns of the tracking, profiling and targeting 
ecosystem that can be used beyond digital advertising to seek to manipulate the opinion forming pro-
cess. The paper provides recommendations to lawmakers, regulators, authorities and the companies 
involved on how to address these concerns. 
 
Data  portability  is  the  principle  that  individuals  should  be  able  to  both  directly  access  and  require 
transfer of some or all personal data held by a controller, in a reusable digital form. It may be one 
solution to address or mitigate issues related to individual autonomy and access rights. The Working 
Paper “The Case for Data Portability as a Privacy Protection in the Digital  Age”  explores the 
concept of data portability and its relationship to other recognised privacy and data protection con-
cepts. The paper analyses the potential benefits data portability offers and reflects interrelated and 
complex policy issues to consider, both in the jurisdictional approach to data portability and in its im-
plementation.  
 
 
The Working Papers are available for download at www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-ser-
vice/veroeffentlichungen/working-paper/  
 
 
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Technology (Berlin Group) 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Technology (IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin Group”) 
includes representatives from Data Protection Authorities and international organisations dealing with privacy 
matters from all over the world. It was founded in 1983 at the initiative of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Pro-
tection, who has since then been chairing the Group. The group formerly met under the name International 
Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunication until 2019, when it was renamed to better reflect the 
focus of its work. The Group has adopted numerous recommendations (“Common Positions” and “Working Pa-
pers”) aimed at improving the protection of privacy in technology.  
 
More information about the Work of the Group and the documents adopted by the Group are available for 
download on the website of the Group at https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/berlin-group 
 

Secretariat 
Berliner Beauftragte für 
Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit 
Friedrichstr. 219 
D-10969 Berlin 
Phone   +49 / 30 / 13889 0 
Fax:      +49 / 30 / 215 5050 

 

E-Mail: 
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de 
 
Internet: 
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org 

 

The Working Group has been initiated 
by Data Protection Commissioners 
from different countries in order 
to improve privacy and data protection 
in telecommunications and media 

    