International Working Group
on Data Protection
in Technologies
 
711.441.2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

March 23, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

Berlin Group (IWGDPT) publishes working papers on data portability and web tracking

 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Technology (so-called Berlin Group),
headed by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk
has adopted two working papers in the run-up to its 67th (virtual) meeting on March 24, 2021.
 
The working paper "Risks arising from the tracking and targeting ecosystem in the digital advertising
market”, ties in with the working paper “Webtracking and privacy: The consideration of context,
Transparency and control remain indispensable”, which the Berlin Group published in 2013.
Since then, the tracking technologies and dimensions of data collected in Big Data databases have evolved
Data further developed and significantly enlarged. This also applies to the possibility of users over several
tracking across devices, which has uncovered a number of new privacy issues. The new paper
highlights the risks posed by the emerging tracking, profiling and targeting ecosystem that
can now also be used beyond digital advertising, for example to support opinion-forming processes
manipulate. The paper contains recommendations for legislators, regulators, authorities and those involved
companies on how to counter these risks.
 
Data portability is intended to enable individuals to access some or all of their personal
access data as well as request its transmission in a reusable digital form.
It can give consumers individual autonomy and extended access rights. The working paper "Ar-
for data portability as a means of data protection in the digital age" examines the con-
concept of data portability and its relationship to other recognized concepts for the protection of privacy
privacy and data protection. The paper analyzes the potential benefits that data portability offers,
and reflects interrelated and complex policy issues affecting both the legal approach of
Data portability and its implementation must be taken into account.
 
The working papers are available in English at www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-service/veroef-
publications/working-paper/ available. A German translation will appear shortly.
 
 
About the International Working Group on Privacy in Technology (“Berlin Group”)
The International Working Group on Privacy in Technology (IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin
Group”) consists of representatives of data protection authorities and organizations from all over the world
world concerned with protecting privacy. The working group was established in 1983 as part of the
International Data Protection Conference founded on the initiative of the Berlin State Data Protection Authority
has chaired it ever since. The group met until 2019 under the name International Working Group on
tenschutz in the telecommunications and was then renamed to better focus their work
to map. Since it was founded, the working group has made a large number of recommendations (“Common
points" and "working papers") to improve the protection of privacy in telecommunications
or technology adopted. Since the early 1990s, the group has been particularly involved
with the protection of privacy on the Internet.
 
More information about the working group and the documents adopted by the group are available at
available on the website of the working group: https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/berlin-group.
 
 
 

secretariat
Berlin representative for
Privacy and Freedom of Information
Friedrichstr. 219
D-10969 Berlin
Telephone +49 / 30 / 13889 0
Fax: +49 / 30 / 215 5050

 

E-mail:
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
Internet:
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org

 

The Working Group has been initiated
by Data Protection Commissioners
from different countries in order
to improve privacy and data protection
in telecommunications and media

