 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 25/2022 regarding the European Privacy Seal 

(EuroPriSe ) certification criteria for the certification of 

processing operations by processors 

 

Adopted on 13 September 2022 

Adopted 

 

1 

 

Table of contents 
1  

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................... 4 

2 

ASSESSMENT ...................................................................................................................... 5 

2.1 General remarks ............................................................................................................... 5 

2.2 Processing operations by a processor .............................................................................. 5 

2.3 Requirements from a legal perspective............................................................................ 5 

2.3.1 Record of processing activities .................................................................................. 6 

2.3.2 Applicants subject to Article 3.2 GDPR ...................................................................... 6 

2.4 Relationship controller-processor .................................................................................... 6 

2.5 Requirements for specific types of processing operations............................................... 8 

2.5.1 Statutory confidentiality obligations, professional secrets and special official secrets 
not based on statutory provisions ...................................................................................... 8 

2.5.2 Transfer of personal data to third countries ............................................................. 8 

2.6 Data protection by design and by default ........................................................................ 9 

2.7 Technical and organisational measures ......................................................................... 10 

2.8 Rights of the data subjects ............................................................................................. 10 

 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................................... 11 

FINAL REMARKS ................................................................................................................ 13 

 

3 

4 

 
 

Adopted  

 

2 

 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having  regard  to  Article  63,  Article  64(1)(c)  and  Article  42  of  the  Regulation  2016/679/EU  of  the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with 
regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to  the European  Economic Area (hereinafter “EEA”) Agreement and in  particular  to 
Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as  amended  by  the  Decision  of  the  EEA  joint  Committee  No 
154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 
 
Having regard to Article 64(1)(c) of the GDPR and Articles 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure. 
 
Whereas: 
 

(1)  Member  States,  supervisory  authorities,  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (hereinafter 
“the EDPB”) and the European Commission shall encourage, in particular at Union level, the 
establishment  of  data  protection  certification  mechanisms  (hereinafter  “certification 
mechanisms”)  and  of  data  protection  seals  and  marks,  for  the  purpose  of  demonstrating 
compliance with the GDPR of processing operations by controllers and processors, taking into 
account  the  specific  needs  of micro, small and medium-sized  enterprises2.  In addition, the 
establishment of certifications can enhance transparency and allow data subjects to assess 
the level of data protection of relevant products and services3. 

(2)  The certification criteria form an integral part of any certification mechanism. Consequently, 
the GDPR requires the approval of national certification criteria of a certification mechanism 
by the competent supervisory authority (Articles 42(5) and 43(2)(b) of the GDPR), or in the 
case of a European Data Protection Seal, by the EDPB (Articles 42(5) and 70(1)(o) of the GDPR).  
(3)  When a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve a certification pursuant 
to Article 42(5) of the GDPR, the main role of the EDPB is to ensure the consistent application 
of the GDPR, through the consistency mechanism referred to in Articles 63, 64 and 65 of the 
GDPR. In this framework, according to Article 64(1)(c) of the GDPR, the EDPB is required to 
issue an Opinion on the SA’s draft decision approving the certification criteria. 

(4)  This  Opinion  aims  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR,  including  by  the  SAs, 
controllers and processors in the light of the core elements which certification mechanisms 
have to develop. In particular, the EDPB assessment is carried out on the basis “Guidelines 
1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 
43 of the Regulation” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”) and their Addendum providing “Guidance 
on  certification  criteria  assessment”  (hereinafter  the  “Addendum”),  for  which  the  public 
consultation period expired on 26 May 2021. 

                                                     
1 References to “Member States” made throughout this Opinion should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 Article 42(1) of the GDPR. 
3 Recital 100 of the GDPR. 

Adopted  

 

3 

 

(5)  Accordingly, the EDPB acknowledges that each certification mechanism should be addressed 
individually and is without prejudice to the assessment of any other certification mechanism. 
(6)  Certification  mechanisms  should  enable  controllers  and  processors  to  demonstrate 
compliance  with  the  GDPR;  therefore,  the  certification  criteria  should  properly  reflect  the 
requirements and principles concerning the protection of personal data laid down in the GDPR 
and contribute to its consistent application. 

(7)  At the same time, the certification criteria should take into account and, where appropriate, 

be inter-operable with other standards, such as ISO standards, and certification practices.  

(8)  As  a  result,  certifications  should  add  value  to  an  organisation  by  helping  to  implement 
standardized and specified organisational and technical measures that demonstrably facilitate 
and  enhance  processing  operation  compliance,  taking  account  of  sector-specific 
requirements. 

(9)  The  EDPB  welcomes  the  efforts  made  by  scheme  owners  to  elaborate  certification 
mechanisms,  which  are  practical  and  potentially  cost-effective  tools  to  ensure  greater 
consistency with the GDPR and foster the right to privacy and data protection of data subjects 
by increasing transparency.  

(10)  The EDPB recalls that certifications are voluntary accountability tools, and that the adherence 
to a certification mechanism does not reduce the responsibility of controllers or processors 
for compliance with the GDPR or prevent SAs from exercising their tasks and powers pursuant 
to the GDPR and the relevant national laws.  

(11)  The  Opinion  of  the  EDPB  shall  be  adopted,  pursuant  to  Article  64(1)(c)  of  the  GDPR  in 
conjunction with Article 10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure, within eight weeks from the 
first working day after the Chair and the competent SA have decided that the file is complete. 
Upon decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into 
account the complexity of the subject matter. 

(12)  The EDBP Opinion focusses on the certification criteria. In case the EDPB requires high level 
information  on  the  evaluation  methods  in  order  to  be  able  to  thoroughly  assess  the 
auditability of the draft certification criteria in the context of its Opinion thereof, the latter 
does not encompass any kind of approval of such evaluation methods. 
 

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

1   SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

 

In accordance with Article 42(5) of the GDPR and the Guidelines, the “European Privacy Seal 
(EuroPriSe ) certification criteria for the certification of processing operations by processors” 
(hereinafter  the  “draft  certification  criteria”  or  “certification  criteria”)  was  drafted  by  the 
EuroPriSe  Cert GmbH (hereinafter the “EuroPriSe ”), a legal entity in Germany and submitted 
to the Landesbeauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit Nordrhein-Westfalen, the 
competent German supervisory authority in North Rhine-Westphalia (hereinafter the “DE SA 
(NRW)”). 

Adopted  

 

4 

 

  The DE SA (NRW) has submitted the draft criteria of a national certification scheme to the 
EDPB  and requested  an Opinion  of the Board  pursuant to Article 64(1)(c) GDPR  on 2  June 
2022. The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 7 July 2022. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

  The Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 2 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”) and its Addendum. Where this Opinion remains silent on a 
specific section of the draft certification criteria, it should be read as the Board not having any 
comments and not asking the DE SA (NRW) to take further action. 

2.1 General remarks  

 

In  the  opinion  of the  Board,  the scope of the certification  scheme is not made sufficiently 
clear. Notwithstanding the fact that the scope of the scheme is indicated between brackets 
(“(scope:  DE)”)  on  the  title  page  of  the  document,  this  page  also  contains  the  wording 
(‘European Privacy Seal’) which may still give the impression that the scheme has a European 
scope. Therefore, the Board encourages to make the scope of the certification scheme clear 
in the introductory text of the document.  

  The present certification is not a certification according to Article 46(2)(f) of the GDPR meant 
for international transfers of personal data.  It does not provide appropriate safeguards within 
the framework of transfers of personal data to third countries or international organisations 
under the terms referred to in letter (f) of Article 46(2). Indeed, any transfer of personal data 
to a third country or to an international organisation, shall take place only if the provisions of 
Chapter V of the GDPR are respected.  

2.2 Processing operations by a processor 

 

In the view of the Board, the assessment whether the applicant is a processor is part of the 
application  review  (and  not  of  the  criteria  pursuant  to  Article  42(5)  of  the  GDPR).  The 
certification body must assess the role based on the information and documents provided by 
the applicant when applying for a certification. Therefore, the Board recommends to leave 
section 1 out of the criteria pursuant to Article 42(5) of the GDPR and incorporate it to the 
application process. 

  The Board also notes that the current scheme provides for criteria pursuant to Article 28 GDPR 
to be met in the relationship of the processor with the controller (in section 2.2 of the scheme) 
and in the relationship of the processor with  other processors4 (sub processors) (in section 
2.3.3 of the scheme). In order to make clear that this does not imply that such sub-processor 
can  be  certified  under  this  scheme and that only  the processing operations performed  on 
behalf of the applicant is subject to certification, the EDPB recommends to clarify also in the 
introduction that sub processors cannot be certified under the EuroPriSe certification scheme.  

2.3 Requirements from a legal perspective 

                                                     
4 Other processors within the meaning of article 28 (2) and (4) of the GDPR. 

Adopted  

 

5 

 

2.3.1 Record of processing activities 

  The requirement to maintain a record of processing activities pursuant to Article 30 (2) of the 
GDPR is stipulated in section 2.1.1. of the certification criteria. According to EuroPriSe, this 
requirement “will be applicable as a rule”. However, the Board encourages to clarify whether 
the exemptions of Article 30 (5) of the GDPR could still apply in individual cases or if – in order 
to  meet  the  criteria  in  the  EuroPriSe scheme  –  such  a record  of processing activities must 
always be maintained by a certification customer regardless of the exemptions. 

2.3.2 Applicants subject to Article 3.2 GDPR 

  The  Board  notes  that  according  to  section  2.1.3.,  processors  who  do  not  have  an 
establishment  in  the  European  Union  (EU)  or  in  the  European  Economic  Area  (EEA)  shall 
designate  a  representative  in  accordance  with  Article  27  of  the  GDPR.  Consequently,  the 
Board  understands  that  the  EuroPriSe  certification  scheme  is  applicable  for  certification 
customers that are established outside the EU or the EEA. 

 Since this could imply that such a processor established outside the EU/EEA could also process 
personal  data  outside  the  EU/EEA,  the  Board  recommends  to  clarify  in  section  2.1.3.  that 
whenever a “transfer” within the meaning of Article 44 of the GDPR to a processor established 
outside the EU or the EEA takes place, the obligations stipulated in Chapter V of the GDPR 
must be fully respected. Furthermore, the Board recommends to clarify in section 2.1.3. that 
the  present  scheme  is  not  a  scheme  pursuant  to  Article  46  (2)(f)  GDPR.  The  Board 
recommends to clarify in section 2.1.3. that the applicant is not entitled to make use of the 
certification in a way that could give the impression that the certification itself is a transfer 
tool pursuant to Article 46 (2)(f) GDPR. Data controllers should, irrespective of the presence 
of  the  certification  seal,  nonetheless  perform  an  assessment  of  the  legislation  of  the  host 
country  before  transferring  data  to  the  non-EU  GDPR  certified  processor.  In  case  the 
legislation does not provide for the appropriate level of protection, supplementary measures 
should be put in place.5 

 A  data  processor  should  refrain  from  applying for certification  if they are aware  that their 
legislation  would  prevent them  from  complying with  the GDPR principles enshrined  in  the 
certification scheme. 

2.4 Relationship controller-processor 

 The  Board  notes  that  under  section  2.2  and  2.3  of  the  EuroPriSe  certification  criteria, 
reference is made to the requirements with regard to Article 28 GDPR. Section 2.2.1 of the 
certification  criteria  deal  with  the  existence  of  contractual  clauses  that  meet  all  the 
requirements of Article 28 GDPR. In this regard, the Guidance states that the processor draws 
up a Data Processing Agreement (DPA) template that meets all the requirements of Article 28 
GDPR. Notwithstanding the fact that the guidance also mentions that the template does not 
have to be used, the Board encourages to provide additional wording in this guidance to clarify 
that such a Data Processing Agreement template is without prejudice to the right of the data 

                                                     
5 See EDPB 01/2020  Recommendations on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance 
with the EU level of protection of personal data: https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/recommendations/recommendations-012020-measures-supplement-transfer. 

Adopted  

 

6 

 

controller to provide or negotiate the Article 28 GDPR clauses with the data processor without 
consequences on the certification. 

 Furthermore,  section  2.2.1  mentions  that  this  requirement  “must  be  modified  if  the 
respective processing by a processor on behalf of the controller is not based on a contract but 
on another legal instrument under Union or Member State law.” However, when other legal 
instruments are in place, the requirement of section 2.2.1 is not applicable. In these cases 
such  contractual  clauses  are  not  required.  The  Board  recommends  to  modify  the  wording 
accordingly.  

 Section  2.2.1  instructs  the  Certification  Body  to  examine  “whether  the  relevant  legal 
instrument  complies  with  the  requirements  of  Art.  28  GDPR”,  accompanied  by  a  footnote 
which  explains  that  “this  constellation  is  not  considered  in  more  detail  in  this  v2.1  of  the 
criteria  catalogue  due  to  lack  of  practical  relevance”.  When  certain  criteria  lack  practical 
relevance, they should not be part of the criteria catalogue. The Board therefore recommends 
to delete these sentences from section 2.2.1.   

 The requirement in section 2.2.1, point 2 e) of the criteria in detail should not just repeat the 
text of Article 28, but instead the Board recommends to further specify the assistance that 
the processor should  or could offer for the fulfillment of the controller’s obligation to respond 
to requests for exercising data subject rights. This, in order to reflect the actual operational 
options the processor and the controller have, i.e. to what extent the controller is practically 
dependent on the assistance of the controller for the exercise of data subject rights (support 
being imperative) or the controller merely prefers (some kind of) support from the processor 
on this issue (support being elective). The requirement should also stipulate that such clauses 
should be in line with the GDPR responsibility of the controller regarding data subject rights 
and  not  unduly  transfer  this  responsibility  to  the  processor.6   The  EDPB  recommends  to 
modify  requirement 2.2.1  so  that it is taken into  account   to  what  extent the controller is 
actually dependent on the processor for the assistance of the processor regarding data subject 
rights. 

 Section 2.2.2 (point 8 of the criteria in detail) states that the processor provides all “necessary 
information” to demonstrate compliance with Article 28 GDPR. It is not completely clear what 
documents this requirement is specifically referring to, as the list of documents is open ended, 
and  the  term  “necessary  information”  rather  vague.  The  Board  therefore  recommends  to 
identify  an  exhaustive  list  of  documents/information  that  has  to  be  checked  by  the 
Certification Body to verify if this criteria is fulfilled or not. Furthermore, this criterion should 
clarify that this documentation/information shall be provided to the Certification Body. 

 Section  2.3.2  states  that  “the  processor  shall  have  concluded  contracts  with  all  other 
processors  that  impose  the  same  data  protection  obligations  as  set  out  in  the  contract(s) 
between  the  controller(s)  and  the  processor  on  that  other  processor”.  To  enhance  to 
readability, the Board encourages to slightly modify the last part of the sentence. For example, 
“on that other processor” could be changed into “sub-processor”. 

 Section 2.3.2 (point 1a of the requirement in detail) states that the exact time period or the 
criteria according to which it is determined shall be specified. For reasons of clarity, the Board 
recommends to include in this requirement that these specifications on the duration of the 

                                                     
6 This paragraph should be read this in conjunction with paragraph 35, 36 and 37. 

Adopted  

 

7 

 

processing  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  data  processing 
agreement between the controller and the processor. 

2.5 Requirements for specific types of processing operations 

2.5.1 Statutory confidentiality obligations, professional secrets and special official secrets not 
based on statutory provisions 

 The Board notes  that the requirement stipulated in section 2.4.1. “is only  applicable if the 
processing operations to be certified are exclusively resp. mainly used by controllers who are 
subject to special confidentiality / secrecy obligations.” In the view of the Board, it is unclear 
whether this requirement applies in  case only “few” controllers that are subject to special 
obligations use the processing operations of the certified processor. Furthermore, it is unclear 
in which circumstances the term “mainly” is fulfilled. Therefore, the Board recommends to 
clarify section 2.4.1 accordingly. 

 In  addition  to footnote 63  of  the EuroPriSe  certification  scheme,  the Board encourages  to 
provide  further  examples  in  the  “Guidance”  of  section  2.4.1.  regarding  how  a  contract 
template for a data processing agreement could address specific confidentiality obligations 
under EU law or Member State law.7 

2.5.2 Transfer of personal data to third countries 

 The Board notes that section 2.4.2 stipulates requirements regarding Chapter V of the GDPR. 
However, the EuroPriSe certification is not itself a transfer instrument for transfers of personal 
data to third countries or international organisations pursuant to Article 46(2)(f) of the GDPR. 
In  this  context,  the  Board  recommends  to  clarify  in  section  2.4.2  that  the  EuroPriSe 
certification  scheme  itself  is  not  a  transfer  instrument  according  to  Article  46(2)(f)  of  the 
GDPR, as it  does  not  provide  appropriate safeguards within  the framework of transfers  of 
personal data to third countries or international organisations under the terms referred to in 
letter (f) of Article 46(2). In addition, the Board recommends to include the obligation of the 
certification applicant to inform the controller about the fact that the EuroPriSe certification 
scheme itself is not a transfer instrument according to Article 46(2)(f) of the GDPR. 

 Furthermore,  the  Board  recommends  to  clarify  in  section  2.4.2  that  these  specific 
requirements are only applicable when the certification applicant (as processor) is transferring 
personal  data  to  a  data  importer  in  a  third  country  and  to  stipulate  a  requirement  for 
certification applicants to substantiate and document their choice for a particular transfer tool 
pursuant to Chapter V of the GDPR.  

 Section 2.4.2.1 stipulates general requirements regarding the transfer tools of Chapter V of 
the GDPR.8 In the view of the Board, such general requirements are not auditable and could 
lead to inconsistencies in the application of the EuroPriSe certification scheme. While there 

                                                     
7 The examples could be similar to the “use cases” of section 2.4.2.1. 
8 « Here, it SHALL be assessed (and documented) on a case-by-case basis and, as the case may be, in 
collaboration with the importer (recipient of the personal data in the third country), if there is anything in the 
law or practice of the third country that may impinge on the effectiveness of the appropriate safeguards 
contained in the transfer tools under Art. 46 GDPR. If this is the case, the processor SHALL implement (and 
document) supplementary measures that fill these gaps in the protection and bring it up to the level required 
by EU law. In this respect, technical measures, organisational measures and additional contractual measures 
can be considered, whereby it may be necessary to combine several of these measures in individual cases. » 

Adopted  

 

8 

 

are “use cases” to give examples on the application of the EuroPriSe certification scheme, the 
Board notes that according to EuroPriSe, such “use cases” and “guidance” are not part of the 
normative  criteria.  Therefore,  this  Opinion  does  not  contain  conclusions  on  the  correct 
application of the GDPR in the “use cases” that are provided in section 2.4.2. 

 As a result, since the uses cases address supplementary measures, the Board recommends to 
include more specifications regarding the assessment of compliance with the data exporter 
obligations  stipulated  in  Chapter  V.  In  particular,  regarding  the  implementation  of 
supplementary measures, the EDPB Recommendations on measures that supplement transfer 
tools shall be referred to in the criteria.9 

 Finally, the Board notes that section 2.4.2.1. stipulates requirements regarding Article 49 of 
the GDPR. In this context, the Board recommends to include a requirement of the applicant 
to  provide  specific  information  to  the  certification  body  as  to  which  situations  and  under 
which conditions the applicant would rely on the exemption of Article 49 of the GDPR. 

2.6 Data protection by design and by default 

 Section  2.5.3  states  that  this  requirement  does  not  apply  to  processing  operations  by 
processors that are used by the principals (controllers) for many different purposes. The term 
‘many’ is too open to be used by a Certification Body to verify conformity. The Board therefore 
recommends to  give more a precise indication  of when  this requirement is applicable and 
when it is not, by for instance quantifying the amount of purposes that make it impossible to 
apply this requirement (for example: “three or more purposes”). 

 In subsection 2.5.3.1 the controller is obliged to use a leaflet which contains information on 
relevant  data  protection  aspects.  Under  point  2,  it  is  stated  that  the  leaflet  shall  contain 
information on the designation of potential legal bases on which the controller can rely, as 
the case may be. The Board recommends to delete this point from the criteria catalogue, as it 
interferes with the responsibility of the controller to define the appropriate legal basis and 
ensure that all conditions for this legal basis are met. This is without prejudice to the obligation 
of the processor to immediately inform the controller if, in its opinion, an instruction infringes 
this  Regulation  or  other  Union  or  Member  State  data  protection  provisions,  pursuant  to 
Article 28 (3) GDPR. 

 Subsection 2.5.3.1 contains the obligation for the processor to have designated the support 
services with regard to responding to requests for the exercise of data subject rights in the 
leaflet.  For  clarification  reasons,  and  to  align  with  Article  28  (3)  (e)  GDPR,  the  Board 
encourages to modify this sentence as follows: “Designation of the services of the processor 
with regard to assist the controller in responding to requests for the exercise of data subject 
rights…”. 

 Subsection 2.5.3.2 contains an obligation to draw up a model form for a declaration of consent 
or to release from confidentiality if consent is the only legal basis for the use of the processing 
operations  to  be  certified.  The  same  obligation  applies  if  the  processing  operations  to  be 
certified involve a  transfer of personal data to  third countries and if consent serves as the 
legitimation for said transfer. Although such a model might be helpful for some controllers, in 

                                                     
9 See EDPB 01/2020  Recommendations on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance 
with the EU level of protection of personal data https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/recommendations/recommendations-012020-measures-supplement-transfer.  

Adopted  

 

9 

 

particular small and medium sized enterprises, the Board recommends to delete this specific 
requirement,  as  acquiring  consent  is  not  the  responsibility  of  the  processor  but  of  the 
controller, and thus cannot serve as a criteria for the processor to demonstrate compliance 
with the GDPR, which, in the end, is the purpose of GDPR certification.  

2.7 Technical and organisational measures 

 The  Board  notes  that  referring  to  the  risk  analysis  in  section  3.1.1.1.  and  3.1.5.1,  it  is  not 
entirely  clear which risks  are  being  addressed  (e.g. those of  the data subjects).  The Board 
therefore  recommends  specifying  that  the  risks  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  data 
subjects  are  addressed.  Furthermore,  the  document  refers  in  the  guidelines  of  several 
requirements to a classification of risks, however, in none of the requirements a clarification 
of this classification has been made. For the sake of clarity, the Board therefore recommends 
adding in Section 3.1.1.1 and Section 3.1.5.1 a reference to the classification of risks regarding 
the different types of risks with regard to the data subjects concerned.  

 In  section  3.1.1.3,  the  Board  acknowledges  the  intention  of  EuroPriSe  to  highlight  the 
importance of  implementing  access control  mechanisms when  interacting with web-based 
services.  However,  the  current  wording  “this  is  particularly  ensured  when  interacting  with 
web-based services” might indicate that these control mechanisms are not as important or 
obligatory  in  all  other  cases.  The  Board  therefore  encourages  to  either  delete  this  sub 
sentence or rephrase it accordingly.  

 The requirement in section 3.1.2.1. stipulates the processor’s obligation to demonstrate that 
“the  storage  duration  of  the  log  data  can  be  configured  resp.  is  actually  configured  in 
consideration of the existing resp. assumed risk”. However, the Board notes that according to 
Article 5 (1)(c) of the GDPR, the storage duration needs to be adequate, relevant and limited 
to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which the data is being processed. The 
Board therefore encourages adding a reference to consider not only the risks but the purpose 
of the processing as well.  

 The  Board  furthermore  notes  that  the  “Requirement  in  a  nutshell”  in  section  3.1.2.1  and 
section  3.1.2.2.  are  identical,  although  the  requirements  “in  detail”  deal  with  different 
aspects. For the sake of clarity, the Board encourages to consider this differentiation in the 
“requirements in a nutshell” as well. 

2.8 Rights of the data subjects 

 As a consequence of the recommendations made by the Board on sections 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 
pertaining to contractual clauses on the assistance to be provided by the processor to the 
controller  to  facilitate  the  exercise  of  data  subjects  rights,  the  Board  also  recommends  to 
reflect and take into account such relevant differences in the contractual clauses in Chapter 
IV  of  the  EuroPriSe  scheme.  Also  the  Board  recommends  to  modify  the  same  approach 
reflected  in  the  requirements  (4.1-4.8)  for  all  the  data  subjects  rights  (4.2-4.8),  generally 
phrased  as  an  obligation  for  the  processor  to  implement  ‘technical  and  organizational 
measures’  without  any  further  specification  of  such  measures.  Such  modifications  should  
reflect  the  significant  differences  in  the  various  data  subjects’  rights,  since  some  of  those 
rights will always be applicable (a), some will depend on a further legal assessment of the 
situation  (b)  and  some  will  depend  on  a  substantial  appreciation  (c).  Consequently 

Adopted  

 

10 

 

responsibilities of the controller and the processor pertaining to (b) and (c) will have to be 
clarified in the contractual clauses.  

 The requirement in section 4.1 is unspecific as to ‘which information is relevant with regards 
to the  controllers’ information obligations towards data subjects’ that shall be provided  by 
the  processor.  The  Board  recommends  a  further  specification  taking  into  account  the 
elements mentioned in Articles 13 and 14 of the GDRP. 

 Regarding the requirement in section 4.8, the Board considers that the controller is in charge 
of deciding the purposes and means of the processing, and it would therefore appear to be 
out of the sphere of the responsibility of a processor. Therefore, the Board recommends to 
further  specify  which  kind  of  support  the  processor  should  provide  with  regards  to  the 
exercise of the right not to be subjected to a decision based solely on automated processing, 
including profiling.  

3   CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

 By way of conclusion, the EDPB considers that the EuroPriSe certification criteria may lead to 
an inconsistent application of the GDPR and the following changes need to be made in order 
to fulfill the requirements imposed by Article 42 of the GDPR in light of the Guidelines and the 
Addendum: 

 regarding the “scope of the scheme”, the Board recommends: 

1)  to  leave  out  section  1  of  the  criteria  pursuant  to  Article  42(5)  of  the  GDPR  and 

incorporates it to the application process. 

2)  to  clarify  in  the  introduction  that  sub  processors  cannot  be  certified  under  the 

EuroPriSe certification scheme.  
 

 regarding the “applicants subject to Article 3.2 GDPR”, the Board recommends: 

1)  to include a reminder in section 2.1.3. that whenever a “transfer” within the meaning 
of Article 44 of the GDPR to a processor established outside the EU or the EEA takes 
place, the obligations stipulated in Chapter V of the GDPR must be fully respected.  
 

2)  to  clarify  in  section  2.1.3.  that  the  present  scheme  is  not  a  scheme  pursuant  to 

Article 46 (2)(f) of the GDPR GDPR.  

3)  to  clarify  in  section  2.1.3.  that  the  applicant  is  not  entitled  to  make  use  of  the 
certification in a way  that could give the impression that the certification itself  is a 
transfer tool pursuant to Article 46 (2)(f) GDPR. 

 
 regarding the “relationship controller-processor”, the Board recommends: 

1)  to adjust the wording of the requirement of section 2.2.1 so that it is clear that when 
other legal instruments are in place, the requirement of Section 2.2.1 is not applicable.  

2)  to delete sentences in section 2.2.1 with regard to  a “lack of practical relevance”. 

 

Adopted  

 

11 

 

 

3)  to  modify  requirement  2.2.1  so  that  it  is  taken  into  account    to  what  extent  the 
controller is actually dependent on the processor for the assistance of the processor 
regarding data subject rights. 

4)  to identify an exhaustive list of documents in section 2.2.2 (point 8 of the requirement 
in detail) that has to be checked by the Certification Body to verify if this criteria  is 
fulfilled or not. Furthermore, this criterion should clarify that this information shall be 
provided to the Certification Body. 

5)  to  include  in  section  2.3.2  (point  1a  of  the  requirement  in  detail)  that  the 
specifications  on  the  duration  of  the  processing  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant provisions of the data processing agreement between the controller and the 
processor. 

 regarding the “statutory confidentiality obligations, professional secrets and special official 
secrets not based on statutory provisions”, the Board recommends: 

1)  to include an explanation of the term “mainly used by controllers” in section 2.4.1. 

 

 regarding the “transfer of personal data to third countries”, the Board recommends: 

1)  to include a reminder in section 2.4.2 that the EuroPriSe certification scheme itself is 
not a certification according to Article 46(2)(f) of the GDPR meant for international 
transfers  of  personal  data  and  therefore  does  not  provide  appropriate  safeguards 
within the framework of transfers of personal data to third countries or international 
organisations under the terms referred to in letter (f) of Article 46(2). 
 

2)  to include the obligation of the certification applicant to inform the controller about 
the  fact  that  the  EuroPrise  certification  scheme  itself  is  not  a  transfer  instrument 
according to Article 46(2)(f) of the GDPR. 
 

3)  to  clarify  in  section  2.4.2  that  these  requirements  are  only  applicable  when  the 
certification applicant (as processor) is transferring personal data to a data importer 
in  a  third  country  and  to  stipulate  a  requirement  for  certification  applicants  to 
substantiate  and  document  their  choice  of  a  particular  transfer  tool  pursuant  to 
Chapter V of the GDPR.  

4)  to include more specifications regarding the assessment of compliance with the data 
In  particular,  regarding  the 
exporter  obligations  stipulated 
implementation  of  supplementary  measures,  the  EDPB  Recommendations  on 
measures that supplement transfer tools shall be referred to in the criteria. 

in  Chapter  V. 

 

5)  to  include  the  requirement  in  Section  2.4.2  that  the  certification  applicant  must 
provide specific information to the certification body in which situations and under 
which conditions he would rely on the exemption of Article 49 of the GDPR. 

 regarding data protection by design and by default, the Board recommends: 

1)  to  give  more  a  precise  indication  of  when  the  requirement  of  section  2.5.3  is 

applicable. 

Adopted  

 

12 

 

 

2)  to delete from the criteria catalogue in subsection 2.5.3.1 under point 2, the part in 
which  is  stated  that  the  leaflet  shall  contain  information  on  the  designation  of 
potential legal bases on which the controller can rely. 

3)  to  delete  from  subsection  2.5.3.2  the  obligation  to  draw  up  a  model  form  for  a 
declaration of consent or to release from confidentiality if consent is the only legal 
basis for the use of the processing operations to be certified.  

 regarding “technical and organisational measures”, the Board recommends: 

1)  to  specify  in  section  3.1.1.1.  and  section  3.1.5.1  that  the  risks  to  the  rights  and 

freedoms of the data subjects are addressed. 

2)  to include in section 3.1.1.1 and section 3.1.5.1 a reference to the classification of risks 

regarding the different types of risks with regard to the data subjects concerned. 

  Regarding the rights of data subjects, the Board recommends: 

1)  to reflect and take into account such relevant differences with regard to the assistance 
of the processor (see recommendations on sections 2.2.1 and 2.2.2) in the contractual 
clauses in Chapter IV of the EuroPriSe scheme.  

2)  to modify  the same approach reflected  in the requirements (4.1-4.8) for all the data 
subjects  rights  (4.2-4.8),  generally  phrased  as  an  obligation  for  the  processor  to 
implement ‘technical and organizational measures’ without any further specification 
of such measures.  

3)  to  further  specify  requirement  4.1  (right  to  information)  taking  into  account  the 

elements mentioned in Articles 13 and 14 of the GDRP.  

4)  to further specify which kind of support the processor should provide in requirement 

4.8. 

 

FINAL REMARKS 

4 
 

 This  Opinion  is  addressed  to  the  DE  SA  (NRW)  and  will  be  made  public  pursuant  to 
Article 64(5)(b) of the GDPR. 

 According  to  Article  64(7)  and  (8)  of  the  GDPR,  the  DE  SA  (NRW)  shall  communicate  its 
response to this Opinion to the Chair by electronic means within two weeks after receiving 
the Opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. Within the same period, it 
shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to follow the Opinion of 
the Board, it shall provide  the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
Opinion, in whole or in part. 

 The EDPB  recalls that,  pursuant  to  Article 43(6) of the GDPR, the DE  SA  (NRW) shall make 
public the certification criteria in an easily accessible form, and transmit them to the Board 
for inclusion in the public register of certification mechanisms and data protection seals, as 
per Article 42(8) of the GDPR. 

 

Adopted  

 

13 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 
The Chair 
 
(Andrea Jelinek) 
 

Adopted  

 

14 

