1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00244/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated December 28, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against CYNGASA, S.L. with CIF B70537774 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the claimant, when requesting a report of
working life has learned that although their employment relationship was
initially arranged with the company CYNGASA on 08/04/2020, this company
he took his social security leave without his knowledge on 08/07/2020 and was given
registered again on 08/10/2020 in the company CALDERERIA Y SOLDURA DE
ESTRUCTURAS METALICAS, S,L', without the consent of the
claimant to CYNGASA for the transfer of their personal data to said company.

Together with the claim, it provides a work life report

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/01392/2021, transfer of
said claim to the claimed party on February 26, 2021, so that he could proceed with his
analysis and report to this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

No response has been received to this request.

THIRD: On May 11, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the
claimant.

FOURTH: On July 14, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FACTS

FIRST: The claimant, when requesting a work life report, has been aware of
that the claimed company transferred your personal data to a third company without your
consent.

SECOND: On July 25, 2021, the claimant is notified of the settlement agreement
beginning of this procedure, turning said agreement into a resolution proposal
in accordance with articles 64.2.f) and 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP), to the
not make the claimed allegations within the indicated period.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights, in its article 4.11 defines the consent of the
interested party as "any manifestation of free will, specific, informed and
unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a
clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that concerns you”.

In this sense, article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes that “in accordance with the
provided in article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is understood as
consent of the affected party, any manifestation of free will, specific,
informed and unequivocal by which it accepts, either by means of a declaration or
a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that concerns you”.

III

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time,
considers that the facts denounced, that is, transferring the personal data of the
claimant to the BOILER AND WELDING OF STRUCTURES company
METALICAS, S.L. without the prior consent of the owner of said personal data
constitute a violation of article 6 of the RGPD.

IV

Article 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, are considered very serious and will prescribe
after three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

c) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each control authority will have
of all the following corrective powers indicated below:

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

In the present case we are facing negligent action of the entity

claimed (article 83.2 b) when the personal data of the claimant is transferred to the
company of BOILER AND WELDING OF METAL STRUCTURES,
SL without the prior consent of the owner of said data.

In addition, basic personal identifiers are affected (art.

83.2 g), such as name and surname, your social security number, work history,
and so on.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CYNGASA, S.L., with CIF B70537774, for an infringement of the
article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of 5,000 euros
(five thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CYNGASA, S.L.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to article 62 of the Law
58/2003, of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and
the procedure number that appears at the top of this document, in
restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
The firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other records provided for in article 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

