
LfD sets up a hotline for clubs - other advice is limited to online offers
On my own account



In view of the numerous inquiries about the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the Lower Saxony State Commissioner for Data Protection (LfD) is now increasingly relying on its online offer for advice. Clubs will initially continue to be advised by telephone via a hotline set up specifically for this purpose.
Inquiry pressure is still high
When the GDPR came into force on May 25, 2018, the number of inquiries to the LfD increased significantly. One of the reasons for this was the immensely increased need for advice. "The pressure to inquire is still high in many areas," says Dr. Christoph Lahmann, deputy state data protection officer. "Therefore, we have no choice but to focus our advice on online offers from now on." Individual advice by telephone, e-mail or letter is no longer possible. However, responsible bodies can find a variety of orientation aids, templates and FAQs on the GDPR on the LfD website.
Focus is on legal tasks
At the same time, the LfD has to limit its telephone times until further notice. The central telephone number 0511-120-4500 can now be reached Monday, Wednesday and Friday between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. "We need to take these steps to be able to fulfill our legal obligations," said Dr. lahman. "This includes in particular the timely processing of complaints, the examination of reported data breaches and the support of company data protection officers."
Hotline for clubs and associations
Clubs and associations should initially continue to be able to receive individual advice. Since there is a great deal of uncertainty in relation to the GDPR, there will be a dedicated hotline for them. This can be reached Monday to Wednesday between 10 a.m. and 12 p.m. on 0511-120-4576. "We're showing that we want to support the volunteers," says Dr. lahman. "But we cannot say how long we can maintain this offer in view of the tense situation." Overall, the LfD received more than 8,000 inquiries in the first three quarters of this year. In the whole of 2017, there were around 4,650. To make matters worse, the LfD now has to comply with tight legal deadlines in the event of complaints under the GDPR. If she doesn't, she's threatened with lawsuits.



.




LfD online help (excerpt)

Answers to frequently asked questions about the GDPR



Small business transition checklist



Must-have lists for data protection impact assessments



Brief papers on the application of the GDPR



Notes on the record of processing activities








Press release as PDF download







The State Commissioner for Data Protection Lower Saxony
Prinzenstrasse 5
30159 Hanover


phone
0511 120-4500


fax
0511 120-4599


Write an e-mail to the contact person




