 

 

 

1/7

 
Litigation Chamber
Decision on the merits 67/2021 of 4 June 2021

 

 
File number: DOS-2019-01315
 
Subject: Complaint relating to the lack of timely response to a request
erasure by a banking institution

 

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke

Hijmans, chairman;

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and

to the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on the

data protection), hereinafter GDPR;

Having regard to the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority (hereinafter

ACL);

Having regard to the Rules of Procedure as approved by the House of Representatives on 20

December 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

Considering the documents in the file;

 

Made the following decision regarding:

The complainant:

Mrs X,

The defendant:

 S.A.Y; having as counsel Me T. Léonard and Me O. Guerguinov, lawyers,

whose firm is established at 1050 Brussels, avenue de la Couronne 224.

 

 

 



1. Procedural Feedback

Decision on the merits 67/2021- 2/7

Having regard to the complaint filed on October 9, 2018 by the complainant with the Authority for the Protection of

data (ODA);

Considering the admissibility decision of the First Line Service (SPL) of the APD of March 12, 2019;

Having regard to the decision taken by the Litigation Chamber during its session of April 2, 2019 to seize

the Inspector General on the basis of Articles 63, 2° and 94, 1° LCA and the referral dated April 4, 2019;

Having regard to the report and minutes of the Inspector General's investigation sent on January 9, 2020 to the

Litigation chamber;

Having regard to the letter of January 21, 2020 from the Litigation Chamber informing the parties of its decision

to consider the file as being ready for substantive processing on the basis of article 98 LCA

and communicating to them a timetable for the exchange of conclusions;

Having regard to the complainant's letter of February 1, 2020;

Having regard to the conclusions of the defendant filed by its counsel and received on February 19, 2020.

2. Facts and subject of the complaint

1. On July 9, 2018, the complainant filed a request for opposition and erasure of certain

data concerning her from the defendant (agency of (…)), based on the information

provided regarding the exercise of their rights under the terms of the “Privacy Statement” available

on the defendant's website.

2. By letter dated 23 July 2018, the team responsible for data protection issues and

of private life of the defendant replies to him that he has followed up on his request to oppose

the use of its data for marketing and profiling purposes. The defendant informs

the complainant on the data that she processes concerning her and explains the reasons

for which it cannot erase all the data concerning it, in particular those in

relation to the products from which the plaintiff benefits, in these terms:

“(…) Unfortunately, we cannot comply with your request to delete

data. Indeed, with regard to closed products, we have the legal obligation

to keep certain personal data after the termination of a contract related to its

particular product. This retention period may vary between different products (eg.

e.g. credit products must be archived for up to 30 years after termination of the

contract). We confirm that at the end of the legal archiving period, this data

are deleted automatically. This deadline has not yet been reached for your products

closed.



Decision on the merits 67/2021- 3/7

In addition, you still have "open" products in the Bank. As part of the execution

of our contractual obligations towards you and the fulfillment of our obligations

legal, some data must inevitably be processed, otherwise we are

impossible to fulfill our mission”.

Fifteen (15) pages of appendices containing account numbers, bank cards,

contract numbers and other personal data relating to the complainant are

communicated to the latter in the appendix to this letter.

This letter also informs the complainant of the possibility of exercising her right to

rectification with his agency as well as the possibility of filing a complaint with

of the Data Protection Authority (DPA).

3. On July 31, 2018, the complainant informed her agency of (…) of her wish to exercise her right to

rectification concerning two categories of data and therefore:

-

-

asks for the correction of the mention relating to his professional activity which indicates

erroneously that it is used;

is surprised by the mention of different bank cards which she says she does not have

knowledge (…) and asks for additional explanations concerning them.

4. On August 29, 2018, the defendant's (…) agency responded to the complainant's request and

informs him that he has submitted a request for rectification of his activity to the head office

professional in order to indicate the mention “retired”. She also gives him a

explanation concerning the bank cards in question.

5. By letter dated September 4, 2018, still addressed to the agency of (…), the complainant acknowledges

of the request for correction of the statement relating to his professional activity and request

the deletion of the mention of extract withdrawal cards and the indication of the mention “

closed” with regard to the Mastercard card.

6. By letter dated 21 September 2018, the team responsible for data protection issues

and privacy of the defendant confirms the execution of the correction of the mention relating

to the complainant's professional activity. The defendant specifies that this letter does not

contains no information relating to bank cards because these mentions come under the

management of the complainant's products by the agency and not a request for direct rectification

of the personal data of the complainant processed by the team in charge of the questions of

data protection and privacy.

7. On October 9, 2018, i.e. very shortly after receipt of the letter referred to above

above (35 days after her request to the defendant), the plaintiff filed a complaint

from the ODA. The defendant's interpretation in this respect is that, according to all



Decision on the merits 67/2021- 4/7

likelihood, the plaintiff, wrongly according to the defendant, considered that the absence of any

indication relating to his requests concerning bank cards should be interpreted as

a refusal by the defendant to act on it. The defendant explains in submissions that in

reality “all that remained was for his agency to introduce into the system the modifications

techniques related to the cards in question. Unfortunately, the agency forgot to carry out these

modifications and having had no further contact on this point with the complainant since, could not

correct this omission before the request for information from the inspection service of November 8

2019” (point 4 of the defendant’s conclusions).

8. According to her complaint, the complainant points out that this part of her complaint was not followed up.

request for erasure and asks the DPA to intervene with the defendant so that “

the necessary is done" and that this is notified to him.

9. As for the Respondent, it seeks in submissions that the DPA, in view of the implementation

compliance of the disputed processing with the GDPR and the total lack of will on its part

to hinder the rights of the complainant, to take no sanction against her and

subsidiarily, if a sanction were to be pronounced, to grant the suspension of the

pronounced.

3. The inspection report of January 9, 2020

10. According to his inspection report of January 9, 2020, the Inspector General makes the findings

following:

Finding 1: it appears that the complainant's letter of 4

September 2018 addressed to the agency of (…) in which the complainant explicitly requested

the deletion of bank cards beginning with […] no longer in his possession, and

the deletion or rectification of the "open" status of his old expired credit card,

contrary to Articles 12, 16 and 17 of the GDPR.

Finding 2: following the letter from the Inspection Service, Y [read the defendant]

erased the data concerning the bank cards no longer in the possession of the

complainant and corrected the status of the complainant's expired credit card.

11. The Litigation Chamber therefore notes that the intervention of the Inspectorate made it possible to

respond to the complainant's concern and that it has, at this time, been satisfied in a manner

complete with its request for erasure. The Litigation Chamber also notes that during

communication of the inspection report to the complainant, the latter was duly

informed of the steps taken by the ODA and its effects.

 

 



 

PLACE

Decision on the merits 67/2021- 5/7

12. It is the responsibility of the defendant, in its capacity as data controller, to follow up on

the exercise of the rights of the persons concerned, in compliance with the conditions of article

12 GDPR. The Litigation Chamber recalls here that under the terms of Article 12.3. of the GDPR, it

it is the responsibility of the data controller to provide the data subject (here the complainant) with

information on the measures taken following a request made in accordance with the

Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR (including therefore a request for erasure as in this case

based on Article 17 of the GDPR or rectification based on Article 16 of the GDPR) in the

as soon as possible and in any event within one month of receipt of the

request. Section 12.3. of the GDPR continues by adding that if necessary, this period can be extended

two months given the complexity and the number of requests.

13. The Litigation Chamber notes that according to its conclusions, the defendant does not

not deny having remained, as a result of human error, in default of completely satisfying

at the complainant's request for deletion/rectification to which she apologizes.

14. In support of the findings made by the Inspector General in his report and in view of this

above, the Litigation Chamber effectively finds a breach of Article 12.3

and Articles 16 and 17 of the GDPR on the part of the defendant.

15. As part of its sovereign assessment of the corrective measure and/or sanction

appropriate to the facts of the case, the Litigation Division takes into consideration

all of the following considerations.

16. It follows from the facts and the exhibits filed in the context of this file that the breaches of

the defendant as retained by the Litigation Chamber (point 14 above) in support of the

findings of the inspection (point 10 above) are limited to the lack of follow-up given to the

the complainant's final request (of 4 September 2018) to amend the

bank card statuses that she no longer used.

17. The facts and exhibits produced by the parties show that apart from this aspect of the claim

erasure/rectification of the complainant, the defendant responded to the requests

prior information and rectification of the complainant as of July 2018 following in this the

procedures put in place within it and informing the complainant in an adequate manner and in

the period prescribed by article 12.3. of the DPR.

18. As to the number of persons concerned, the Litigation Chamber is not in possession

of any element that would lead him to believe that the procedures put in place by the

defendant would not be such as to enable the satisfaction of the rights of persons

concerned in accordance with the GDPR. The complainant's case so far appears to be an isolated case.



Decision on the merits 67/2021- 6/7

19. The Litigation Division does not have any information allowing it to conclude that it would be

of an intentional breach.

20. As for cooperation with the DPA, the Litigation Chamber notes, as the report

of inspection already mentioned makes the observation that following the intervention of the inspection service,

was immediately followed up on the complainant's request.

21. Finally, the Litigation Division notes the absence of damage invoked by the plaintiff.

22. In support of the foregoing, the Litigation Chamber limits itself to reminding the defendant of the

respect due to requests to exercise the rights of data subjects, in particular

Article 17 of the GDPR, and this in compliance with the conditions set out in Article 12 of the GDPR without

that this reminder should not be considered as one of the sanctions or corrective measures

listed in article 100 § 1erLCA.

4. Transparency

23. Given the importance of transparency with regard to the decision-making process

and the decisions of the Litigation Chamber, this decision will be published on the website of

DPA by deleting the direct identification data of the parties and of the

persons cited, whether natural or legal.

FOR THESE REASONS,

 

THE LITIGATION CHAMBER

After deliberation, decides:

- That there has been a violation of Articles 16 and 17 of the GDPR combined with Article 12.3. GDPR;

- That it is not necessary to pronounce one of the measures provided for in article 100.1 LCA.

Under Article 108.1 LCA, this decision may be appealed to the Court of

contracts (Brussels Court of Appeal) within 30 days of its notification, with

the Data Protection Authority as defendant.

 

 

 

 

 

(Sé). Hielke Hijmans

President of the Litigation Chamber

