Decision

Diary no

2020-06-15

DI-2018-14593

BRF Gårdsbjörken

BRF Gårdsbjörken - Supervision according to
data protection regulation
Table of Contents
BRF Gårdsbjörken - Supervision according to the data protection regulation ..............................1
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision ................................................ .....................................3
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ............................4
Camera 1 and 2 – stairwell ............................................. ................................4
Camera 3 – entrance to stairwell 11A............................................. .....................4
Camera 4 – electrical central in basement storage ........................................... ...................4
Statement in general................................................... ........................................4
Justification of decision................................................... ..............................................5
What rules apply to the association's camera surveillance?...................................5
Does the camera surveillance law apply?................................................ ....................6
Housing rights associations are not subject to the permit obligation .........................6
Does the data protection regulation apply? ................................................... ................6
Is the association's camera surveillance legal according to the data protection regulation? ...6
Basic principles for processing personal data (Article 5) .....7
Legal basis for the monitoring (Article 6) ........................................... ............7
Camera 1 and 2 – The association's stairwell............................................. ...............8
The privacy interest camera 1 and 2 ........................................... .................8
Surveillance interest camera 1 – stairwell 11A............................................. ..8
Surveillance interest camera 2 – stairwell 11B ........................................... .9

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

Assessment camera 1 – stairwell 11A............................................. ................9
Assessment camera 2 – stairwell 11B ........................................... ..............10
Camera 3 – Entrance to 11A .......................................... ......................................10
Privacy interest camera 3 – entrance to 11A ........................................... ...10
Surveillance interest camera 3 – entrance to 11A ........................................... .10
Does the association have an actual security interest at the time of
the surveillance?................................................ ................................................11
Summary assessment camera 3 – entrance to 11A .............................12
Camera 4 – Electrical central in basement storage............................................. ......................13
Privacy interest camera 4 – basement storage............................................. ..13
Surveillance interest camera 4 – basement storage ............................................. 13
Summary assessment camera 4 – basement storage...............................13
Audio recording for all cameras................................................... ...............14
Information to data subjects (Article 13) ........................................... ..............15
Choice of intervention .............................................. ..............................................16
Penalty fee and injunction................................................... ....................16
Determining the size of the sanction amount ............................................17
Order to cease surveillance ............................................... ...18
Appendix................................................... ................................................... ..............18
How to appeal............................................... ..............................................19

2 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Data Inspectorate notes that BRF Gårdsbjörken in Halmstad, org. no
769620-6528 (BRF Gårdsbjörken) by camera surveillance stairwell, entrance
and basement storage as well as recording sound at all these locations have dealt with
personal data in violation of
-

-

Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation1 by processing them
registered personal data, with both image and sound recording, on
a more invasive way for personal integrity, and covered
more personal data than is necessary, for the specified
the purpose,
Article 6 by processing personal data in image and sound for one
interest that does not outweigh the interests of the data subjects, and
Article 13 by providing insufficient information to them
registered.

The Swedish Data Protection Authority decides with the support of Article 58.2 and Article 83 i
data protection regulation that BRF Gårdsbjörken for the violations of article
5, article 6 and article 13 of the data protection regulation must pay a
administrative sanction fee of SEK 20,000.
Datainspektionen orders with the support of article 58.2 f i
data protection regulation BRF Gårdsbjörken to cease
the camera surveillance in picture regarding cameras 1-3, which monitor stairwells
and entrance, as well as ceasing audio recording for all cameras.
Datainspektionen orders with the support of article 58.2 d i
data protection regulation BRF Gårdsbjörken to limit camera surveillance
in picture regarding camera 4, which monitors the association's electrical center, so that it does not
guards the association's basement storage and does not record sound.

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
1

3 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

Account of the supervisory matter
After receiving complaints that BRF
Gårdsbjörken (the association) conducts camera surveillance of the stairwell in its
residential building initiated supervision with the aim of investigating the extent of the association's
surveillance and whether that surveillance is compatible with the rules in
data protection regulation.
BRF Gårdsbjörken has essentially stated the following.
The association has set up a total of four cameras. Its location and
catchment area is as follows.
Camera 1 and 2 – stairwell
The cameras are placed in each of the association's two stairwells on street numbers
11A and 11B. Copies of screenshots from the cameras show that their
catchment area includes the stairwell as well as some of the residents
apartment doors on the respective floors that the cameras monitor.
Camera 3 – entrance to stairwell 11A
A camera is placed at the entrance to the association's property. Of copy on
screenshot from the camera shows that its coverage area includes a
shorter walk to the house's courtyard and the area just outside the entrance door
to the rise for the residents at address 11A.
Camera 4 – electrical central in basement storage
A camera is placed next to an electrical switchboard in the association's storage room. Of copy
on the screen shot from the camera it appears that its coverage area includes the power station and part of the storage room.
Statement in general
The cameras were probably set up during April and July 2018.
The association has stated that no one can get to any of the association's
apartments without being filmed by the association's cameras. The cameras are recording
images and sounds every day of the week around the clock and stores recorded material in
ten days. In the event that there are events that are deemed important by
the association saves clips from such events for a longer period of time.

4 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

The association informs about the surveillance through signage at the gate to
the property and at both of the association's front doors to the respective stairwells.
The sign shows a silhouette of a surveillance camera and the text "TV/VIDEO".
The association has had problems with vandalism and some other crime
on several occasions from November 2017 through August 2018.
The association's entrance door at address 11A has been attacked on several occasions
damage due to glue and wood chips being introduced into the lock whereby the lock
destroyed, the association's code lock has also been destroyed. Furthermore, cables are connected
to the internet/electricity center in the basement cut off on two occasions and the heat
shut off in parts of the house. Someone has also broken the lock
the basement storage. On one occasion, slippery liquid was poured into one stairwell and at
on another occasion, paint was sprayed onto one of the security camera's camera lenses.
The association has further stated that vandalism has been targeted on 10-15 occasions
towards an apartment door in the stairwell at street number 11A. The apartment door
leads to the association's chairman's apartment. According to the association,
the damage consisted of sniffing, as well as something described as corrosive
liquid and other liquids were thrown on the apartment door. Furthermore, have
cigarette butts and snuff were thrown on the doormat next to the apartment door. By one
On one occasion, residents of the apartment were called obscene words by a neighbor.
The cost of all the damage is estimated to amount to approximately SEK 60,000.
The residents have not been asked about the camera surveillance. The reason is that
the association's board suspected residents in the association of having caused
the damage. The decision to install the cameras was made unanimously
the board. At the time of the decisions, the board consisted of nine people,
which made up more than half of the residents in the association.

Justification of decisions
What rules apply to the association's camera surveillance?
Camera surveillance with audio recording is a form of
personal data processing. How and to what extent it is permitted to
camera surveillance is regulated in the data protection regulation and
the Camera Surveillance Act (2018:1200) which supplements
data protection regulation.

5 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

Does the camera surveillance law apply?
Section 4 of the Camera Surveillance Act states that the law applies to camera surveillance
according to § 3 takes place with equipment located in Sweden. Of § 3 § 1 p
The Camera Surveillance Act states that camera surveillance includes that a television camera, another optical-electronic instrument or a comparable
equipment, without being operated on site is used in such a way as
means permanent or regularly repeated personal surveillance.
The camera surveillance that the association operates is not operated at the site
and involves permanent surveillance of the residents of the house and others
visitors. The Camera Surveillance Act therefore applies to the association's surveillance.
Housing associations are not subject to the permit requirement
The Camera Surveillance Act contains provisions on when permission is required for
to camera surveillance. Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act states that permission is required by
a place to which the public has access if the surveillance is carried out by one
authority or someone other than an authority when making a task
of public interest that follows from law or other constitution, collective agreement
or decisions announced in support of law or other constitution.
A condominium association does not need a permit for camera surveillance because
they do not perform a task of public interest.
In addition to the provision on permits, there are other rules in
the CCTV Act, e.g. confidentiality regarding the recorded
the material and certain requirements for information that may be relevant in
camera surveillance.
Does the data protection regulation apply?
If a surveillance camera captures an identifiable person or someone else
personal data in an image, the rules in the data protection regulation must be followed. This
appears from Article 2.1 of the data protection regulation.
Because the association films, and records audio from, identifiable people
with the cameras, the data protection regulation applies.
Is the association's camera surveillance legal according to the data protection regulation?
The Data Protection Regulation contains a large number of rules that must be followed
Processing of personal data. Within the framework of this supervisory matter

6 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

the Data Inspectorate does not deal with all the rules and issues that
can be actualized in the event of such personal data processing as the current one
the camera surveillance means. The test is limited to whether the association has
a legal basis for conducting the current camera surveillance, if
the association lives up to the basic principles for treatment of
personal data and whether the association has provided that information to them
registered as required by the data protection regulation.
Basic principles for processing personal data (Article 5)
Article 5.1 of the data protection regulation states, among other things, that personal data which
processed must be adequate, relevant and not too extensive in relation
to the purposes for which they are processed (data minimization). Furthermore, it appears
that the personal data must be collected for special, explicitly stated and
legitimate purposes and not later processed in a way that is incompatible
with these purposes (purpose limitation). In conclusion follows from article
5.2 that the personal data controller2 must be responsible for and be able to demonstrate that they
principles that follow from Article 5.1 are complied with (responsibility).
According to the association, the purpose of the camera surveillance is to get things right
with the damage that occurred in the association's property. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
believes that it is a legitimate purpose and that the association, based on what
revealed by the investigation, complies with the principle of purpose limitation.
The assessment of whether the association processes personal data in violation of
the principle of data minimization will take place in connection with
the assessment of whether the association had a legal basis for its camera surveillance.
Legal basis for the monitoring (Article 6)
In order for the camera surveillance carried out by the association to be legal, it is required
that there is a legal basis for the processing of personal data in accordance with Article 6
in the data protection regulation. The legal basis that is relevant in this matter
is balancing of interests according to Article 6.1 f of the data protection regulation. It means
that the association must demonstrate that the surveillance at each location is necessary for one
purposes relating to a legitimate interest for the association and that this interest

Personal data controller is the natural or legal person, public authority,
institution or other body that alone or together with others decides
the purposes and means for the processing of personal data (see article 4.1 p. 7 i
data protection regulation).
2

7 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

outweighs the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of those
people who are being monitored.
The cameras that the association has set up monitor various places there
the interest in privacy weighs differently. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore comes in
the assessment divides the places that are subject to surveillance separately
and test whether the association follows the principle of data minimization according to
article 5 and if the association has a legal basis according to article 6 below.
Furthermore, the Swedish Data Protection Authority will divide the assessment into first intended
camera surveillance in pictures and then make a collective assessment of all of them
cameras sound recording.
Camera 1 and 2 – The association's stairwell
The association guards the first floor of each stairwell. Of copies on
screenshots from the cameras show that the cameras' recording area
includes the stairwell as well as some of the residents' apartment doors on them
respective floor plan.
Privacy interest camera 1 and 2
Camera surveillance that takes place in residential buildings is considered as a starting point
very sensitive to privacy (see the court case HFD 2011 ref. 77). Current
the surveillance means that the residents are filmed every time they come home or
leaving their homes. Also other people who intend to visit
the homes must pass the surveillance cameras. Such monitoring enables
a survey of the residents' habits, visits and social circle. Already that
the fact that the monitoring concerns the residents and their home environment therefore implies
that very strong reasons are required for the surveillance to be permitted.
Surveillance interest camera 1 – stairwell 11A
The incidents reported by the association are almost exclusively targeted
against an individual resident and his apartment door. The incidents have i
mainly consisted of soiling the apartment door and that living in
the apartment on one occasion have also been subjected to obscenities. Association
has stated that there is a connection with the fact that a resident of the apartment was
chairman of the board in the association and the incidents directed at him.
The association has also reported on an incident where someone poured slippery liquid in
the stairwell.

8 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers, overall, that the surveillance interest has relative weight
heavy because it is a question of recurring incidents that have been specifically targeted
against one of the residents. That the incidents mainly consist of different forms of
soiling lowers the monitoring interest somewhat.
Assessment camera 1 – stairwell 11A
The incidents that the association has reported on have mainly been directed at one
certain apartment. The resident of the apartment has at the time of the incidents
was chairman of the association's board. The association has stated that there is
a connection between the incidents and that the resident of the apartment was
chairman of the association's board.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers that a condominium association under special
circumstances can be considered to have a tangible need to monitor one
stairwell and aim the camera at a particular resident's front door. A circumstance
which can speak for such surveillance being permitted is if
the apartment owner is exposed to crime due to his position as
elected representative in the association. In order for such surveillance to be permitted, it is required
however, that the surveillance interest weighs very heavily.
In the present case, the incidents mainly consisted of soiling of
the apartment door and litter on the associated doormat. At one point
the residents of the apartment have been accused of harassment. Against this one
background and taking into account the weighty privacy interest on
the location, the Data Inspection Authority assesses that the association's interest in
camera surveillance does not outweigh the data subjects' interest in not becoming
watched.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore states that the association has no legal basis
for the surveillance with image recording of the association's stairwell on number
11A.
Surveillance interest camera 2 – stairwell 11B
According to the association, the code lock to the entrance door leading to the stairwell has
destroyed on one or two occasions. Furthermore, the association has stated that it happened
vandalism in the basement, which can be reached from the stairwell. Of screenshot on
the camera's recording area appears to be neither the front door nor the basement
visible in the camera's recording area.

9 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers, overall, that the surveillance interest is not weighty
particularly heavy as there were no incidents within the camera
catchment area.
Assessment camera 2 – stairwell 11B
In light of the incidents that occurred in
stairwell 11B assessed that the surveillance interest at the site is not particularly important
heavy. Against this background and taking into account the weighty
the privacy interest at the site, the Data Inspectorate assesses that the association's
interest in camera surveillance does not outweigh the interest of the data subjects
not to be watched.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore considers that the association has no legal basis for
the surveillance with image recording of the association's stairwell at number 11B.
Camera 3 – Entrance to 11A
The association monitors the entrance to its property with cameras. Of copy on screenshot
from the camera it appears that its recording area covers a shorter corridor
to the courtyard of the house and the area just outside the entrance door to the staircase
for the residents at address 11A.
Privacy interest camera 3 - entrance to 11A
In this case, it is a question of a condominium association that monitors the cameras
the entrance to a residential building and the passage to the courtyard. Also
camera surveillance that takes place in connection with entrances to residential buildings is considered
starting point be very sensitive to privacy (see the court case HFD 2011 ref. 77).
The current monitoring means that the residents are filmed every time they
coming home or leaving their homes. Also other people who intend
to visit the residences must pass the surveillance cameras. Such
monitoring enables mapping of the residents' habits, visits and
social circle. Already the fact that the surveillance concerns the residents and
their home environment therefore means that it requires weighty reasons to
the surveillance must be permitted.
Surveillance interest camera 3 – entrance to 11A
The association has stated that someone has destroyed the lock on one of the entrance doors
by pouring glue into the lock or pushing wood chips into the lock on four occasions.
Furthermore, someone has destroyed adjacent code locks to the same entrance door at two
occasions. The damage has been going on for a period of two months.

1 0 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

The association has not stated that they have taken alternative measures to
the camera surveillance.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the crime that took place in the present case
cases have been of an almost systematic nature. Of the police reports that
reported by the association, it appears that the association has not had problems with
vandalism to front door since January 24, 2018. Camera on
the front door was installed in May 2018.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers the interest in the surveillance as a starting point
weighs heavily in the present case, especially since it is a
systematic and recurring damage.
In an examination of the legitimate interest in monitoring, it is required that
the security interest can actually be considered to exist at the time of
the surveillance. The security interest cannot thus be hypothetical
the time of the surveillance.3
Does the association have an actual security interest at the time of
the surveillance?
In the present case, the surveillance was prompted by vandalism that occurred within
a two-month period. According to the association, no one has been hurt
crime since August 2018, and no damage has been done to
the entrance door, which is now subject to surveillance, since January 2018.
An examination must be made of all the circumstances in order to assess whether
the interest in guarding may be deemed to actually exist at the time of
coverage.
According to the Swedish Data Protection Authority's opinion, the person in charge of personal data must at a
such examination also takes into account whether there is a risk of crime occurring
due to the nature of the place, and also take into account the previous occurrence
crime entails a risk of crime occurring again.
A place may, by its nature, entail an actual security interest to
monitor even if no crime took place at the scene. That may be the case then

The judgment of the European Court of Justice in case C-708/18, TK v. Asociatia de Properietari bloc M5A-ScaraA,
point 44.
3

1 1 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

there is a threat to the place in question, which is likely to be the case in e.g.
banks that handle cash in large quantities.
Furthermore, the fact that the crime has been committed at a place that normally
not exposed to crime speak for an actual surveillance interest. When guarding
of such locations, the data controller must be able to demonstrate that
the guarding interest actually exists even at the time of guarding.
In the present case, the monitoring concerns an entrance door to an apartment building. One
such a place is not by its very nature prone to crime, which is why it as a starting point
it is required that the person in charge of personal data show that there is an actual
interest in guarding the location at the time of guarding.
From trade associations' guidance for camera surveillance in multi-family buildings
it is recommended that a renewed assessment of the surveillance interest be made
half-yearly or if there is a special reason for reconsideration of decisions
to monitor cameras. 4 The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers that such a re-examination deadline is
reasonable and that the association should at least reconsider its starting point
need to conduct camera surveillance every six months from that
the surveillance began.
In the present case, there has been no crime against the front door since January
2018 and no crime has occurred at the association's property since August
2018. Furthermore, the Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that neither of the investigation
other circumstances emerged in the case that suggest that the association's
interest in camera surveillance is actual and exists at the time of
this decision. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore considers that the association at least from and
with 10 December 2019 can no longer be considered to have an actual interest in
monitor.
Summary assessment camera 3 – entrance to 11A
In summary, the Data Inspectorate considers that the association's interest in
recording footage outweighed the residents' interest in not staying
guarded at the time of when guarding began, but that the interest in
in which case can no longer be considered to be actual at the time of the association
last opinion on 10 December 2019. The association's opinion shows that

Camera surveillance - guidance for the processing of personal data, p. 10. The guidance is
produced by SABO, the Real Estate Owners and the Tenants Association.
4

1 2 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

no incidents have occurred at the location in question since August 2018.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore notes that the association no longer has legal status
basis for the surveillance with image recording of the association's entrance.
Camera 4 – Electrical central in basement storage
The association monitors the power plant located on the basement level next to the association's
basement storage. From a copy of the screen shot from the camera, it appears that its
catchment area includes electrical center and part of basement storage.
Privacy interest camera 4 – basement storage
The monitoring takes place of a common space in a multi-family property.
The Data Inspection Authority considers that camera surveillance of such spaces generally
seen means an intrusion into the residents' privacy. The breach of privacy is reinforced
further by the fact that images are recorded and that the surveillance is ongoing around the clock.
However, the Data Inspection Authority believes that there are also circumstances that speak for it
that the breach of privacy is reduced. Of copy on screen from camera's
recording area shows that the camera mainly films the electrical center,
although a certain part of the cellar storage is included. Furthermore consider
Datainspektionen that a basement storage room is such a place where the residents move around
limited scope and only stays for shorter periods of time.
This suggests that the interest in privacy weighs relatively lightly in connection with the power station.
Surveillance interest camera 4 – basement storage
The association has stated that it has repeatedly had problems with
damage to the power plant in the basement and that the power to the association's
the chairman's apartment has been closed off. Furthermore, also have internet cables that are in
connection to the electrical center exposed to vandalism. The association has established
several police reports due to the incidents that took place in the basement.
Summary assessment camera 4 – basement storage
The association has stated that the damage has been carried out by someone who likely
had a key to the basement storage because the door lacked break marks or others
damage that indicates that someone outside has entered the basement storage.
According to the Swedish Data Protection Authority's opinion, this suggests that the camera surveillance has
was necessary to achieve the purpose.

1 3 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the association's interest in recording
visual material outweighs the residents' interest in not being guarded against
background that the association has had extensive problems with
damage to the power plant itself.
A prerequisite for the association to continue to be able to conduct surveillance
is, however, that the association itself assesses that their interest in conducting
the monitoring actually exists. This means that the association running itself
must make an examination of all the circumstances of the interest of
carry out the monitoring is current and real when the monitoring is carried out.
However, the camera's recording area also includes parts of the basement storage.
Because the purpose of the camera surveillance was to prevent
vandalism at the power station, it is not compatible with the principle of
task minimization to also film parts of the association's basement storage.
The association must therefore limit the monitoring so that it does not monitor
the association's basement storage.
Sound recording at all cameras
In the present case, the association's surveillance also includes audio recording at
all cameras. Audio recording is particularly privacy sensitive and should be
subject to a careful examination in the individual case (prop. 2017/18:231 p.
67). The fact that it involves audio recording in a residential building increases the risk of
breach of privacy further.
The association has stated that in the incidents that have occurred, statements have been made
insults and foul words. However, according to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, the association has
not shown why audio recording would be necessary to achieve
the purpose of the monitoring.
According to the Swedish Data Protection Authority's opinion, in the present case it is a type of
crime which by its nature rarely necessitates audio recording and that
the residents' interest in not being eavesdropped at all locations
coverage outweighs the association's interest in recording sound.
The audio recording involves an extremely serious breach of privacy which is
too extensive in relation to the association's interest in the sound recording.
The Swedish Data Inspection Authority considers that the association's audio recording is lacking
legal basis and contravenes the principle of data minimization.

1 4 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

Information to data subjects (Article 13)
Article 13 of the data protection regulation states which information must
provided if personal data is collected from the data subject. Of
Article 13 states i.a. that information about identity and contact details for
the personal data controller, the purposes of the processing for which
the personal data is intended, as well as the legal basis and the period
during which the personal data will be stored must be provided.
Article 12 of the data protection regulation states that the person in charge of personal data
shall take appropriate measures to provide the data subject with all
information referred to in Article 13, and that such information shall
provided in a concise, clear, understandable and easily accessible form.
The person in charge of personal data can e.g. leave information in different layers, where a
sign can be the first layer and information on website or
information in a brochure can form the second layer of information. The
the most important information should generally be given in the first layer.5
It further follows from § 15, paragraph two of the Camera Surveillance Act that if sound can
is intercepted or picked up during surveillance, a special statement must be provided
about this.
The association has stated that they inform about the surveillance through signage
at the entrance gate to the property and at the entrance door to the respective stairwell.
The association has also sent in pictures of the signs. The pictures show that
the signs show a silhouette of a surveillance camera and the text "TV/VIDEO".
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the information provided by the association
certainly provides information that camera surveillance is conducted, but that
the information on the sign is not sufficient to meet the requirements according to article
13 of the data protection regulation. The sign lacks i.a. information about who
conducts the monitoring and where the data subject can turn to get
more information. The Swedish Data Protection Authority further notes that the association
does not inform about the processing that takes place regarding sound recording, which
is a particularly serious deficiency.

Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on transparency under Regulation (EU) 2016/679, para
38.
5

1 5 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the information provided by the association
does not meet the requirements of Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation.
Choice of intervention
In article 58 of the data protection regulation, all powers are specified as
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has According to Article 58.2, the Data Inspectorate has a number
corrective powers, i.a. a. warnings, reprimands or restrictions
of treatment.
According to Article 58.2 (i) of the data protection regulation, it appears that
the supervisory authority shall impose administrative penalty fees in accordance
with Article 83. According to Article 83.2, administrative penalty fees,
depending on the circumstances of the individual case, imposed in addition to or in
instead of the measures referred to in article 58.2 a–h and j. Furthermore, it appears from
article 83.2 n which factors must be taken into account when deciding on administrative
penalty fees at all shall be imposed and upon determination of
the amount of the fee
Instead of penalty fees, in certain cases according to reason 148 to
data protection regulation a reprimand is issued instead of penalty fees
if it is a question of a minor violation. Consideration must be given in the assessment
are taken into account such as the nature of the violation, degree of severity and
duration.
Penalty fee and injunction
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has assessed above that the association through its
camera surveillance with audio recording of stairwells, basement storage and entrances
violated articles 5 and 6 of the data protection regulation and through its
insufficient information to the registered violated article 13 i
data protection regulation.
In light of the fact that large parts of the personal data processing like this
supervision includes has meant illegal camera surveillance with both image and
sound, concerning living in their home environment, it is not a question of a smaller one
violation. In this context, the Data Inspection Authority wishes to emphasize that
the association's recording and storage of sound from large parts of the house is
particularly serious and that due to the sound recording it does not exist
reason to replace the penalty fee with a reprimand.

1 6 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

No other corrective action is applicable for that treatment either
that happened. The association must therefore be charged an administrative sanction fee.
Determining the size of the sanction amount
According to Article 83.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, each supervisory authority must
ensure that the imposition of administrative penalty charges in each individual
case is effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
According to Article 83.3, the administrative sanction fee may not exceed
the amount of the most serious violation if it is one or the same
data processing or connected data processing.
In article 83. 2 of the data protection regulation, all factors that must
taken into account when determining the size of the penalty fee. At the assessment
of the size of the sanction fee must, among other things, a. Article 83.2 a. is taken into account
(nature, severity and duration of the offence), b (intent or
negligence), g (categories of personal data), h (how the breach came about
Datainspektionen's knowledge) and k (other aggravating or mitigating
factor such as direct or indirect financial gain)
data protection regulation.
In Datainspektionen's assessment of the amount of the penalty fee, take into account
taken to mean that there have been violations concerning several articles in
data protection regulation and that violation of articles 5, 6 and 13 is that
assess as more serious and are subject to the higher penalty fee.
Furthermore, it has been taken into account that the violation has been going on for a long time, that
the violation came to the Datainspektionen's attention through a complaint
and that the camera surveillance of the association's members took place in their
home environment. In conclusion, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has taken particular account of the fact that
sound recording has taken place with the cameras. These circumstances are
aggravating.
As mitigating circumstances, it is taken into account that the association lacks
profit interest and is run on a non-profit basis by private individuals. It is also in certain
extent the same persons affected by the imposition of
the penalty fee incurred by the violation. In addition, the association has i
to some extent informed about the camera surveillance, although not completely in accordance with
data protection regulation. Furthermore, the association has also had a legitimate
interest in their coverage, even if they made a wrong balance between their

1 7 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

legitimate interest and the interests and fundamentals of the data subjects
rights and freedoms in their living environment. Finally, it is also assessed
meaning that it is an association whose turnover in 2018 amounted to 821,389
kroner and which only consists of 15 apartments.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority assesses based on an overall assessment that the association must
pay an administrative sanction fee of SEK 20,000.
Order to cease surveillance
Because the Swedish Data Protection Authority found that parts of the surveillance are illegal
shall the association be ordered to cease it. The Swedish Data Protection Authority orders
therefore the association according to article 58.2 f of the data protection regulation to cease
with the camera surveillance in picture regarding the cameras 1-3, which are monitoring
stairwell and entrance, as well as ceasing audio recording for all of them
cameras.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority further instructs the association to restrict
the camera surveillance in the picture regarding camera 4, which monitors the association's power station, so that it does not monitor the association's basement storage and does not record sound.

This decision has been made by the director general Lena Lindgren Schelin after
presentation by lawyer Nils Henckel. At the final processing has
also chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom, unit manager Charlotte Waller
Dahlberg and the lawyer Jeanette Bladh Gustafson participated.
Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2020-06-15 (This is an electronic signature)

Appendix
Appendix 1 – How to pay penalty fee

1 8 (19)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-14593

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

1 9 (19)

