                                                                   
                                                   

PRESS RELEASE

the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments of March 24, 2022

 
 

 

 

DSK comments on research data and Facebook fan pages

The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and

countries (DSK) passed a resolution at its 103rd conference to

underline that and how scientific research and privacy

are compatible with each other.

Professor Ulrich Kelber, Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and the

Freedom of information and in 2022 Chairman of the DSK, emphasizes that the

General Data Protection Regulation which research even prefers in many places: “We

need scientific research based on our European values

directs. The DSK therefore strongly supports the promotion and research of

Methods of processing research data in such a way that the personal rights of the

Citizens are protected as best as possible. The DSK supports the

Considerations to create a general research data law. With these and

we are available to advise on other measures.”

The DSK has also decided to nominate the highest

Federal and state authorities about the short report of the DSK TaskForce

to inform Facebook fan pages. She wants the authorities to get their

Deactivate fan pages if those responsible comply with data protection law

unable to demonstrate compliance. Professor Kelber said: “Facebook

Fan pages cannot currently be operated in compliance with data protection regulations. To this

The task force set up by the DSK also came as a result. authorities have here

a special responsibility and a role model function for the citizens

Citizens."

You can find the documents on the DSK and the short report on the TaskForce fan pages

shortly on the homepage of the data protection conference:

www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de

Contact:

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

Graurheindorfer Strasse 153

53117 Bonn

Email: pressestelle@bfdi.bund.de

 

 

