
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    08/17/2018
                                "Day of Data Protection 2018" at the Police University The state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI) and his employees clearly explained to the students of the 19th bachelor's degree at the Police University in Rhineland-Palatinate (HdP), to what extent personal data determine the everyday life of young police officers.©
                            Heiko Kueverling / shutterstock.com The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI) and his employees clearly explained to the students of the 19th bachelor's degree at the Police University in Rhineland-Palatinate (HdP) how personal data affects everyday life identify young police officers. On August 16, 2018, the LfDI was present for the fifth time with employees at the University of Applied Sciences in Frankfurt Hahn, in order to bring the wide range of topics related to data protection and freedom of information closer to the students in workshops together with the lecturers of the HdP. "Data Protection Day" is the title of the joint event format that has been held twice a year by the LfDI in cooperation with the HdP since 2016. With an introductory lecture on the subject of "Police in the information age", the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Prof. Dr. Kugelmann, on the Day of Data Protection. After that, the speakers of the LfDI presented workshops on data protection issues such as big data, data traces on the Internet or video surveillance by the police and private individuals in two phases. In addition to data protection, the students were also sensitized to the topic of freedom of information through a workshop contribution on the "right to curiosity and its limits". The thematic spectrum of the workshops of the colleagues from the HdP ranged from "behavioural etiquette" in social networks to police investigative strategies on the Internet and limits of queries in police information systems to clarification of dangers associated with the use of W-LAN hotspots .
The students summarized the results of the workshops in a final presentation and thus contributed to a successful day of the event. "The future police force of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate cannot be made aware of the issue of data protection early enough to maintain the high level of data protection in this area in Rhineland-Palatinate. The focus is not only on police data processing, which will one day day-to-day police work of the students, but we would also like to inform the police candidates as users about the risks of modern information technologies. We look forward to continuing the series of events in the future." summed up the LfDI.
                                return
                            



