 

 
 
 
Moritz Körner MEP 
European Parliament 
Rue Wiertz 60 
B-1047 Brussels 
Belgium 
 

 

Dear Mr. Körner,  

03 December 2020 

Ref: OUT2020-0131 

I  would  like  to  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  23  January  2020  regarding  the  implementation  of  the 
Agreement between the European Union  and the United States of America on the processing and 
transfer of Financial Messaging Data for the purposes of the Terrorist Finance Tracking Program, the 
so called TFTP agreement.  

Both of your questions go to the heart of the matter and reflect concerns which the European Data 
Protection Board also continues to share. More specifically, you raised questions, in the framework of 
the program, as to whether individuals can have their personal data corrected or deleted as well as to 
the amount of personal data collected and retained by U.S. authorities. I would like to respond to both 
of your questions in turn.  

The TFTP agreement provides, in its Article 16, for the right of the individual to seek correction or 
deletion  of  his/her  personal  data  processed  by  the  US  Treasury  Department  when  the  data  is 
inaccurate  or  the  processing  contravenes  the  agreement.  Such  request  must  therefore  be  «duly 
substantiated»  by  the  data  subject,  which  implies  that  the  requester  has  to  be  sure  that  his/her 
personal data is actually processed by  the US authorities, and in particular the data subject has to 
know  what  precise  data  is  processed  in  order  to  be  able  to  spot  any  inaccuracy  and  ask  for  its 
rectification.  

Consequently, it is only possible to guarantee the exercise of the right to correction or deletion if the 
right of access to such data is ensured as well. However, the TFTP agreement provides for a mechanism 
according to which any person has the right (as a minimum) to receive confirmation as to whether her 
or his data protection rights have been upheld in compliance with the agreement. Such a procedure 
might however result in a situation where the data subject is not informed of whether her or his data 
is stored  in  the TFTP  database or  whether  any breaches to  the agreement had to be remedied  in 
response to her or his request. This broad and unverified restriction to  the exercise of the right of 
access – expressly and specifically recognised as a fundamental right in Article 8(2) of the EU Charter 
of the Fundamental Rights – clearly prejudices the exercise of the other data subject’s rights1. 

                                                             
1 It remains to be clarified in the review of the EU-U.S. Umbrella Agreement whether that agreement 
substantially improves the effectiveness of the right of access for the data subject. 

 

1 

 

 

I understand that such a response may be dissatisfactory to the requesting citizen. While it is to be 
noted that this situation corresponds to the provisions of the agreement, ratified by both parties, and 
that such provisions are also foreseen in other international agreements. The EDPB considers these 
provisions to be insufficient. In its recent Schrems II ruling, the Court of Justice of the European Union 
stressed  again  –  in  the  context  of  personal  data  transfer  to  third  countries  –  the  importance  and 
necessity of ensuring data subjects’ rights’ enforceability against authorities in the courts, in order to 
provide for an effective judicial remedy.  

In this regard, I would like to recall however that data subjects can exercise their right to have their 
personal  data  corrected  or  deleted  by  sending  a  request  to  their  competent  national  supervisory 
authority,  which  will  transmit  the  request  to  the  Privacy  Officer  of  the  United  States  Treasury 
Department. The TFTP agreement also foresees a joint review process in which individual members of 
the EDPB take part as experts for the European Commission. The reviews may improve the process in 
general and provide for some accountability.   

With regard to the statement of DG HOME calling the amount of data collected in the framework of 
the agreement “big data”, reference can be made to the Joint Supervisory Body (JSB) of Europol and 
its  statement  in  2015.  The  JSB  stated  in  its  report  on  the  Europol's  implementation  of  the  TFTP 
agreement2: “In this respect, the JSB likes to restate its assessment that due to the nature of the TFTP, 
the situation in terms of mass data transfer remains unchanged. The JSB restates that, in view of  the 
nature of the TFTP and the scope of the agreement there is a massive, regular, data transfer from the 
EU to the US. There is a clear tension between the idea of limiting the amount of data to be transmitted 
by tailoring and narrowing the requests and the nature of the TFTP.”3 It seems that the situation was 
still similar in 2019, as indicated by the reference in the EDPS TFTP inspection report where it is stated 
findings that “the inspected requests [from the Treasury] are voluminous”. 4 

As regards the retention of the provided data, it follows from the Agreement that non-extracted data 
may be retained for five years. Such retention of non-extracted financial information continues to be 
of great concern to the EDPB, as it is also very problematic in view of the jurisprudence of the Court 
of Justice of the European Union5.   

 

 

                                                             
2 Report 15/28, Joint Supervisory Body of Europol, Council of the European Union document 12338/15, p. 5  
3 The EDPB notes the recommendation from the COM, in the 5th Joint review report on the implementation of 
the TFTP agreement, to minimise the amount of data requested by the designated provider. More specifically, 
it is recommended that the US Treasury should assess the message types and geographic regions that are the 
most and least responsive to TFTP searches. (Report from the Commission of 22 July 2019, COM(2019) 342). 
4 EDPS TFTP Inspection public report, of 28 May 2019, in 
https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/19-05-28_edps_inspection_report_art4_tftp_en.pdf  
5 See in particular CJEU Opinion 1/15 of 26 July 2017 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement).  

 

2 

 

In  view  of  these  concerns,  the  EDPB  would  like  to  reiterate  its  call  to  review  not  only  the  PNR 
agreements, which face similar problems, but also the TFTP agreement with the United States.  

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

3 

