Decision

Diary no

2019-08-27

DI-2019-5660

Intrum Sweden AB
Hesselmanstorg 14
125 14 Stockholm

Supervision according to the Debt Collection Act (1974:182) –
Intrum Sweden AB
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
Intrum Sverige AB has violated Section 5 of the Debt Collection Act by in part of its
debt collection claims do not inform about the possibility of objecting to the claim.
Intrum Sverige AB has violated Section 4 of the Debt Collection Act by not labeling
debt collection claims in a sufficiently clear manner.
The Data Inspectorate states that Intrum Sverige AB has now corrected the design
of the current collection requirements and that there is therefore no reason to take action
some additional measures.

Account of the supervisory matter
On 22 May 2019, the Data Inspection Authority carried out an inspection at Intrum
Sweden AB (hereafter Intrum). The inspection was carried out with reason
of the fact that the Swedish Data Protection Authority routinely visits large players who have debt collection permits. The inspection is part of the Swedish Data Protection Authority's supervisory plan 2019-2020.
The purpose of the inspection was to check how the company's debt collection operations
relates to the debt collection act and good debt collection law in general. Questions taken
up during the inspection referred to any changes in the business, control
of the company's routines, for example in debtor contacts, process selection,
debt collection claims, dispatch via digital mailbox, denial. At the time of inspection
supervisory case dnr 2356-2017 was also followed.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (5)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5660

Reason for the decision
Applicable regulations
Debt collection operations must be conducted in accordance with good debt collection practices (section 4 of the Debt Collection Act).
What constitutes a good debt collection oath can be seen from §§ 5–11 of the Debt Collection Act,
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's general advice "Application of the Debt Collection Act" and
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's practice in debt collection matters.
Drafting of debt collection claims
Applicable regulations, etc.
In debt collection claims, a time must be specified within which the debtor has to pay voluntarily
or report an objection to the claim (Section 5, third paragraph, Debt Collection Act). The
means that debt collection claims must contain information about the possibility of
object to the claim.
A debt collection claim should be labeled "Collection claim" so that it is clear to
the debtor that it is such a requirement (Datainspektionen's general advice
Application of the Debt Collection Act page 22).
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
Of the examples of debt collection claims that the Data Inspection Authority has taken note of in one
complaint case, there is partly a lack of content about the possibility of objecting to
the claim, partly the heading "Debt collection claim".
The company stated that debt collection claims (according to template KA04) already in April 2018 have
adjusted so that it is labeled Debt collection. At the inspection
however, attention was drawn to the fact that there was still a lack of information about
the possibility of objecting to the claim.
The company has subsequently submitted an adjusted debt collection claim (KA04)
titled "Debt collection claim". The adjusted collection requirement now includes
following text, "Do you have any objections to the requirement? Contact us within
eight days from the date of printing of this letter.”
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that part of Intrum's debt collection requirements
missing information about the possibility of objecting to the claim. The company has
thereby violated § 5 of the Debt Collection Act.

2 (5)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5660

The current demand letters have lacked the heading "Debt collection" and were initiated
with the following text "We see that you always pay your invoices on time and
therefore we are wondering if you have missed this payment?” For the debtor
must understand that it is a debt collection claim, it is important that the letter
classification and design in general is clear. Then the current collection requirements
during a period of time completely lacking classification, they cannot be considered to have given
the debtor sufficient guidance on what kind of document he or she has received.
This is especially in light of other shortcomings in the design of the letter.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can thus state that the Company acted in violation of good
debt collection oath, and thereby § 4 of the Debt Collection Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority further states that Intrum has now corrected the incorrect one
the design of the debt collection claim and that there is therefore no longer a reason
to take any further action.
Digitized mailings of debt collection claims
Applicable regulations, etc.
Legal action in connection with the claim may not be taken until the debtor
the requirements referred to in § 5 of the Debt Collection Act have been met and the specified time has expired (§ 6
the Debt Collection Act). With reference to section 5, it is intended that the claim must be made
in writing and have a certain content.
In preparatory work for the debt collection act, it is stated that the provision that the debtor must have
served claim does not mean anything other than that the creditor or his representative must have
has taken reasonable measures to ensure that the debtor receives the claim. Normally should
it is sufficient that the letter of demand is sent by post during the debtor's normal time
address (prop. 1974:42).
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
Intrum sends debt collection claims by post or via the digital mailbox Kivra. At
the inspection basically stated the following to Intrum about a new routine to send
debt collection claims digitally. The company has been sending debt collection claims since February this year
also via the digital mailbox Kivra. The deadline to pay voluntarily or
objecting to the claim is the same as the claims sent by physical mail.
When a debt collection claim is sent via Kivra, the debt collection claim is available in
recipient's mailbox in Kivra on the same day. In that the debtor has chosen to

3 (5)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5660

connect to the digital mailbox and thereby commit to monitoring
it as if it were their civil registration address, the company considers that they
by sending the debt collection claim via Kivra, the debtor serves
the debt collection claim. A debtor who no longer wants to receive the debt collection claim via Kivra can
unsubscribe either via Kivra or via Intrum. Intrum then announces its
print supplier and sends a debt collection claim by post with a new deadline for
payment or objection. About a quarter of the debt collection claims sent
out to debtors goes via Kivra.
By joining the digital mailbox Kivra, companies and
authorities, instead of sending letters in paper form by physical post, choose
to send letters as electronic items to individuals and companies
who have registered an account with Kivra.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that there is no requirement in Section 5 of the Debt Collection Act
that a debt collection claim in this case must be sent to the debtor in paper form.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers the digital mailbox Kivra to be such a place
which can be equated with the debtor's address if the debtor has voluntarily connected
themselves to Kivra and did not notify Intrum or Kivra that the digital mailbox
may not be used for sending Intrum's debt collection claims. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
notes that sending a debt collection claim via the digital mailbox Kivra
under the circumstances that exist in the case may be considered served
the debtor in accordance with Section 6 of the Debt Collection Act. There is thus nothing formal
obstacle for Intrum to introduce a routine which means that the debt collection claim is sent to
the debtor via a digital mailbox, as long as the requirement meets §§ 5 and 6
the debt collection act and good debt collection law in general.
Miscellaneous
What came out during the inspection in general does not cause any
views from the Swedish Data Protection Authority.

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision is being appealed and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. The Swedish Data Protection Authority sends the appeal

4 (5)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-5660

further to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination, if the inspection does not
itself changes the decision in the way you have requested. Even the Chancellor of Justice can
appeal the decision to safeguard public interests. Time for
however, appeals before the Chancellor of Justice are counted from the day the decision is made
was announced.
Provided that the appeal does not contain any sensitive to privacy
personal data or information that can be covered by confidentiality, you can e-mail
the appeal to datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se.

Gunilla Öberg, 2019-08-28 (This is an electronic signature)

5 (5)

