PRESS RELEASE

 
DESPITE GOOD RESPONSE TO THE LFDI GDPR SURVEY:

 

 
 

COMMUNITIES IN BADEN-WÜRTTEMBERG NEED MORE SUPPORT WITH THE

IMPLEMENTATION OF PRIVACY

 

For a good year now, the municipalities in Baden-Württemberg have had to meet the requirements

of the new European data protection law (GDPR). A survey by the

state representative

for data protection and

Freedom of Information (LfDI), the

implementation status in all 1,101 municipalities is as of today

closed. An online catalog with 50 questions was made available to municipal administrations

presented, which addressed the most important areas of the new data protection law. Of the

Questionnaire is attached as an attachment.

 

"Very positive result"

 

“Around 86% of the Baden-Württemberg municipalities took part in the survey.

This shows that the municipalities take data protection very seriously. And that the

Good communication with the LfDI

is working. That

is a very positive result!

We will now evaluate the answers in peace and analyze where problems exist and

needs have been reported. In particular, we want to find out where further support

is necessary and how this can be done", says the state data protection officer Dr.

Brink. Overall, Brink expressed his satisfaction with the way the survey went. "We obtain

This gives a realistic picture of how data protection is handled by the municipal administrations in the

ordered all over the country. This is a valuable insight that will guide our further work in the

will have a decisive influence on the municipal sector,” emphasizes Brink.

 

Small communities often overwhelmed

 

The feedback from the municipal administrations is already providing a first insight

to: Smaller communities are often overwhelmed with the new data protection law and

refer in particular to a lack of human resources. “Especially for small communities

it is very difficult to meet all the requirements. Here the LfDI has to support even more - but

the state government is also required at this point!” Brink said emphatically.
 

 

 

 

 

Koenigstrasse 10 a

+49 711 7 61 55 41 – 716

https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/

70173 Stuttgart

pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 


Ideas for this are already being developed: increased inter-municipal cooperation is an option

cooperation in the field of data protection organized at district level could also be considered

a great relief for smaller communities. The State Data Protection Officer

himself will examine whether and how he can support the communities even better, for example through

additional consulting and training services. So not an easy task – “But we

do our best!” is the feedback from a municipality with around 5,000 inhabitants.

 

Too many municipalities in the digital offside

 

Another finding is that a (small) part of the Baden-Württemberg municipalities

is not available digitally. The survey was put online, each municipality received one

individual link with which they had access to the questionnaire and was in different

contexts pointed out the survey several times by e-mail. About 7% of Baden-

Württemberg communities never called up their link.

 

The exact reason for this still needs to be analyzed. In any case, it also represents

with a view to the digitization strategy of the state government

negligible factor is that a not inconsiderable number of communities in Baden-

Württemberg digital simply "does not take place". Those Baden-Württemberg municipalities that

have not yet answered the catalog of questions will be answered next week by the LfDI

contacted and asked for an explanation. Here, too, the assistance is available in the

Foreground.

 

A final evaluation of the content of the survey is expected in September

presented. The results will be included in the brochure "Data protection for municipalities",

which will be available at the end of the year and to the Baden-Württemberg municipalities

will provide further guidance.
 
If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716.

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

 

 

