• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To:  Boiler Breakdown  Limited 

Of: 

41  Oldfields  Road,  Sutton,  Surrey, SMl  2NB 

1. 

The Information  Commissioner ("the Commissioner")  has decided  to 

issue  Boiler Breakdown  Limited  ("BBL")  with  a  monetary penalty under 

section  SSA  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 ("DPA"). The  penalty is  in 

relation  to a serious contravention  of regulations  21  and  24  of the 

Privacy and  Electronic Communications (EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003 

(" PECR"). 

2. 

This  notice explains the Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

BBL,  whose  registered  office  is  given  above  (Companies House 

Registration  Number:  08649752)  is  the organisation  stated  in  this 

notice to have used  a  public electronic communications service for the 

purpose of making  unsolicited  calls for the purposes of direct marketing 

contrary to regulation  21  of PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  21  applies to the  making of unsolicited  calls  for direct 

marketing purposes.  It means that if a company wants to make calls 

promoting  a product or service to an  individual  who  has a telephone 

1 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

number which  is  registered  with the Telephone  Preference  Service  Ltd 

("TPS"), then that individual  must have notified the company that they 

do  not object to receiving  such  calls from  it. 

5. 

Regulation  21  paragraph  (1)  of PECR  provides that: 

"(1) A person shall neither use,  nor instigate the use of,  a public 

electronic communications service for the purposes of making 

unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes where-

(a) 

the called line is  that of a subscriber who  has previously 

notified the caller that such calls should not for the time being 

be made on that line;  or 

(b) 

the number allocated to a subscriber in  respect of the called 

line is  one listed in  the register kept under regulation 26." 

6. 

Regulation  21  paragraphs (2),  (3),  (4)  and  (5)  provide that: 

"(2)  A subscriber shall not permit his line  to  be  used in  contravention 

of paragraph (1). 

(3)  A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 

where  the number allocated to  the called line has been listed on  the 

register for less  than 28 days preceding that on  which  the call is 

made. 

( 4)  Where  a subscriber who  has caused a number allocated to a line of 

his to  be listed in  the register kept under regulation 26 has notified 

a caller that he does  not,  for the time being,  object to such calls 

being made on  that line  by that caller,  such calls may be made by 

2 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

that caller on  that line,  notwithstanding that the number allocated 

to  that line is  listed in  the said register. 

(5)  Where  a subscriber has given a  caller notification pursuant to 

paragraph ( 4)  in  relation  to a  line of his-

(a)  the subscriber shall be free  to  withdraw that notification at 

any time,  and 

(b)  where such notification is  withdrawn,  the caller shall not 

make such calls on  that line." 

7. 

Regulation  24 of PECR  provides: 

"(1)  Where  a public electronic communications service is  used for the 

transmission  of a communication for direct marketing purposes 

the person  using,  or instigating the use of,  the service shall 

ensure that the following  information is provided with  that 

communication  -

(b) 

in  relation  to a  communication to  which  regulation 21 

[or 21A] (telephone calls) applies,  the particulars 

mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) and,  if the recipient of 

the call so  requests,  those mentioned in paragraph 

(2)(b). 

(2)  The  particulars referred to  in paragraph (1) are -

(a) 

the name of the person; 

(b) 

either the address of the person or a  telephone 

number on  which  he can  be reached free  of charge." 

3 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

8. 

Under regulation  26 of PECR,  the Commissioner is  required  to maintain 

a  register of numbers allocated  to subscribers who  have notified them 

that they do  not wish,  for the time being, to receive  unsolicited  calls  for 

direct marketing purposes on  those  lines.  The Telephone  Preference 

Service  Limited  ("TPS")  is  a  limited  company which  operates the 

register on  the  Commissioner's behalf.  Businesses who wish  to carry 

out direct marketing  by telephone can  subscribe to the TPS  for a fee 

and  receive  from  them  monthly a list of numbers on  that register. 

9. 

Section  122(5) of the  Data  Protection  Act 2018  ("DPA18")  defines 

direct marketing  as "the communication (by whatever means) of 

advertising or marketing material which  is  directed to particular 

individuals".  This definition  also  applies for the  purposes of PECR  (see 

regulation  2(2)  PECR  and  paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule  19 of 

the  DPA18). 

10. 

From  1 January 2021, consent in  PECR  has been  defined  by reference 

to the concept of consent in  the UK  GDPR  as  defined  in  section  3(10) 

of the  DPA  2018[1J:  see  regulation  2(1)  of PECR,  as  amended  by Part 3 

of Schedule  3,  paragraph  44 of The  Data  Protection,  Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc)  (EU  Exit)  Regulations 

2019/419.  Article 4(11)  of the UK  GDPR  sets  out the following 

definition:  "'consent' of the data  subject means "any freely given, 

specific,  informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 

wishes  by which  he or she,  by a statement or by a clear affirmative 

action,  signifies agreement to  the processing of personal data relating 

to him or her". 

[ll  The  UK  GDPR  is  therein  defined  as  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  of the  European  Parliament  and  of the 
Council of 27  April 2016 ("GDPR")  as  it forms part of the law of England  and  Wales, Scotland and  Northern 
Ireland by virtue of section 3 of the European  Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018. 

4 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

11. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a  living individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals". 

12.  A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services". 

13.  Section  SSA  of the  DPA  (as applied  to  PECR  cases  by Schedule  1 to 

PECR,  as  variously amended)  states: 

"(1)  The  Commissioner may serve a person  with a monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is  satisfied that -

(a)  there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 

Directive)  Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This  subsection applies if the contravention  was  deliberate. 

(3)  This  subsection applies if the person  -

(a) 

knew or ought to have known  that there  was a  risk that 

the contravention  would occur,  but 

(b) 

failed to  take reasonable steps to prevent the 

contravention. 

14.  The  Commissioner has  issued  statutory guidance under section  SSC  (1) 

of the  DPA  about the issuing  of monetary penalties that has  been 

published  on  the ICO's website.  The  Data  Protection  (Monetary 

Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty and  Notices)  Regulations  2010 prescribe 

that the  amount of any penalty determined  by the  Commissioner must 

5 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

not exceed  £500,000. 

15.  PECR  were enacted  to protect the individual's fundamental  right to 

privacy in  the electronic communications sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' 

overall  aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy 

rights. 

16.  The  provisions of the  DPA  remain  in  force  for the purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding the introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20  to the  DPA18. 

Background to the case 

17.  BBL offers one-off boiler repairs,  servicing,  boiler installations and 

annual  service  plans.  A similar but separate company,  Boiler Cover 

Breakdown  Limited  ("BCBL"),  shares the same directorship and  has the 

same  registered  office as  BBL. 

18.  BBL first came to the  attention  of the  Commissioner following  a 

separate  investigation  into BCBL  ("the BCBL  investigation"),  as  a result 

of complaints about unsolicited  direct marketing calls to TPS  registered 

individuals.  A  particular Calling  Line  Identifier ("CLI"): 

was  linked to two complaints  made to the TPS  and twelve complaints to 

the Commissioner's own  Online  Reporting Tool  ("OLRT")  between 

January and  July 2020. 

19.  The  OLRT complaints  relating to CLI 

between  included 

the following: 

6 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

- Tried to claim that I  had to set up boiler insurance  with  them for the 

yearly maintenance.  Recently had a  boiler fitted,  so  thought it was 

something to do  with  that.  They  wanted to set up a Direct Debit -

thought this was  strange as you usually pay on completion of work. 

Looked up  the number on  Google and it said that it was dangerous 

and a scam so  ended the call.  Caller got frustrated that he  had been 

kept on  the phone  "for 10 minutes now".  Immediately got a call 

back from another number (0208XXXXXXX).  Ignored it. ..  Worried 

that I  almost gave my banking details to scammers.  When 

challenged as to  whether they were already my service provider the 

girl admitted this  was a courtesy call.  I  then asked if she  was aware 

of and [sic] registered with  TPS,  she stated probably so I  explained 

to her the company would be reported for unsolicited call to a 

number registered with  TPS. 

- Person  identified himself as  • - •  tried to persuade my Mum 

(who  took the call)  to provide her bank details to give her a refund 

on  her boiler warranty direct debit.  She doesn't have a direct debit 

and it's a relatively new boiler so she  was  immediately suspicious, 

and the scammer hung up  when she refused to provide her bank 

details ...  My Mum  is 85 years old and in  lockdown,  she  was  anxious 

about this call and wanted me to check if it was  legitimate.  A  quick 

perusal online suggested this number is a serial offender regarding 

boiler warranty scams. 

-

I  am not sure  whether the name of the company given to me when 

I  called back is  correct,  we  have lived at this address for 5  years, 

this phone call always asks  for Mr XXXX of XXXX they want to 

engage in  conversation about whether I  have my free  newspaper 

delivered,  double glazing etc.  etc.  I  have asked them on  endless 

7 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

occasions to remove me from  their list and stop making these calls 

but they do  not stop. 

- A  web  search of this number suggests they are phishing hoping to 

reach  elderly women.  The  call purports to be about boiler serviceing 

[sic] and one report stated that when  he answered the phone the 

caller hung up.  This accords  with my experience.  I  answered with 

"Hello".  The  voice  asked "Mr XXXX?" and I  replied  "Who  is  calling?" 

at which point the caller hung up,  presumably inferring that a) I  was 

male and b) I  was  a  bit cautious ...  Yet another interruption 

andteh[sic] need to report it because if these are not reported the 

size of the problem goes unrecognised. 

- Boiler breakdown ...  Called to offer me a renewal on  my boiler cover. 

Seemed polite and helpful; although I've never to my knowledge 

had boiler cover with  this company.  Offered what seemed good 

terms,  so I've given  my Bank sort code and account number over 

the phone.  Having just looked up the ring-back phone number on 

Google,  I  see  that they may be scammers of the elderly/ 

vulnerable.  I'm still not sure  whether I've purchased a  legitimate 

service or been scammed out of my savings (I'll have to check my 

bank account tonight). 

20.  During the course  of the  BCBL  investigation the Commissioner sent a 

Third-Party Information  Notice  ("3PIN") to the Communications Service 

Provider ("CSP"), 

( ' ' - ' )  for the  CLI  in 

question: 

on  8  September 2020 requesting  the identity 

of the CLI's subscriber.  The  response,  which  was  received  on  23 

September 2020,  identified the subscriber as  BCBL,  and  provided  a  list 

of three other Clls allocated to  BCBL.  The  response  also  provided  Call 

8 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Detail  Records  ("CDR"s)  for the Clls allocated to  BCBL  between  1 

January 2020  and  7 September 2020. 

21.  The  CDRs  were  screened  against the TPS  register and  between  1 

January 2020 to 31  August 2020,  543,219 calls  were  made of which 

348,724 ( equating to 64%) were  made to individuals registered  with 

the TPS.  The  number making the calls was 

22.  A  request was  made to -on  19  November 2020  for evidence of 

the  allocation  of the number 

,  and  a response  was 

received  containing  an  invoice dated  4  September 2020,  showing this 

number was allocated to  BCBL trading  as  Boiler Cover UK. 

23.  During the course  of the  BCBL  investigation  a  letter was  sent on  25 

November 2020 requesting  clarification  of the  Clls used  by each 

organisation.  A  response  was  received  on  2  December 2020 which 

stated "Our companies trading names are as follows  :- Boiler Cover 

Breakdown  trades as Boiler Cover UK and has the following  CLis 

has the following  CLI's 

Boiler Breakdown Ltd 

ff 

24. 

In light of this evidence,  and  particularly BCBL's  assertion  that the 

was  allocated  to BBL,  the Commissioner set up a 

separate  investigation  into BBL.  Whilst the company is  identified  in  a 

Google  search, the Commissioner found  no  link to a website  in  the 

company information. 

25.  An  initial  investigation  letter was  sent to  BBL's  registered  office  on  8 

December 2020 and  a response  received  on  29  December 2020.  In 

error,  it appeared  that BBL  had  responded  to the ICO's initial  letter to 

BCBL,  rather than the  separate and  different initial  letter to  BBL.  In  its 

9 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

response  however,  BBL confirmed the Clls used  by BBL were 

and 

and  that between  01  January to 31 

August 2020  approximately 80,000  calls  were  made,  although  no 

information  could  be  provided  as  to the volume of connected  calls. 

26.  This  response  about call  volumes failed  to correspond  with  evidence 

obtained  in  the  BCBL  investigation, that between  1 January to 31 

August 2020 the CLI 

(which  BBL confirmed  is  a CLI  used 

by them)  had  made  543,219,  calls  of which  348,724 were  made to 

individuals registered  with  the TPS. 

27.  BBL confirmed  that it purchased  data from  third  parties and  that this 

data  was "Opt-in data  where  the customers have consented to  third 

party use".  BBL also  stated that it screened  data  against the TPS 

register prior to making  unsolicited  marketing  calls.  In answer to a 

question  requesting  a description  of any process  in  place to run  any 

marketing lists against the TPS  register and  an  in-house suppression 

list,  BBL  stated "When data is  imported it runs against our in-house 

suppression.  If individuals have been marked as not to be contacted 

the data  will not be imported and will be rejected ensuring that 

individuals are not contacted again". 

28.  Further enquiries were  sent to BBL  on  14 January 2021  and  a response 

received  on  22 January 2021,  confirming the identity of its data 

supplier as 

and  providing  copies  of a 'Marketing 

Questionnaire Script' and  an  undated  document titled 'Due  Diligence 

Boiler Breakdown'. 

29.  The  Marketing  Questionnaire Script read  as  follows: 

"Good Morning could I  speak to __ please? 

10 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Hi,  this is __ from 
you just a  few simple direct marketing questions ...  I  promise to be 
quick ... 

and the reason  for my call is  to ask 

Is that Okay? 
(There MUST be a positive expression of interest to continue  with  the 
marketing questionnaire) 

Data Confirmation 
To  ensure that I  address you correctly,  could I  ask for your first name 
please? Ok ...  thanks for that and then your last name please? 

Opt - in Statement 
Our privacy policy is available on our website, 

and its trusted partners may contact you  for up  to 12 

months via  telephone  to offer promotions,  market their products or 
services or to update your preferences. 

Is this Okay? 
(There MUST be a positive expression of interest to continue  with  the 
marketing questionnaire) 

Thank you. All calls are recorded for compliance purposes. 
Could I  ask, in  which age bracket do you fall? 
18-24 I  25-34 I  35-44 I  45-54 I  55-64 I  65-74 I  75-80 Not Answered 

What is your current residential status? Do you .... 
Own  your home/ Rent from  the Council)/ Rent Privately/ Rent 
through a Housing Association or Living  with  Family 

Sponsored questions asked here ...  Closing 
Thanks  very much for your time today.  If,  at any point you  wish  to opt 
out of future marketing simply go to 
this site you  will find our privacy policy. 

also on 

End Call 
Have a great day and goodbye 

Recorded Message: 

ICO number 
our Customer Care  number 

is a  trading style ofllll which  is a registered company with 

To  opt out of future marketing,  you may call 

Depending on  your answers,  your data may be shared with  the 
following industries as mentioned at the start of the call. 

11 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  Professional Services such as charities, solicitors, financial 

advisors or consultants. 

•  Financial Services such as Mortgage, Loans, Funeral Plans 

and Wills. 

the UK. 

•  Agencies and Brokers who buy and sell consumer data in 

•  Telecoms and Broadband Companies offering mobile 

phone, landline, broadband and technology. 

•  Household Service Companies such as utility, gas, electric 

• 

and solar. 
Insurance such as car, home, life, pet and warranty 
companies and electrical goods cover. 

•  Lifestyle, leisure and retail companies such as home 
improvements,  white goods, and high street brands. 

•  Automotive such as the car, bike and caravan industry. 
•  Gaming, Mail order, Media and Travel industry. 
•  Health /  Mobility such as cosmetics and mobility aids. 

Thanks  very much for your time today,  have a great day and good 
bye." 

30.  The  document titled 'Due  Diligence  Boiler Breakdown' states  "Ill has 

been taking the necessary steps and measures to ensure that we 

adhere to GDPR.  We  work very closely with 

a compliance 

solicitor (scripting/data chain of consent and providence of the data)  to 

help make these changes".  With  regard to TPS  screening 

-

state " ... TPS  checks are done every week for preparation of calling 

data  whilst it is  done  daily prior to  data  delivery depending on clients 

request ....  In-house - We  do  have a copy of the most updated TPS  file 

and we  do  the checks from  our Production  department." 

31.  On  16  February 2021,  further queries were  sent to  BBL  regarding the 

complaints emanating  from  CLI 

. A substantive response 

was  received  on  9  March  2021  in  which  it was  stated "The firm,  when 

purchasing data,  purchases that data pre screened against the TPS 

register,  and is also provided with a  "do  not contact" list on  future 

dates if the call was  to be registered on  the TPS  register after that call 

was  made" and "The  firm accepts that this is  not ideal as they are 

12 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

responsible for the compliance of the data.  Despite the firm  only being 

the contractual processor of the data (not controller),  that does not 

absolve themselves of liability under PECR.  The  firm  has committed to 

updating their compliance requirements in  line  with  this and will 

conduct further screening against the TPS  register after purchasing the 

data.  Please  note,  the firm still understands that the complaints made 

to  the  TPS  register do  not concern itself with  the firm".  It was  apparent 

from  the content of its response that BBL were  reliant upon  the 

legitimate interest basis  under GDPR  for consent to make direct 

marketing calls. 

32.  With  regard to one  of the TPS  complaints,  BBL  denied  having  any 

record  of calling  the number despite "keeping  meticulous records".  The 

complainant's number does however appear on  the  list of CDRs 

provided by - and  TPS  screening  confirms the number was 

registered  some years  prior to the call. 

33. 

In relation  to the  second  TPS  complaint BBL  did  not accept the call  took 

place  in  the fashion  alleged  by the complainant,  and  alleged  the 

complainant was  confused  about which  number had  called  them. The 

complainants number however did  appear on  the  list of CDRs  from 

and TPS  screening  confirmed  the individual  had  registered 

-
several  years prior to the call. 

34.  With  regards to five  of the complaints,  BBL  referred to leads supplied 

by a third  party who  has since  ceased  trading  but said  each  person  was 

contacted  on  a 'legitimate interest' basis.  BBL  later advised  it no  longer 

had  copies  of third  party contracts,  and  enquiries conducted  by the 

Commissioner with  Companies  House  confirmed  the data  supplier 

referred  to went into liquidation  in  December 2016,  giving  rise  to 

13 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

concerns  on  the part of the  Commissioner about the  age  of the data 

BBL was  relying  on. 

35.  BBL,  in  general  commentary about complaints,  suggested  the 

complaints were  not genuine, saying  they either did  not involve  Boiler 

Breakdown  at all,  were  part of an  online  smear campaign,  or having 

read  reviews  on  Google that the calls were  a scam  going  onto report 

the organisation to the ICO. 

36.  On  12  May  2021  a check was  made with the TPS  service  who 

confirmed  that they were  unable to find  a licence  held  under the  name 

of either Boiler Breakdown  Limited,  Boiler Cover Breakdown  Limited  or 

Boiler Cover UK. 

37.  As  part of the  BCBL  investigation  a 3PIN  had  been  sent on  7  December 

2020 to 

requesting  information  regarding  the 

identity of the  subscriber(s)  of 

and  two other numbers, 

together with  CDRs  for calls  between  1 March  to  31  August 2020.  A 

response  was  received  on  8 January 2021  including CDRs,  and  in  which 

confirmed the number 

was  allocated  to 

BBL.  The  other two numbers were  not provided  by 

In addition 

confirmed  the  numbers within the range 

were  also  allocated  to BBL. 

and  a single  number 

38.  A further 3PIN  was  sent to 

on  16 February 2021 

requesting  additional  CDRs  for January and  February 2020 and 

confirmation that the CDRs  included  all  calls  made  by numbers 

allocated  to  Boiler Breakdown  Limited  in  the number range 

to 

and  the single  number 

14 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

39.  A response  was  received  from 

on  12 April  2021 

including the requested  information. 

confirmed  that 

there were  no  additional  outbound  calls for any of the other numbers 

on  the requested  dates.  The  CDRs  from  this 3PIN  and  the previous 

3PIN  were  screened  against the TPS  register,  and  showed  that 

between  1 January to 31  August 2020 the CLI 

made 

13,632 calls  of which  9,075  (equating to 67%)  were to TPS  registered 

individuals. 

40. 

Further enquiries were  sent to  BBL on  6 April  2021  in  relation  to which 

BBL  provided  further information  on  13 April  2021.  BBL confirmed that 

it has 4719 active clients  and  provided  details of its website: 

https://www.boiler-breakdown.net/. In answer to questions about how 

calls to both  CLI 

(allocated to  BBL  but used  by BCBL) 

and  CLI 

(allocated to  BCBL  but used  by BBL)  are 

answered,  BBL stated  both  lines reference 'Boiler Breakdown' as  does 

the automated  response. 

41.  The  website  referred  to above contains a privacy policy which  states 

under 'Who is  the  Data  Controller?':  "We are the controller and is  [sic] 

responsible for your personal information." This  is  at odds with  a 

response  to the Commissioner dated  9  March  2021  in  which  BBL  said  it 

was  not a data  controller. The  policy goes on  to state  under 'How is 

your Personal  Information collected?' that data  may be  collected  by 

"Third Parties or publicly available sources ...  We  may receive personal 

data about you from  various  third parties." In addition, whilst the http 

web  address given  by BBL does show  a website,  an  internet search 

using  Google  does  not bring this website  up  on  the first four pages  of 

Google. 

15 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

42.  On  20  April  2021, the Commissioner received  a report from  the 

Financial  Conduct Authority ("FCA")  regarding  a complaint it had 

received  about a call  made on  27  March  2021 to an  individual  from  CLI 

. The  name of the company reported  was  BBL.  The 

complainant reported  that direct debits had  been  taken  over a period  of 

three years for boiler cover,  when  the complainant stated they had  no 

cover with this company (having  already had  a policy with  a different 

company),  had  never had  contact with the company nor received  any 

paperwork. The  Commissioners  investigations have shown  that CLI 

is  allocated  to  BBL  but used  by BCBL. 

43.  On  12  May  2021  an  end  of investigation  letter was  sent to  BBL 

explaining that the Commissioner had  gathered the necessary evidence 

and  would  determine if any regulatory action  would  be  taken. 

44. 

In respect of the  348,724 unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  made by 

BBL to TPS  numbers,  BBL  has to date  been  unable to evidence that the 

subscribers  receiving  them  had  not for the time being  objected to 

receiving  its direct marketing  calls. 

45.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied that the 348,724 calls were  all  made for 

the purposes  of direct marketing  as  defined  by section  122(5) DPA18. 

46.  The  Commissioner has  made the above findings of fact on  the 

balance  of probabilities. 

47.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether those facts  constitute a 

contravention  of regulations  21  and  24  of PECR  by BBL and,  if so, 

whether the conditions of section  SSA  DPA  are  satisfied. 

16 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The contravention 

48.  The  Commissioner finds that BBL contravened  regulations  21  and  24  of 

PECR. 

49.  The  Commissioner finds that the contravention  was  as  follows: 

50.  Between  1 January 2020 and  31  August 2020,  using  Clls allocated  to 

BCBL  (specifically 

),  BBL  used  a public 

telecommunications service  for the purposes of making  348,724 

unsolicited  calls for direct marketing  purposes to subscribers where the 

number allocated  to the subscriber in  respect of the called  line was  a 

number listed  on  the register of numbers  kept by the  Commissioner in 

accordance with  regulation  26,  contrary to regulation  2l(l)(b) of PECR. 

51.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied  for the  purposes  of regulation  21  that 

these  348,724 unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  were  made to 

subscribers who had  registered  with the TPS  at least 28  days prior to 

receiving the calls,  and  who for the  purposes  of regulation  21( 4)  had 

not notified  BBL that they did  not for the time being  object to receiving 

such  calls. 

52.  For such  notification to be  valid  under regulation  21(4), the individual 

must have taken  a clear and  positive  action  to override their TPS 

registration  and  indicate their willingness to receive  marketing  calls 

from  the company.  The  notification  should  reflect the individual's 

choice  about whether or not they are  willing  to receive  marketing  calls. 

Therefore, where signing  up to use  a product or service  is  conditional 

upon  receiving  marketing  calls,  companies will  need  to demonstrate 

17 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

how this constitutes a clear and  positive  notification  of the individual's 

willingness to receive  such  calls. 

53.  The  notification  must clearly  indicate the individual's willingness to 

receive  marketing  calls  specifically.  Companies  cannot rely on 

individuals opting  in  to marketing  communications generally,  unless  it 

is  clear that this will  include telephone calls. 

54.  Further, the notification  must demonstrate the individual's willingness 

to receive  marketing  calls  from  that company specifically.  Notifications 

will  not be  valid  for the  purposes  of regulation  21( 4)  if individuals are 

asked  to agree to receive  marketing from "similar organisations", 

"partners", "selected third  parties" or other similar generic descriptions. 

55.  The  Commissioner's Direct Marketing  Guidance  is  clear regarding 

organisational  responsibilities regarding  consent and  states: 

"Organisations should  keep  clear records of what an  individual  has 

consented  to,  and  when  and  how this consent was  obtained,  so  that 

they can  demonstrate compliance  in  the event of a complaint." 

56.  The  Guidance  goes  on  to state with  regard  to indirect (third party) 

consent:  "Any third  party controllers who will  be  relying  on  the consent 

must be  named  - precisely defined  categories  of third  parties will  not 

be  acceptable  under the GDPR  definition." The  Guidance  goes  on  to 

state:  "Consent is  not likely to be  valid  where an  individual  is  presented 

with  a long,  seemingly exhaustive list,  of general  categories  of 

organisations.  The  names of the categories  used  must be  tightly 

defined  and  understandable to individuals." 

57. 

In the  Marketing  Questionnaire Script from 

the list of 

sectors  is  provided  in  a recorded  message at the end  of the  call. 

Individuals have already been  asked  to consent to contact by third 

18 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

parties without having the information  about which  sectors  or 

organisations that could  be  from.  Also,  the recorded  message  list of 

sectors  is  too general  and  not tightly defined. 

58.  Furthermore, the  script also  states:  ' 

and  its trusted 

partners may contact you  for up to  12 months via  telephone to offer 

promotions,  market their products or services or to update your 

preferences."  The  Direct Marketing  Guidance,  under Time  Limits, 

states "As a general  rule  of thumb,  if an  organisation  is  making  contact 

by phone, text or email  for the first time,  we  recommend that it does 

not rely on  any indirect consent given  more than  six  months ago  -

even  if the consent did  clearly cover that organisation." 

59.  The  Commissioner considers it is  spurious reasoning  for BBL to 

consider processing  under legitimate interests;  in  this instance  PECR 

applies and  it is  clear that,  unless  BBL  had  specific consent,  it should 

not have made direct marketing  calls to TPS  registered  individuals. 

60.  BBL  provided  conflicting  accounts as  to whether it TPS  screened  data, 

and  there is  no  evidence to suggest that BBL,  or any other separate 

legal  entities which  held  BBL's  registered  office  address  as  its own  at 

the time, were  carrying  out TPS  checks  on  data.  Indeed, the TPS  have 

no record  of a licence  being  held  in  the name of either BBL,  BCBL  or 

Boiler Cover UK.  BBL appear to be  solely reliant on  assurances from  its 

data  supplier that the data  was TPS  screened.  Nor is there any 

explanation  provided for why Clls which  were  in  use  by BBL  at the 

material time were  used to make  348,724 unsolicited  calls to 

individuals who  had  been  registered  with the TPS  for not less than  28 

days. 

19 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

61.  BBL  has  been  unable to provide any evidence that the  subscribers who 

received  these  calls  had  notified  BBL that they did  not, for the time 

being,  object to such  calls. 

62.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that there is  evidence of 

348,724  unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  being  made by BBL to 

subscribers who had  been  registered  with the TPS  for not less than  28 

days,  and  who had  not previously notified  BBL that they did  not object 

to receiving  such  calls. 

63. 

In addition,  BBL  permitted  its lines (specifically CLI 

)  to 

be  used  by BCBL  contrary to regulation  21(2)  of PECR,  resulting  in 

9,075 connected  calls to TPS  registered  individuals between  1 January 

and  31  August 2020. 

64.  Further and  in  relation  to calls  made by BBL,  as the complaints 

indicate,  BBL failed,  as  required  by regulation  24  of PECR,  to provide 

the recipient of the calls from  CLI 

the particulars 

specified  at regulation  24(2)  of PECR  in  that there  is  evidence that the 

calls  and  automated  message from  that CLI  identified the caller as 

"Boiler Breakdown".  Contrary to information  provided to the 

Commissioner by BCBL with  regard  to which  Clls were  allocated  to 

which  companies,  BBL  is  actually the subscriber of this CLI,  which 

creates a confusing  picture of which  organisation  is  using  which  lines to 

call  individuals and  makes it difficult for individuals to be  clear about 

who  is  calling  them.  The  name used  is  sufficiently generic that it could 

apply to both  companies,  and  searches for a website  demonstrate that 

it is  difficult for individuals to locate the correct organisation  without 

knowing  the exact http address. 

20 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

65.  The  Commissioner has  gone on  to consider whether the conditions 

under section  SSA  DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

66.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied  that the contravention  identified 

above was  serious.  This  is  because there have  been  multiple breaches 

of regulations  21  and  24  by BBL arising  from  the organisation's 

activities between  1 January 2020 and  31  August 2020,  and  this led  to 

348,274 unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  being  made to subscribers 

who were  registered  with the TPS  and  who  had  not notified  BBL that 

they were willing  to receive  such  calls.  This equates to 64% of calls 

made by BBL.  Furthermore,  BBL  allowed  its  lines to be  used  by BCBL to 

make significant numbers of unsolicited  live calls to individuals who 

were  registered  with  the TPS  and  who  had  not provided  notification 

that they did  not object to receiving  such  calls. 

67.  A total  of 14 complaints were  received  in  relation  to calls  made from 

Clls allocated  to  BBL  over the  relevant period,  with  the complaints 

suggesting that inaccurate information was  provided  as  to the caller's 

identity. The  FCA  complaint shows that Clls allocated  to  BBL  continued 

to be  used to make calls  despite awareness  of the Commissioner's 

investigation,  and  in  that instance  direct debits had  been  taken  without 

the individual  having  received  any paperwork or indeed  having  any 

knowledge  of setting  up  payments.  BBL alleged  in  representations to 

the Commissioner that other similar companies and  competitors are 

"proactively trading  with deliberate attempt to confuse matters" and 

that these  account for some  of the  complaints.  However the 

Commissioner has  seen  no evidence to support this theory,  and  in  fact 

the evidence  supports that all  of the  complaints can  be  traced  back to 

Clls allocated  to  BBL.  BBL also  points to the low  call/complaint ratio  as 

21 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

evidence of a  lack of seriousness,  but the  Commissioner places  little or 

no weight on  this argument as  the lack of clarity as  to the identity of 

the calling  organisation  would  have  made  it difficult for individuals to 

complain. 

68.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (a)  from 

section  SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

69.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether the  contravention  identified 

above was  deliberate. 

70.  The  Commissioner considers  that in  this case  BBL  did  deliberately 

contravene  regulations  21  and  24  of PECR.  It is  noted that there is 

sufficient evidence to suggest that BBL  conducted  a significant number 

of unsolicited  direct marketing calls to TPS-registered  individuals, and 

made no  apparent effort to establish  that those  individuals did  not 

object to receiving  such  calls.  The  Commissioner is  particularly 

concerned that the set-up of the organisations,  alongside apparent use 

of a different company name  during  its calls  and  automated  message, 

suggests that BBL was  deliberately attempting to deceive  individuals as 

to its identity.  As  BBL and  BCBL  have a common  directorship, the 

directors would  have  known  which  of their organisations was  allocated 

which  Clls, and  which  organisation  was  using  which  numbers.  That 

there is  a clear division  of calling  numbers,  having  essentially been 

'swapped' in  their entirety by the two companies,  is  in  the 

Commissioner's view,  indicative of a business  model  deliberately 

conceived. 

22 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

71.  For the  above  reasons,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that this breach 

was  deliberate. 

72.  Further and  in  the alternative, the Commissioner has gone on  to 

consider whether the contravention  identified above was  negligent. 

This  consideration  comprises two elements: 

73.  Firstly,  he  has  considered  whether BBL  knew  or ought reasonably to 

have  known  that there was  a risk that this contravention  would  occur. 

This  is  not a high  bar,  and  he  is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

74.  The  Commissioner has  published  detailed  guidance for companies 

carrying  out marketing  explaining their legal  requirements under PECR. 

This  guidance  explains the  circumstances  under which  organisations 

are  able to carry out marketing  over the phone,  by text,  by email,  by 

post or by fax.  Specifically,  it states that live calls  must not be  made to 

any subscriber registered  with the TPS,  unless the subscriber has 

specifically notified the  company that they do  not object to receiving 

such  calls.  In  case  organisations remain  unclear on  their obligations, 

the ICO  operates a telephone  helpline.  ICO  communications about 

previous enforcement action  where  businesses  have  not complied  with 

PECR  are  also  readily available 

75.  Standard  practice of the TPS  is to contact the organisation  making the 

calls  on  each  occasion  a complaint is  made.  It is therefore reasonable 

to believe that BBL  would  have  been  aware of a notification from  the 

TPS  for the complaints being  made in  this case.  That there were two 

complaints  made to the TPS  alone  over the period  of the contravention 

should  have  made  BBL  aware of the  risk that such  contraventions may 

occur and  were  indeed  occurring. 

23 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

76. 

It is  therefore reasonable to suppose that BBL  should  have  been  aware 

of its responsibilities in  this area. 

77.  Secondly,  the Commissioner has  gone on  to consider whether BBL 

failed  to take  reasonable  steps to prevent the contravention.  Again,  he 

is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

78.  Reasonable  steps in  these  circumstances  may have included  conducting 

thorough TPS  checks  on  all  of the data  it was to use  for its direct 

marketing campaigns;  or at least obtaining  and  recording  evidence of 

notification  from  those TPS-registered  individuals whom  it intended to 

contact prior to engaging  in  its direct marketing calls.  In respect of 

those calls  BBL  could  have made it clear both  in  its live calls  and 

automated  message the correct identity of the calling  organisation. 

Furthermore, the directors of BBL  and  BCBL  could  have ensured that 

each  organisation  was  using  Clls allocated  to it for the purposes  of 

making direct marketing  calls.  In  respect of purchased  data,  BBL  could 

have conducted  more thorough  due diligence and  had  contracts  in 

place  with  its supplier to ensure the veracity of the data  received. 

79.  Given  the volume of calls  in  contravention  of Regulation  21(1)  PECR, 

and  the volume of connected  calls  as  a result of allowing  its lines to be 

used  by BCBL  in  contravention  of regulation  21(2)  PECR,  it is  clear that 

BBL failed  to take those  reasonable  steps.  BBL  did  not itself undertake 

checks  of the TPS  register,  and  appeared  reliant on  verbal  assurances 

from  third  party providers that the data  was  compliant.  Had  sufficient 

checks  been  undertaken, these would  have  revealed  this was  not the 

case.  Indeed,  in  BBL's  representations  it accepted that it was "unsure 

over who  had been contacted for what purpose under what lawful basis 

and whether we  had any license  to  contact those  who  had complained 

to  understand better what we  could do  to support them".  A CLI  was 

24 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

presented  which,  whilst being  a legitimate CLI,  was  not one  which 

would  allow the subscriber to identify the caller either by ringing  the 

number back and  speaking to an  operative,  listening to a recorded 

message or by a search  on  the internet.  Furthermore, that a complaint 

was  received  by the  FCA  relating  to an  unsolicited  call  on  27  March 

2021  from  CLI 

- a number allocated  to  BBL  but used  by 

BCBL  - would  suggest that the organisation  did  not alter its business 

model,  and  continued  to permit BCBL to make calls  using  its lines, 

despite awareness of the Commissioner's ongoing  investigation  into 

concerns  about the organisation's compliance with  PECR. 

80.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (b)  from  section 

SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 

81.  The  Commissioner  has  taken  into  account  the  following  aggravating 

features of this case: 

•  The  Commissioner is  concerned  by evidence that BBL targeted 

vulnerable  individuals.  BBL concede that 80% of call  recipients are 

elderly and  many are 'vulnerable'.  It is  apparent that due to the 

volume  of calls they were  persistent in  nature.  Furthermore, 

complaints  indicate that misleading  information was  provided to 

individuals promoting  a belief that they already had  a direct debit set 

up,  and  so  potentially causing  financial  loss to those  individuals. 

•  BBL acted  deliberately in  contravention  of PECR  with  a view to 

generating  an  increase  in  profit and  turnover. 

•  BBL failed  to follow  ICO Guidance or seek support where  necessary. 

25 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  BBL's  business model  was  purposefully opaque  such  that individuals 

were  unable to identify which  organisation  was  calling  them,  making  it 

difficult to object to calls  or complain. 

•  Whilst BBL  did  engage with  the Commissioner's  investigation, 

information  provided  has  been  deliberately misleading  in  an  apparent 

attempt to confuse  or evade  regulatory action. 

82.  The  Commissioner notes that BBL  has  indicated  a willingness to be 

compliant,  but he  does not consider that this constitutes mitigation for 

the  contravention  which  took place.  Indeed  evidence  suggests that 

lines allocated to  BBL continued to make calls  leading to complaints  up 

to  March  2021.  Further, whilst BBL  has  informed the  Commissioner in 

representations that it has temporarily ceased  making  marketing  calls 

pending  the outcome of this matter, and  has  produced  dralt policies 

and  processes designed to improve the business  practices, the 

Commissioner notes that BBL  has  been  reactive  in  its approach  to 

compliance,  and  only seems to make changes  in  its practices in  order 

to comply with the law when  failings  are  discovered,  and  changes  are 

required,  by a regulator.  Had  such  measures been  implemented  at the 

outset, then this contravention  may have  been  averted. 

83.  For the  reasons  explained  above,  the  Commissioner is  satisfied that the 

conditions from  section  55A(l)  DPA  have been  met in  this case.  He  is 

also  satisfied  that the procedural  rights under section  55B  have  been 

complied  with. 

84.  The  latter has  included  issuing  a  Notice of Intent on  6  May  2022,  in 

which  the Commissioner set out his  preliminary thinking  and  invited 

BBL to make representations in  respect of this matter.  In  reaching  his 

26 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

final  view, the Commissioner has taken  into account the 

representations  and  additional  documents and  financial  information 

provided  by BBL. 

85.  The  Commissioner is  accordingly entitled to issue  a monetary penalty 

in  this case. 

86.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether,  in  the circumstances,  he 

should  exercise  his  discretion  so  as  to issue  a monetary penalty. 

87.  The  Commissioner has  considered  the likely impact of a monetary 

penalty on  BBL.  He  has  decided  on  the  information that is  available to 

him that a penalty remains the  appropriate course  of action  in  the 

circumstances of the case. 

88.  The  Commissioner's underlying objective in  imposing  a monetary 

penalty notice is to promote compliance with  PECR.  The  making  of 

unsolicited  direct marketing calls  is  a matter of significant public 

concern.  A monetary penalty in  this case  should  act as  a general 

encouragement towards compliance with the  law,  or at least as  a 

deterrent against non-compliance,  on  the part of all  persons running 

businesses currently engaging  in  these  practices.  This  is  an  opportunity 

to reinforce the need  for businesses to ensure that they are  only 

telephoning  consumers who are  not registered  with  the TPS  and/or 

specifically indicate that they do  not object to receiving these calls. 

The amount of the penalty 

89.  Taking  into account all  of the  above,  the Commissioner has  decided 

that a penalty in  the sum  of £140,000.00 (One hundred and forty 

thousand pounds)  is  reasonable  and  proportionate given the 

27 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

particular facts of the  case  and  the underlying  objective in  imposing the 

penalty. 

Conclusion 

90.  The  monetary penalty must be  paid  to the  Commissioner's office  by 
BACS  transfer or cheque  by 23 September 2022 at the  latest.  The 

monetary penalty is  not kept by the Commissioner but will  be  paid  into 

the Consolidated  Fund  which  is  the Government's general  bank account 

at the  Bank of England. 

91. 

If the Commissioner receives full  payment of the monetary penalty by 
22 September 2022 the Commissioner will  reduce the  monetary 
penalty by 20% to £112,000.00 (One hundred and twelve 
thousand pounds).  However,  you  should  be  aware that the early 

payment discount is  not available  if you  decide to exercise your right of 

appeal. 

92.  There  is  a right of appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 

against: 

(a) the imposition  of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified  in  the monetary penalty 

notice. 

93.  Any notice of appeal  should  be  received  by the Tribunal  within  28  days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 

94. 

Information  about appeals  is  set out in  Annex  1. 

28 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

95.  The  Commissioner will  not take action  to enforce a monetary penalty 

unless: 

•  the  period  specified  within the  notice within  which  a monetary 

penalty must be  paid  has expired  and  all  or any of the monetary 

penalty has not been  paid; 

•  all  relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice  and  any 

variation  of it have  either been  decided  or withdrawn;  and 

•  the  period  for appealing  against the monetary penalty and  any 

variation  of it has expired. 

96. 

In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland, the monetary penalty is 

recoverable  by Order of the  County Court or the  High  Court.  In 

Scotland, the monetary penalty can  be  enforced  in  the same  manner as 

an  extract registered  decree arbitral  bearing  a warrant for execution 

issued  by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom  in  Scotland. 

Dated  the  24th day of August 2022 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

29 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  55B(S)  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 gives any person 

upon  whom  a monetary penalty notice  has  been  served  a right of 

appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the 'Tribunal') 

against the notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the  notice against which  the appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance with the law;  or 

b) 

to the extent that the notice  involved  an  exercise  of 

discretion  by the Commissioner, that she  ought to have exercised 

his discretion  differently, 

the Tribunal  will  allow the appeal  or substitute such  other decision  as 

could  have  been  made  by the  Commissioner.  In any other case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring  an  appeal  by serving  a notice of appeal  on  the 

Tribunal  at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

30 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Telephone:  0203 936  8963 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The  notice of appeal  should  be  sent so  it is  received  by the 

Tribunal  within  28  days of the date of the notice. 

b) 

If your notice  of appeal  is  late the Tribunal  will  not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has extended the time for complying  with this 

rule. 

4. 

The  notice of appeal  should  state:-

a) 

your name and  address/name and  address  of your 

representative  (if any); 

b) 

an  address where documents may be  sent or delivered to 

you; 

c) 

the name and  address  of the Information Commissioner; 

d) 

details of the decision  to which  the proceedings relate; 

e) 

the result that you  are  seeking; 

f) 

the grounds on  which  you  rely; 

g) 

you  must provide with the notice  of appeal  a copy of the 

monetary penalty notice or variation  notice; 

h) 

if you  have exceeded  the time  limit mentioned  above the 

notice of appeal  must include a request for an  extension  of time 

31 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

and  the  reason  why the notice of appeal  was  not provided  in 

time. 

5. 

Before  deciding  whether or not to appeal  you  may wish  to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser.  At the hearing  of an  appeal  a  party 

may conduct his case  himself or may be  represented  by any person 

whom  he  may appoint for that purpose. 

6. 

The  statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier 

Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  are  contained  in  section  55B(S)  of,  and 

Schedule 6  to, the  Data  Protection  Act  1998, and Tribunal  Procedure 

(First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber)  Rules  2009 

(Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

32 

