1/6

 File No.: EXP202207955

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Given the lack of communication to this Agency of the protection delegate
of data (DPD) by the CITY COUNCIL OF ARRECIFE with NIF P3500400A
(hereinafter, the City Council), the General Subdirectorate for Promotion and
Authorizations of this Agency sent you two notifications recalling the obligation
to designate a DPO and communicate it to the control authority, in accordance with article
37 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (RGPD), and granting a period of ten days to
to carry out the mandatory communication, without receiving a response to
neither of the two notifications. In the same letter, it was warned that the
Non-compliance could give rise to the exercise of the powers of investigation and
sanctions of this Agency.

SECOND: On June 24, 2022, for the purposes provided in article 47 of
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the General Subdirectorate
of Promotion and Authorizations transferred the documentation in that
Subdirectorate to the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection. Specifically, it
Attach the following documentation:

- First notification sent by SIR on February 17, 2022 with registration number
departure (...) and confirmation of receipt on February 18.
- Second notification sent by SIR on April 26, 2022 with registration number
departure (...) and confirmation of receipt on April 26.

THIRD: In view of the facts stated, on July 18, 2022,
query, with negative result, the list of data protection delegates
communicated to the AEPD using the NIF of the
City hall.

FOURTH: On July 20, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against the City Council, for the
alleged violation of Article 37 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) and after the period granted
for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
some by the City Council.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP -provision of which the City Council was informed in
the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no allegations are made
within the period provided for the content of the initiation agreement, when it
contains a precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility, it may
be considered a motion for a resolution. In the present case, the agreement to initiate the
disciplinary file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the City Council and the sanction that could
impose. Therefore, taking into consideration that the City Council has not formulated
allegations to the agreement to start the file and in attention to what is established in the
Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initiation agreement is considered in the
present case proposed resolution.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The notifications indicated in the first and second records were
collected by the City Council, without receiving any response.

SECOND: The list of delegates of
protection of data communicated to the AEPD using as search criteria the
NIF of the City Hall.

THIRD: Notification of the agreement to start this procedure
disciplinary action was carried out in accordance with the provisions of article 43 of the LPACAP.

FOURTH: The City Council has not presented allegations to the agreement to start this
sanctioning procedure within the period indicated for it.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

breached obligation

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

The Public Administrations act as data controllers of
of a personal nature and, sometimes, perform the functions of data processors
for what corresponds to them, following the principle of proactive responsibility,
meet the obligations detailed in the GDPR, including the appointment of
a data protection officer, make their contact details public and
communicate it to the AEPD.

Paragraphs 1 and 7 of article 37 of the GDPR refer to these obligations and
establish, respectively:

"1. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will designate a delegate of

data protection provided that:

a) the treatment is carried out by a public authority or body, except those
courts acting in the exercise of their judicial function;
(…)
7. The person in charge or the person in charge of treatment will publish the data of

contact
of the data protection delegate and will communicate them to the control authority.”

Regarding the appointment of the data protection officer, sections 3 and 5 of the
Article 37 of the GDPR state that:

"3. When the controller or processor is an authority or
public body, a single data protection officer may be appointed to
several of these authorities or bodies, taking into account their structure
organization and size.

(…)
5. The data protection officer may be part of the staff of the
controller or processor or perform their duties within the framework
of a service contract.

For its part, the LOPDGDD dedicates article 34 to the “Appointment of a delegate of
data protection”, precept that provides:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment must designate a
data protection officer in the cases provided for in article 37.1 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (...)

3. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment will communicate within the period of
ten days to the Spanish Data Protection Agency or, where appropriate, to the
regional data protection authorities, designations, appointments and
dismissals of the data protection delegates both in the cases in which
find themselves bound to their designation as in the case in which it is voluntary”.

Classification and classification of the offense

II

Article 83.5 b) of the GDPR considers that the infringement of "the obligations of the
responsible and of the person in charge according to articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43”, it is

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

punishable, in accordance with section 4 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned
Regulation, "with administrative fines of a maximum of 10,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the one with the highest value”.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

"Infringements are the acts and conducts referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the alleged infringement
prescribes after two years and is classified as serious, in accordance with article 73 of the
LOPDGDD that stipulates the following:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(...)
v) Failure to comply with the obligation to designate a data protection delegate
data when their appointment is required in accordance with article 37 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and article 34 of this organic law.”

IV.

sanction imputed

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR, in its section 7, establishes the following:

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applied to the treatments

for which they are responsible or in charge:

(…)
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the

autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

(…)
2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
commit any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the competent data protection authority will issue
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

likewise, the measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct it.
the effects of the offense committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body to which it depends hierarchically, if applicable, and to those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if applicable.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the authority of
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and the
The sanctions to be applied will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary regime.
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is accredited
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or regional Gazette that
corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions to which they refer
the previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.”

It should be noted that the GDPR, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83,
contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of resorting to the penalty of warning
to correct the processing of personal data that do not suit their
forecasts, when the managers or managers listed in section 1
commit any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law.

V

adoption of measures

This Agency agrees to impose on the controller the adoption of appropriate measures
to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this act, in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to which each authority of
control may “order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a specified period…”.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

FIRST: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF ARRECIFE, with NIF P3500400A, for
an infringement of Article 37 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: REQUEST the ARRECIFE CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P3500400A,
so that within a period of one month he certifies before this body the appointment of
DPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 37 of the GDPR.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF ARRECIFE.

ROOM:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

