 

Case number: NAIH- 3833- 10/2021.
 
 

Subject: decision partially granting the request

 
 

 

H A T A R O Z A T

 

 
Before the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: Authority) [...]
personal data of the applicant (residential address: […]; hereinafter: Applicant) to […] (seat: […];
tax number: […]; hereinafter: Submitted regarding the illegal treatment by the Respondent, a
It arrived at the authority on March 30, 2021, and started following its completed application on May 7, 2021
In an official data protection procedure, the Authority makes the following decisions:
 

1. The Authority grants the Applicant's request in part and determines that the Applicant
violated Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter: GDPR).
 

2. The Authority refuses to establish the illegal handling of the Applicant's telephone number

your request.

 

 

 

 

3. The Authority rejects the request to order the deletion of the Applicant's telephone number.

4. The Authority grants the Applicant's request in part and instructs the Applicant to

To fulfill the applicant's access request in full.

5. The Authority ex officio determines that the Respondent has violated Article 12 (2) of the GDPR

paragraph.

* * *

 

There is no place for administrative appeal against this decision, but the 30th from the date of notification
can be challenged in an administrative lawsuit within days with a claim addressed to the Metropolitan Court. THE
a letter of claim must be submitted electronically to the Authority, which forwards it along with the case documents to the
to the court. The request to hold a hearing must be indicated in the statement of claim. The complete personal
for those who do not receive a tax exemption, the fee for the administrative lawsuit is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is substantive
is subject to the right of levy memo. Legal representation is mandatory in proceedings before the Metropolitan Court.
 
 

I N D O C O L A S

 
I. Procedure of the procedure
 
(1)

Through the Applicant's representative - [...] (seat: [...]; hereinafter: Representative) - by post
submitted request for official data protection procedure was received on March 30, 2021
To authority.
 
Considering that the request was not met by Infotv. It is contained in § 60, paragraph (5).
all requirements, or did not include the authorization given to the Representative
original copy, therefore the Authority NAIH-3833-2/2021. No. dated April 13, 2021
in his order, he invited the Applicant to fill in the gaps.

(2)

 

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………
ugyfelszolgalat@naih.hu
1055 Budapest
Falk Miksa utca 9-11
www.naih.hu
 
 

Phone: +36 1 391-1400
Fax: +36 1 391-1410

(3)

 
(4)

(5)

(6)

 
(7)

 
(8)

 
(9)
 
(10)

The Applicant's statement to the request for gap filling - with which he only partially complied with a
to those included in the gap filling notice - received by the Authority on April 27, 2021. THE
according to the supplemented application, the Applicant requested that the Authority establish that the Applicant
handles your phone number without a legal basis, and in order to remedy this violation, instruct the
to delete a phone number. The Applicant also requested that the Authority establish the Applicant
violation of his right of access, and instruct the Applicant in the access order dated January 25, 2021
to fulfill your request. In addition, the Applicant requested that, if the conditions were met, a
The Authority shall impose a data protection fine and, if the Authority imposes a reprimand
makes it public.

The Representative submitted the original copy of the power of attorney to the Authority by post,
which was adopted by the Authority on May 5, 2021. In addition to this, also for the vacancy notice
with reference to the letter received by the Applicant's representative to the Authority on May 7, 2021
attached a piece of evidence supporting the infringement.
 
The Authority dated May 17, 2021, NAIH-3833-7/2021. notified in order no
Request for the initiation of the official data protection procedure, as well as clarification of the facts
invited him to make a statement.
 
The Applicant's statement using the e-Paper service was received on June 4, 2021
To authority.

The Authority NAIH-3833-9/2021. in his ruling, as part of clarifying the facts, he called the
Representative to submit a power of attorney that corresponds to the general administration
CL of 2016 on public order. Act (hereinafter: Act) in paragraph (1) of § 14 and
CXXX of 2016 on the Code of Civil Procedure.
is occupied
requirements. The letter containing the power of attorney issued in the appropriate form a
It was adopted by the authority on August 16, 2021.

in point b) of § 594 of the Act

On the basis of the Applicant's statement and the documents attached by him, the Authority is based on the Ákr.
Pursuant to Section 25 (1) point b), dated September 2, 2021, NAIH-3833-11/2021. no
in his order, he addressed a request to the [communication service provider]. The [communication service provider] a
He complied with the Authority's invitation, and his statement was received by the Authority on September 16, 2021.

On September 3, 2021, the Representative inquired by e-mail about the status of the case.

The Authority dated 29 September 2021, NAIH-3833-14/2021. and NAIH-3833-15/2021. no
notified the Applicant and the Respondent in its orders that it had completed the evidentiary procedure,
informed them that they could exercise their right to inspect documents and to provide additional evidence
I can make motions. On October 4, 2021, the Respondent requested access to documents
To the Authority, to which the Authority dated 12 October 2021, NAIH-3833-17/2021. no
by means of copies of documents - the right to inspect documents to protect personal data
limited with regard to - he complied. According to the Applicant's statement dated October 25, 2021
he did not want to make any further evidentiary motions in the case.

 
II. Fact
 
(11)

In his application for the data protection authority procedure, the Applicant submitted that the [Company]
assigned his claims against him to the [Claims Manager] on [...] 2017, who
it was further assigned by the
Upon request. About the assignment on [...] 2018 between the Applicant and the [Receivables Manager].
jointly, in a notice of assignment issued on [...] 2018, they notified the Applicant - who

 

2

according to his statement to the Respondent, he did not receive it - and then January 2019
In its letter dated the 31st, the Respondent invited the Applicant to comply.
 
On December 11, 2020, the Applicant informed the
Applicant that he has an overdue claim against him.

On December 29, 2020, according to the call details attached by the Applicant, at 11:15 a.m. the
in connection with the letter, he called the Applicant while prohibiting the display of numbers, and the Applicant himself
with the case number indicated in the letter, and the four natural personal identification data
identified - based on the transcript of the audio recording of the conversation attached by the Respondent -,
after that, the Respondent's colleague disconnected the call for an unknown reason.

After that, an incoming call to the +[…] phone number also indicated in the Requested party's notice letter
received on December 29, 2020 at 11:19 from phone number +[x], one for the Respondent
from an unknown person. Used when making and recording Requested calls
system displayed and recorded the phone number of the caller during the call, which the system
verified with a screenshot taken. The customer service could not answer the call, so it
cannot be linked to a specific claim or debtor
telephone number
nor was it recorded in the claims management system. The phone number for that
recorded by the Applicant
telephone communication without success
can call the initiating party back on the same phone number.

systems that a

and thus a

it could be,

The Respondent with the debtors of the registered claims
cooperation
subject to its requirements, as well as obligations related to the handling of complaints
in order to fulfill it, one of the Respondent's administrators on December 30, 2020 at 12:54
initiated a callback to the phone number +[x]. The call was successful, the call was made by the called party
received it. The Applicant's administrator introduced himself and said that he was on behalf of the Applicant
is calling and that "we had a missed call from this number." The lady who answered the phone
to which she replied that "my husband must have called", but during the conversation it was her husband
did not provide identification data, nor did the Respondent's administrator request it, so the
even after this conversation, the phone number could not be linked to a specific debtor.

On December 30, 2020, at 1:39 p.m., another call from an unknown number went through to
To the applicant. Prior to his identification, the Applicant stated that "yesterday
I called this number, I will tell you when, at 11:19 a.m., I would like a recording of this
nicely.", and then repeated that "the dear colleague threw the phone at me, this
I request a conversation immediately and ask how they know about a [...] number." THE
In response to the Applicant's last question, the Respondent's administrator informed that in the system a
The applicant does not have a phone number. The Applicant referred at 12:54 that day
to the call made, however, the Respondent's employee refers to the Applicant
he did not see such an outgoing call in the register at the specified time, so he promised the
To the applicant that he would look it up, he then made a comment that “phone number by the way
we used it from a public directory". According to the Respondent's statement, this is of a general nature -
otherwise incorrect - it was information, since according to the Respondent's statement, May 25, 2018
has not collected telephone numbers for debtors from public databases or directories.

During the conversation, the Applicant later stated that "how do they know such a thing
a number that does not exist and that is in private hands, that is not in the directory? From where
do they pick up a number like that?” After that, the Respondent's employee informed a
Applicant that "now I look, the female colleague called people from whom she did not receive
our call, he called those numbers. (…) It should have been a missed call from that number
call.", however, the Applicant contested this last statement on the grounds that he was the number display
he called despite his ban, so he did not accept the information given by the clerk.

3

(12)

 
(13)

(14)

(15)

(16)

(17)

 

The Respondent informed the Authority that he was neither present at the time of the above call nor
subsequently, the telephone number +[x] was not recorded in the Claimant's claim management system a
Applicant
was made
it was also supported by a screen save.

as your phone number,

claims management

about registration

this

the

Subsequently, in a letter dated January 25, 2021 - received by the Respondent on February 2, 2021
through - the Representative contacted the Application, in which he requested information that
the Respondent "obtained and used" the Applicant's data "from where and by what right."
In the letter, it was explained that the Applicant did not give it to the Respondent's data management
expressed and informed consent and requested that "if it is available to you
Our client's declaration of consent, or that the assignor knew it and to you
has authorized the handling of our Customer's data, I ask that it be made available to us." On this
in addition, he requested information, with reference to Article 15 of the GDPR, that the Respondent a
To which recipients did the Applicant forward his personal data and requested that the Applicant
provide information on the purpose and legal basis of data management. The Representative has one for his letter
He attached a power of attorney issued in Germany, but not certified.

In this regard, the Respondent explained that, in his opinion, Article 12 (6) of the GDPR
on the basis of paragraph
a prerequisite for the exercise of rights is that the person concerned
your identity must be properly verified. The attached power of attorney is a
considered invalid due to the lack of super-authorization, or, according to the Representative's point of view, legal
is not authorized to provide representation. In this connection, he also referred to the fact that neither the Authority
accepted by the Representative, signed by the Applicant in Germany
power of attorney due to deficiencies in its form and content. The Applicant is not sufficiently under
did not respond to the access request due to asserted right of representation, however March 2021
In his letter dated 17, he informed the Applicant that his personal data with the [Company]
outstanding debt incurred against, acquired by the Respondent through assignment
is managed in order to validate it. He attached the assignment declarations to his letter
a copy, and a table summarizing the details of the debt.

[...] point,

In relation to the Applicant's claim that his phone number was managed by the
Company that he disabled the display of the calling number, the Respondent referred to the [communication
service provider's] GTC
and public electronic communications
to data protection and confidentiality obligations related to the service, data management and
privacy protection is special
conditions, the security of networks and services and
integrity, handling of traffic and billing data, as well as identification display and
4/2012 on the rules for call forwarding. (I. 24.) NMHH decree for § 9, which
the display of the phone number is at the disposal of the subscriber with the phone number. On it
during a call, during which the calling party allowed the display of the calling number on his own device, a
you have allowed your service provider to communicate your phone number to the called party. Referred
and also to the fact that, in his opinion, the Applicant only asserted it, but not in any way
confirmed that all the ones marked by him
towards
in the case of an initiated call, you prohibited the display of your phone number.

from the phone number of the Applicant

Regarding the management of the phone number +[x], the Authority considers it necessary to record that a
During the call made on December 30, 2020 at 1:39 p.m., the applicant made several
statements like "I don't have it on my phone", "You searched for a number that isn't there
mine", "They searched, but on a non-existent phone number", "how do they know a number that
does not exist", "You called a seventy number that is not me." On this
statements, as well as the opposite related to the prohibition of displaying the phone number
positions
[communication
to service provider]. The [telecommunications service provider] informed the Authority that the +[x] phone number
its subscriber is the Applicant, the relevant subscriber agreement between them was created on [...] 2017.

for clarification by contacting the Authority

turned to

4

(18)

(19)

(20)

(21)

(22)

 

(23)

In connection with the display of the calling number, he stated that because of the prohibition of the display of the calling number
subscribers also have the option per call, which is why it is only possible based on log files
determining whether the calling party has disabled the display of the calling number for the specific call.
The monitoring systems of the Requested Party store the detailed signaling logs for a maximum of 60 days,
while historical call data logs are stored for a maximum of 45 days. As a result, the [communication
service provider] could not provide information about the phone number +[x] December 2020
During the call made at 11:19 on the 29th, the display of the calling number was disabled.

 

III. Applicable legislation
 
Article 12 (2) of the GDPR: The data controller facilitates the data subject 15-22. of his rights under Article a
practice.
 
GDPR Article 12 (4): If the data controller does not take measures following the data subject's request,
without delay, but at the latest within one month from the receipt of the request
data subject about the reasons for the failure to take action, as well as whether the data subject can file a complaint
with a supervisory authority and may exercise his right of judicial remedy.

GDPR Article 12 (6): Without prejudice to Article 11, if the data controller has reasonable doubts
there are 15–21. in relation to the identity of the natural person submitting the application pursuant to Article, further,
may request the provision of information necessary to confirm the identity of the person concerned.
 
GDPR Article 15 (1): The data subject has the right to receive feedback from the data controller
regarding whether your personal data is being processed and if such data processing is taking place
is in progress, you are entitled to the personal data and the following information
get access to:
a) the purposes of data management;
b) categories of personal data concerned;
c) recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data was disclosed
or will be communicated, including in particular third-country recipients and international
organizations;
d) where appropriate, the planned period of storage of personal data, or if this is not possible,
criteria for determining this period;
e) the data subject's right to request personal data relating to him from the data controller
rectification, deletion or restriction of processing and may object to such personal data
against treatment;
f) the right to submit a complaint addressed to a supervisory authority;
g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information about their source;
h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in paragraphs (1) and (4) of Article 22, including profiling
as well as, at least in these cases, the applied logic and its comprehensibility
information about the significance of such data management and what can be expected for the data subject
has consequences.
 
Article 58(2)(b), (c), (g) and (i) of the GDPR: Acting within the corrective powers of the supervisory authority
b) condemns the data manager or the data processor if his data management activities violated e
the provisions of the decree;
c) instructs the data manager or the data processor to fulfill the data subject's requirements according to this regulation
your request to exercise your rights;
g) orders the correction of personal data in accordance with the provisions of Articles 16, 17 and 18,
or deletion, or limitation of data management, as well as Article 17 (2) and Article 19
properly orders the notification of the recipients with whom or with whom it is personal
data were reported

 

5

i) imposes an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the given case, e
in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in paragraph
Infotv. Section 2 (2): Personal data according to (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
regulation (hereinafter: general data protection regulation) is the general
data protection decree III-V. and VI/A. In Chapter 3, as well as § 3, 4, 6, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17,
21., 23-24. point, paragraph (5) of § 4, paragraphs (3)-(5), (7) and (8) of § 5, § 13 (2)
paragraph, § 23, § 25, § 25/G. in paragraphs (3), (4) and (6) of § 25/H. § (2)
in paragraph 25/M. in paragraph (2) of § 25/N. § 51/A. in paragraph (1) of § 52-54. §-
in, paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 55, paragraphs 56-60 § 60/A. (1)-(3) and (6) of § § 61 (1)
paragraphs a) and c), § 61 paragraphs (2) and (3), paragraph (4) b) and (6)-(10)
in paragraph 62-71. §, § 72, § 75 (1)-(5), § 75/A. in § and 1.
shall be applied with the additions specified in the annex.

Infotv. Validation of the right to the protection of personal data based on § 60, paragraphs (1) and (2).
in order to do so, the Authority will initiate a data protection official procedure at the request of the data subject. The
for official data protection procedure CL. of 2016 on general public administrative order. law (a
hereinafter: Ákr.) rules shall be applied with the additions specified in the Infotv. and the
with deviations according to the general data protection regulation. For the initiation of the official data protection procedure
a request can be submitted in the case specified in Article 77 (1) of the GDPR.
 
Data protection and
confidentiality
obligation, the special conditions of data management and confidentiality, the networks and
for the security and integrity of services, the management of traffic and billing data, as well as
4/2012 on the rules for identification display and call forwarding. (I. 24.) NMHH decree
Section 9 (1): Free of charge to service providers providing number-based interpersonal communication services
must provide based on the subscriber's written request
a) for the calling user to block the display of his ID on the called device for each call;
b) for the calling subscriber to block the display of his ID at each subscriber access point
on the called device;
c) to the calling user that - despite the blocking specified in point b) - it is possible for each call
display your ID on the called device;
d) to the called subscriber, so that the caller ID is not displayed on his device;
e) for the called subscriber to refuse to accept calls for which the caller is
disabled the display of your ID.
 
ARC. Decision
 
IV.1. The legality of handling the Applicant's phone number
 
(24)

In his application for the official data protection procedure, the Applicant requested that the Authority establish
and that the Respondent handles his telephone number illegally and without legal basis, and the Authority
order the deletion of the illegally managed telephone number.
 
Regarding the management of the Applicant's phone number, there was a contradiction during the procedure
between the parties, from what source the Respondent obtained it, since the Applicant so
stated that during each call he called the Respondent from a hidden number, while the Respondent
according to his statement, during the call made on December 29, 2020 at 11:19:19, the number display
was active, so the number could be recorded by its call routing system. THE
The applicant made this statement about the system used to make the phone calls
he also supported it with a screenshot, according to which there was a non-receipt at the above time
calling the Respondent from +[x] phone number.

6

(25)

 

 

(26)

 
(27)

 
(28)

 
(29)

 
(30)

 
(31)

That on December 29, 2020, calls were made twice from the Applicant's phone number to
To the Respondent, it is also supported by the call details attached by the Applicant, on the other hand, the
Attached by the applicant, between the applicant and the employee of the applicant December 30, 2020
according to the transcript of the conversation, the Applicant himself said that "I called this yesterday
the number, I'll tell you when, at 11:19 a.m."

According to the Authority's point of view, the Respondent correctly referred to the fact that the Applicant a
however, he only made assertions about blocking a phone number during every call
he did not support it in any way. It is merely the assumption of a violation of law, its assertion
is not sufficient in itself to prove a violation of law, the burden of proof is on the Applicant
to fulfill the obligation. The request to the Authority in the official procedure initiated on the request
must be judged based on the content and reasons contained in it, the probability of the infringement a
shall be borne by the applicant. As a result, and based on the evidence attached by the Applicant, a
The Authority establishes the facts as that the Applicant on December 29, 2020 at 11:19
called the Applicant from a non-hidden number, whose system was thus able to record the number +[x].

 However, the number +[x] was recorded only so that the Applicant
can call him back, given that he was unable to answer the call. It should be emphasized that a
The Respondent could not connect the telephone number to the Applicant, as it is the previous one
during a conversation - December 29, 2020 11:15 a.m. - while prohibiting the display of your phone number
the Applicant called. That is, the number was not recorded as the Applicant's personal data
line, and the Respondent was unable to connect it to the Applicant during the call back the next day
in view of the fact that no information suitable for identifying the Applicant during the conversation
was said. The above phone number is still the Applicant's access request dated January 25, 2021
it could not be connected to him based on either, since it did not include the phone number or the time of the calls
was included, the connection between it and the phone number is the data protection authority of the Authority
was created by his notification of the procedure.

Consequently, neither on December 30, 2020, nor the access request
at the time of submission, you did not treat the phone number +[x] as the Applicant's phone number,
and even after the Authority's inquiry, the Applicant's contact information was not recorded
as data.

The Requested phone number - not tied to the Requester, not the Requester
as your phone number - based on your legitimate interest according to Article 6 (1) point f) of the GDPR
recorded it. Your legitimate interest is to be able to operate your customer service efficiently, and furthermore,
to comply with the 2013 Law on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises
CCXXXVII. of his obligation according to § 288 of the Act to make a complaint by telephone
and information should be provided to all customers by making sure that all incoming no
calls the number back in case of an received call. The purpose of data management is also exclusively for that
was limited to the calling party who unsuccessfully initiated the telephone communication on the same
will call you back at this number, and this data management purpose was not necessary for the data subject
data management in a manner suitable for identification.

Based on the above, the Authority concludes that the telephone number in the previous paragraph
its handling for a specific purpose and legal basis was lawful, and for other purposes and legal basis,
assigned to the Applicant, the Respondent did not manage the Applicant's telephone number data.

 
IV.2. Ensuring the Applicant's right of access

 

(32) In the data protection authority procedure, the Applicant requested that the Authority condemn the
Respondent, as it has not complied with its access request dated January 25, 2021, and
requested that the Authority oblige the Applicant to fulfill it.

7

 


(33) In the access request, the applicant shall state the source of his personal data, his personal data
asked about the purpose and legal basis of its processing, as well as the identity of potential recipients
information from the Application, and requested that "if it is available to you
Our client's declaration of consent, or that the assignor knew it and to you
has authorized the handling of our Customer's data, I ask that it be made available to us." The
the latter document presumably means the assignment notice, although the application
wording is not clear enough.

 
(34) The Respondent did not answer the request for the Representative - since, according to his opinion, a
Based on the documents at his disposal, the Applicant was not entitled to be a representative
to provide his representation - but sent an information letter to the Applicant's home address. On this
informed the Applicant in a letter about the source of his personal data (the Company), the personal
on the purpose of processing his data (enforcement of an overdue claim against him), this
referred to it, but did not explicitly describe that the legal basis for data management is the claim
legitimate interest in its enforcement. He attached the Applicant's debts to the letter
details, and a copy of the notices on the assignment. The latter are the Authority
according to his point of view, they can be matched with the access request in the previous paragraph
to documents described in the quoted manner.

 
(35) According to the Authority's point of view, the Respondent does not fully, but partially, comply with the above
fulfilled the Requester's access request, from which certain circumstances of data management already exist
were recognizable, while others were missing: the information provided by the Applicant
it only related to data management for the purpose of claims management, the answer did not cover, for example, the
for data processing for complaint handling purposes, and the purpose and legal basis of data processing is not personal
determined by data in accordance with the requirement of transparency, or failed to do so
to inform the Applicant about the identity of potential recipients.

 
(36) In connection with the non-fulfilment of the access request, the Respondent referred to his position
at the time of submitting the access request, the Representative did not have a valid power of attorney
with authority, so the request could not be accepted as coming from the Applicant, and thus a
Based on Article 12 (6) GDPR, you could not fulfill the request. The Authority rejects this argument
does not consider it acceptable, as Article 12 (6) of the GDPR provides that
if the data controller has reasonable doubts about the data subject submitting the application
in relation to the identity of a natural person, including the identity of the person concerned
can request the provision of information necessary for its confirmation, but this has not been done, a
The Respondent did not indicate to either the Applicant or the Representative that the Representative contested
right of representation. In this regard, the Authority notes that data subject rights are not
only a legal representative, but Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code 6:11. §-the
can be exercised through any representative according to However, the Authority considers it appropriate to
The position of the applicant is that the Representative himself refers to it in the attached power of attorney
Act LXXVIII of 2017 on lawyer activity. to § 34 of the Act, and to the fact that it is legal
provides representation, so the power of attorney must comply with the one asserted by yourself
requirements.

 
(37) According to the Authority's point of view, the doubt did not arise in connection with the identity of the Applicant
For the respondent, but in connection with the Representative's right of representation - this is also supported by
that the Respondent partially responded to the inquiry and mailed it to the Applicant's home address
- therefore, based on Article 12 (2) of the GDPR, he should have informed the
Applicant and Representative. Paragraphs (2), (4) and (6) of Article 12 of the GDPR also provide a
legislator's intention that if, according to the data controller's point of view, the data subject's request
there is some obstacle to its fulfillment - insufficiently verified identity, not sufficiently accurate
or a clear request - the data subject must inform about this reason in order to

8

 

to be able to remove the circumstances that are a barrier to performance and to do what is necessary
measures to fulfill your request. Based on the above, the Authority
finds that the Respondent violated Article 12 (2) of the GDPR when a
did not inform the person concerned of his doubts regarding the right of representation, and did not call the
for the unequivocal proof of the right of representation.

 
(38) Based on the above, the Authority further states that the Respondent violated the
Applicant's right of access according to Article 15 (1) GDPR, when the access
did not give a complete answer to his request, as the entire request could have been fulfilled a
Answered to the applicant's home address, regardless of the Representative's representation authority
since its existence.

 
IV.3. Legal consequences
 
(39)

(40)

 
(41)

 
(42)

(43)

(44)

The Authority finds that the Respondent has violated Article 12 (2) of the GDPR and
of Article 15 (1) and, therefore, granting the Applicant's request, Article 58 (2) of the GDPR
shall be convicted on the basis of point b).
 
The Authority rejects the Applicant's request to oblige the Applicant a
to delete your phone number, given that the phone number was provided by the Applicant
does not treat it as the Applicant's contact information for claim management purposes, it is a
is not listed in the claims management register.

At the request of the Applicant, the Authority orders the
The Requester's request for access is accepted in accordance with Section IV.2 of this decision. according to point
for the fulfillment of all personal data and data management purposes.

The Authority imposes a data protection fine on the Applicant and makes the decision public
bringing
rejects your request. The reason for this is, on the one hand, because e
the application of legal consequences does not directly affect the rights or legitimate interests of the Applicant,
such a decision of the Authority does not create any right or obligation for him, as a result
with regard to the application of these legal consequences falling within the scope of enforcing the public interest -
regarding the imposition of a fine and the publication of the decision - the Applicant did not
Akr. is considered a customer. Based on paragraph 10.§ (1), therefore, a request in this respect
there is no place for its submission, this part of the submission cannot be interpreted as a request.

In the matter of whether the imposition of a data protection fine is justified, the Authority is the general one
Article 83 (2) of the data protection decree and Infotv.75/A. considered ex officio on the basis of §
all the circumstances of the case and established that the violation revealed during this procedure
there is no need to impose a data protection fine, the infringement is a sufficient measure
establishing and obligating the Requester to fulfill the Requester's access request.
 
The Authority considers it sufficient to convict the Respondent for unlawful data management,
because you have not previously violated the provisions of the GDPR, the established violation does not
affects special categories of personal data. In addition, the Respondent is only partially
did not comply with the Requester's access request, thus improper fulfillment of the request
infringement caused by can be considered of minor importance.
Based on the above, the Authority decided in accordance with the provisions of the relevant section.

(45)
 
A. Other questions

(46)

The competence of the Authority is set by Infotv. Paragraphs (2) and (2a) of § 38 define it, and its competence is
covers the entire territory of the country.

 

9

(47)

(48)

(49)

(50)

(51)

 
(52)

 

 
The decision is in Art. 80-81 § and Infotv. It is based on paragraph (1) of § 61. The decision is in Art.
Based on § 82, paragraph (1), it becomes final upon its publication.
 
The Akr. § 112, and § 116, paragraph (1), and § 114, paragraph (1) with the decision
and there is a legal remedy against the termination order through an administrative lawsuit.
 
The rules of the administrative trial are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Procedure
hereinafter: Kp.) is defined. The Kp. Based on § 12, paragraph (1), by decision of the Authority
the administrative lawsuit against falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is referred to in the Kp. Section 13, paragraph (3).
Based on point a) subpoint aa), the Metropolitan Court is exclusively competent. The Kp. Section 27 (1)
legal representation in a lawsuit within the jurisdiction of the court based on paragraph b).
obligatory. The Kp. According to paragraph (6) of § 39, the submission of the claim is administrative
does not have the effect of postponing the entry into force of the act.
 
The Kp. Paragraph (1) of § 29 and, in view of this, Pp. According to § 604, the electronic one is applicable
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of administration and trust services. law (a
hereinafter: E-administration act) according to § 9, paragraph (1), point b) of the customer's legal representative
obliged to maintain electronic contact.
 
The time and place of submitting the statement of claim is set by Kp. It is defined by § 39, paragraph (1). THE
information on the possibility of a request to hold a hearing in Kp. Paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 77
is based on.

The amount of the fee for the administrative lawsuit is determined by Act XCIII of 1990 on fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45/A. Section (1) defines. From the advance payment of the fee
the Itv. Paragraph (1) of § 59 and point h) of § 62 (1) exempt the person initiating the procedure
half.

 
Budapest, November 10, 2021.

 

  

 

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi

president

c. professor

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

10

