Decision 01/2022 on the dispute arisen on the draft decision

of the French Supervisory Authority regarding Accor SA

under Article 65(1)(a) GDPR

Adopted on 15 June 2022

adopted

1

Table of contents
1
2

2.1
2.2
2.3

5.1
5.2
5.3
5.4

Summary of THE DISPUTE ............................................................................................................... 4
Conditions for adopting a binding decision..................................................................................... 7
Objection expressed by a CSA in relation to a draft decision ................................................. 7
The LSA does not follow the relevant and reasoned objection to the draft decision............. 8
Conclusions on the competence of the EDPB ......................................................................... 8
The Right to good administration.................................................................................................... 8
Structure of the binding decision.................................................................................................... 9
On the corrective measures - in particular, the calculation of the administrative fine.................. 9
Analysis by the LSA in the Draft Decision................................................................................ 9
Summary of the objection raised by the PL SA ..................................................................... 11
Position of the LSA on the objection..................................................................................... 12
Analysis of the EDPB.............................................................................................................. 12
Assessment of whether the objection is relevant and reasoned.................................. 13
5.4.1
5.4.2
Assessment on the merits ............................................................................................. 14
Binding Decision ............................................................................................................................ 20
Final remarks................................................................................................................................. 20

3
4
5

6
7

adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having  regard  to Article  63  and  Article 65(1)(a) of  the  Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of  the European
Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
(hereinafter “GDPR”)1,

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20182,

Having regard to Article 11 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure3,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter the “EDPB”) is to ensure the
consistent application of the GDPR throughout the European Economic Area (hereinafter the ‘’EEA’’).
To that effect, it follows from Article 60 GDPR that the lead supervisory authority (hereinafter the
“LSA”) shall cooperate with the other supervisory authorities concerned (hereinafter the “CSAs”) in an
endeavour to reach consensus, that the LSA and CSAs shall exchange all relevant information with each
other, and that the LSA shall, without delay, communicate the relevant information on the matter to
the other supervisory authorities concerned. The LSA shall without delay submit a draft decision to the
other CSAs for their opinion and take due account of their views.

(2) Where any of the CSAs expressed a reasoned and relevant objection (“RRO”) on the draft decision
in accordance with Article 4(24) GDPR and Article 60(4) GDPR and the LSA does not intend to follow
the RRO or considers that the objection is not reasoned and relevant, the LSA shall submit this matter
to the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63 GDPR.

(3) Pursuant to Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, the EDPB shall issue a binding decision concerning all the matters
which are the subject of RROs, in particular whether there is an infringement of the GDPR.

(4) The binding decision of the EDPB shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the members of the
EDPB, pursuant to Article 65(2) GDPR in conjunction with Article 11(4) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure,
within one month after the Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file
is complete. The deadline may be extended by a further month, taking into account the complexity of
the subject-matter upon decision of the Chair on its own initiative or at the request of at least one
third of the members of the EDPB.

(5) In accordance with Article 65(3) GDPR, if, in spite of such an extension, the EDPB has not been able
to adopt a decision within the timeframe, it shall do so within two weeks following the expiration of
the extension by a simple majority of its members.

(6) In accordance with Article 11(6) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure, only the English text of the binding
decision of the EDPB is authentic as it is the language of the EDPB adoption procedure.

1 OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, page 1.
2 References to “Member States” made throughout this decision should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.
3 EDPB Rules of Procedure, adopted on 25 May 2018, as last modified and adopted on 6 April 2022.
adopted

3

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING BINDING DECISION

1 SUMMARY OF THE DISPUTE

1.

2.

3.

This  document  contains  a  binding  decision  adopted  by  the  EDPB 
in accordance  with
Article 65(1)(a) GDPR. The decision concerns the dispute arisen following a draft decision (hereinafter
“Draft Decision”) issued by the French supervisory authority (“Commission Nationale de l'Informatique
et des Libertés", hereinafter the “FR SA”, also referred to in this document as the “LSA”) and the
subsequent objection expressed by one supervisory authority concerned or “CSA”, namely the Polish
supervisory  authority  (“Urząd  Ochrony  Danych  Osobowych”,  hereinafter  the  “PL  SA”).  The Draft
Decision at  issue  relates  to  a  complaint-based inquiry commenced by  the  FR  SA (hereinafter,  the
‘’Inquiry’’), concerning whether ACCOR  SA (hereinafter,  “ACCOR”), a company operating in  the
hospitality  sector,  complies  with  its  obligations  under  the  GDPR.  This Inquiry followed several
complaints that had been  lodged  against  ACCOR  with  the  FR  SA, as  well  as with  the  following
complaint-receiving supervisory authorities: the PL SA, the Spanish supervisory authority (‘’Agencia
Española de Protección de Datos’’, hereinafter the “ES SA”), the Lower Saxony supervisory authority
(‘’Landesbeauftragte  für  den  Datenschutz  Niedersachen’’,  hereinafter  ‘’DE-NI SA’’),  the  Saarland
supervisory authority (‘’Unabhängiges Datenschutzzentrum Saarland’’, hereinafter the ‘’DE-SL SA’’)
and the United Kingdom supervisory authority (‘Information Commissioner’s Office’’, hereinafter the
‘’UK SA’’)4.
Between November 2018 and December 2019, the FR SA received 11 complaints against ACCOR. These
complaints concerned a failure to take into account the right to object to the receipt of marketing
messages by mail and/or difficulties encountered in exercising the right of access5.

Upon receipt of these complaints, the FR SA qualified the activities falling within the scope of the
above-mentioned complaints as cross-border processing in accordance with Article 4(23) GDPR. As the
main establishment of ACCOR (as defined in Article 4(16) GDPR) was found to be in France, the FR SA
was  identified  as  being  the  LSA,  within  the  meaning  of  the  GDPR, in  respect  of  the  cross-border
processing carried out by ACCOR6 ,7.

4 Note: Paragraph 5 of the Draft Decision mistakenly refers to this complaint as having been lodged with the Irish
supervisory authority.
5 Draft Decision, paragraphs 3 and 5.
6 Draft decision, paragraph 3.
7 The  following  supervisory  authorities  were 
identified  as  CSAs:  the  Austrian  supervisory  authority,
(“Österreichische  Datenschutzbehörde“),  the  Belgian  supervisory  authority,  (“Autorité  de  la  protection  des
données - Gegevensbeschermingsautoriteit (APD-GBA)”), the Bulgarian supervisory authority (“Commission for
Personal Data Protection“), the Croatian supervisory authority (“Croatian Personal Data Protection Agency“), the
Czech  supervisory  authority  (“Office  for  Personal  Data  Protection“),  the  Danish  supervisory  authority
(“Datatilsynet“),  the  Estonian  supervisory  authority  (“Estonian  Data  Protection  Inspectorate  (Andmekaitse
Inspektsioon)),  the  Greek  supervisory  authority (“Hellenic  Data  Protection  Authority”),  the  Irish  supervisory
authority (“Data Protection Commission“), the Italian  supervisory authority (“Garante per la protezione dei dati
personali”), the Latvian supervisory authority (“Data State Inspectorate”), the Lithuanian supervisory authority
(“State Data Protection Inspectorate”), the Luxembourgish supervisory authority (“Commission Nationale pour
la  Protection  des  Données”),  the  Dutch  supervisory  authority  (“Autoriteit  Persoonsgegevens”),  the  Polish
supervisory authority (“Urząd Ochrony Danych Osobowych”), the Portuguese supervisory authority (“Comissão
Nacional de Proteção de Dados”), the Romanian supervisory authority (“The National Supervisory Authority for
Personal  Data  Processing”),  the  Slovakian  supervisory  authority  (“Office  for  Personal  Data  Protection  of  the

adopted

4

4.

The following table presents a summary of the timeline of the events leading to the submission of the
matter to the consistency mechanism:

November 2018 -
December 2019

23 December 2019

11 and 24 February
2020

February - August 2020

The  FR  SA  received eleven  complaints, against  ACCOR,  a  company
established in France. Five of these complaints were transmitted to
the FR SA from the following complaint-receiving SAs: DE-NI SA, DE-
SL SA, ES SA, UK SA and PL SA.
After the investigation,  the  FR  SA  submitted  a  first  draft  decision
pursuant to Article 60(3) GDPR to the CSAs, to which several of them
raised objections. Following this, the FR SA decided to halt the Article
60 procedure in question in order to further investigate the matter8.
To further investigate the matter, the FR SA made an inspection at
ACCOR’s premises on 11 February 2020 and an online inspection was
carried out on 24 February 20209.
On various dates, ACCOR sent additional information to the FR SA by
letters10.

24 November 2020

The rapporteur appointed by the FR SA delivered her report11, which
was sent to ACCOR12.

supervisory 

authority  of

Baden-Württemberg 

(“Integritetsskyddsmyndigheten”),

Slovak Republic“), the Slovenian supervisory authority (“Information Commissioner of the Republic of Slovenia”),
the  Spanish  supervisory  authority  (“Agencia  Española  de  Protección  de  Datos’’),  the Swedish  supervisory
authority 
(“Der
Landesbeauftragte  für  den  Datenschutz  und  die  Informationsfreiheit  Baden-Württemberg“),  supervisory
authority  of  Bavaria  (non-public  sector)  (“Bayerisches  Landesamt  für Datenschutzaufsicht”),  supervisory
authority of Berlin (“Berliner Beauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit), supervisory authority of
Brandenburg (“Die Landesbeauftragte für den Datenschutz und für das Recht auf Akteneinsicht Brandenburg“),
supervisory authority of Bremen (“Die Landesbeauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit der Freien
Hansestadt Bremen“), supervisory authority of Hamburg (“Der Hamburgische Beauftragte für Datenschutz und
Informationsfreiheit“),  supervisory  authority  of Hesse  (“Der  Hessische  Beauftragte  für  Datenschutz  und
Informationsfreiheit“),  supervisory  authority  of  Lower  Saxony  (“Die  Landesbeauftragte  für  den  Datenschutz
Niedersachsen),  supervisory  authority  of Mecklenburg-Western  Pomerania  (“Der  Landesbeauftragte  für
Datenschutz  und  Informationsfreiheit  Mecklenburg-Vorpommern“),  supervisory  authority  of North  Rhine-
Westphalia (“Landesbeauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit Nordrhein-Westfalen“), supervisory
authority  of Rhineland-Palatinate  (“Der  Landesbeauftragte  für  den  Datenschutz  und  die  Informationsfreiheit
Rheinland-Pfalz”),  supervisory  authority  of
(“Unabhängiges  Datenschutzzentrum  Saarland
Landesbeauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit“), supervisory authority of Saxony (“Die Sächsische
Datenschutzbeauftragte“),  supervisory  authority  of Saxony-Anhalt  (“Landesbeauftragter  für  den  Datenschutz
Sachsen-Anhalt“), supervisory authority of Schleswig-Holstein (“Unabhängiges Landeszentrum für Datenschutz
Schleswig-Holstein“) and supervisory authority of Thuringia (“Thüringer Landesbeauftragter für den Datenschutz
und die Informationsfreiheit“).
8 Draft Decision, paragraphs 6-8.
9 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.
10 Ibid.
11 Report proposing the imposition of a sanction on the company ACCOR, (hereinafter, the “Report’’).
12 Draft Decision, paragraph 11-12.

Saarland 

adopted

5

22 December 2020

ACCOR  sent  the  FR  SA  its  written  comments  on  the  report  of  the
rapporteur of the FR SA13.

28 January 2021

ACCOR presented oral observations on the report of the rapporteur
before the FR SA14.

30 April 2021

28 May 2021

21 October 2021

22 October 2021

27 October 2021

The FR SA shared a new Draft Decision with the CSAs in accordance
with Article 60(3) GDPR.

The  PL  SA 
Article 60(4) GDPR (hereinafter, the “PL SA objections”).

three objections 

raised 

in  accordance  with

The rapporteur appointed by the FR SA delivered an addendum15 to
her report following the submission of the PL SA objections.

The  FR  SA communicated  both  the  PL  SA objections and  the
Addendum of the rapporteur to ACCOR.

At the request of ACCOR, the FR SA shared the Draft Decision with
ACCOR.

29 November 2021

ACCOR  sent  the  FR  SA  its  written  observations16 on  the PL  SA
objections.

13 January 2022

The FR SA adopted the “Deliberation of the Restricted Committee n°
SAN-2022-001” regarding ACCOR in which it provides its views on the
PL SA objections and explains why it decided not to follow them17.

5.

6.

On  18  February 2022, the  FR  SA triggered the  dispute  resolution  process via the  information  and
communication system mentioned in Article 17 of the EDPB Rules of Procedure, namely the Internal
Market Information System (IMI). Following the submission by the LSA of the matter at hand to the
EDPB in accordance with Article 60(4) GDPR, the EDPB Secretariat assessed the completeness of the
file on behalf of the Chair in line with Article 11(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure. On 22 February
2022 the EDPB Secretariat confirmed to the FR SA the reception of the file.

On the same date, 22 February 2022, the PL SA informed the FR SA of the withdrawal of one of its
three objections. The FR SA communicated this information to the EDPB Secretariat on 23 March 2022.

13 Draft Decision, paragraph 13; The company ACCOR SA's written comments, 22 December 2020, (hereinafter,
‘’ACCOR’s December 2020 observations”).
14 Draft Decision, paragraph 14; The company ACCOR SA’s hearing transcript during the session of the CNIL’s
restricted committee of 28 January 2021 (hereinafter “ACCOR’s January 2021 observations”).
15 Addendum  of  21  October  2021  to  the  report  proposing  a  sanction  against  ACCOR  (hereinafter, the
“Addendum’’).
16 ACCOR SA's written observations, 29 November 2021, (hereinafter, “ACCOR’s November 2021 observations’’).
17 Deliberation of the Restricted Committee n° SAN-2022-001 regarding the company ACCOR SA, 13  January
2022, (hereinafter, the ‘’Deliberation on the PL SA objections’’).
adopted

6

7.

8.

9.

On 15 March 2022, the EDPB Secretariat contacted the FR SA to request additional documents and
information.  Following  this  request,  the  FR  SA  submitted  additional  information to  the  EDPB
Secretariat on 22 and 23 March 2022 and underlined that more information would follow.

On 25 March 2022, the PL SA confirmed to the EDPB Secretariat that there was no longer a dispute
with regard to one of the two remaining objections.

On 11 April 2022, the FR SA submitted 17 additional documents on IMI.

10. On 22 April 2022, the EDPB Secretariat contacted the FR SA to ask some follow up questions regarding

the completeness of the file to which the FR SA replied on 26 April 2022.

11. On 27 April 2022, after the FR SA and the Chair of the EDPB confirmed the completeness of the file,

the EDPB Secretariat, on behalf of the Chair, circulated the file to all the Members of the EDPB.

12.

A matter that was specifically scrutinised by the EDPB Secretariat concerned the right to be heard, as
required  by  Article  41(2)(a)  of  the  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights. On  15  March  2022,  the  EDPB
Secretariat contacted the FR SA in order to confirm, inter alia, whether ACCOR had been given the
opportunity to exercise its right to be heard regarding documents that were submitted to the EDPB for
making its decision. Additionally, on 29 April 2022, the Chair of the EDPB contacted ACCOR in order to
offer it the opportunity to exercise its right to be heard with respect to the dispute before the EDPB.
ACCOR provided its views on 13 May 202218. Further details on this matter are provided in Section 3
below.

13.

The Chair decided, in compliance with Article 65(3) GDPR in conjunction with Article 11(4) of the EDPB
Rules of Procedure, to extend the default timeline for adoption of one month by a further month on
account of the complexity of the subject-matter of the present dispute.

2 CONDITIONS FOR ADOPTING A BINDING DECISION

14.

The general conditions for the adoption of a binding decision by the EDPB are set forth in Article 60(4)
and Article 65(1)(a) GDPR19.

15.

16.

2.1 Objection expressed by a CSA in relation to a draft decision
The EDPB notes that the PL SA raised, and submitted through the IMI, an objection to the Draft Decision
concerning the amount of the fine that the FR SA proposed to impose against ACCOR. The objection
was raised pursuant to Article 60(4) GDPR and within the deadline provided therein.

The  Portuguese  supervisory  authority  (“Comissão  Nacional  de  Proteção  de  Dados”), provided
comments on the Draft Decision. As these comments are not per se objections within the meaning of
Article 4(24) GDPR, they cannot trigger the dispute resolution mechanism of Article 65(1)(a) GDPR and
therefore, are not part of the scope of the present binding decision of the EDPB20.

18 Observations of ACCOR SA, 13 May 2022, (hereinafter, “ACCOR’s May 2022 observations’’).
19 According to Article 65(1)(a) of the GDPR, the EDPB shall issue a binding decision when a supervisory authority
concerned has  raised  a  relevant  and  reasoned  objection  to  a  draft decision  of  the  LSA and  the  LSA  has  not
followed the objection or the LSA has rejected such an objection as being not relevant or reasoned.
20 See EDPB Guidelines 3/2021 on the application of Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, (hereinafter, “Guidelines on Art.
65(1)(a)”), paragraph 17.

adopted

7

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

2.2 The LSA does not follow the relevant and reasoned objection to the draft decision
In its Deliberation on the PL SA objections21, the FR SA decided not to follow the objection raised by
the PL SA and to refer the matter to the dispute resolution mechanism in accordance with Article
65(1)(a) GDPR.

2.3 Conclusions on the competence of the EDPB
The case at issue fulfils the requirements set out in Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, since the CSA raised an
objection to the Draft Decision of the LSA within the deadline provided by Article 60(4) GDPR, and the
LSA did not follow this objection.

The EDPB notes that the Draft Decision concerns not only matters in the scope of the GDPR, but also
matters  in the scope  of  Directive  2002/58/EC  (hereinafter,  “ePrivacy  Directive”)  and  the  relevant
national transposition thereof. More specifically, the Draft Decision envisages the imposition of a fine
for breaches of the GDPR and the imposition of a fine for a breach of the French Code on Post and
Electronic Communications, transposing the ePrivacy Directive in France. The EDPB is not competent
to issue a binding decision on matters that fall exclusively within the scope of the ePrivacy Directive.
The present binding decision does not address the parts of the Draft Decision concerning the national
transposition of the ePrivacy Directive.

Therefore, the EDPB is competent to adopt a binding decision on all the matters within the scope of
the GDPR which are the subject of the relevant and reasoned objection of the PL SA, in particular
whether  there  is  an  infringement  of  the  GDPR or  whether  an  envisaged  action  in  relation  to  the
controller or processor complies with the GDPR.

All findings in this decision are without prejudice to any assessment or binding decision made in other
cases  by the  EDPB,  including  with respect  to the  same  parties,  depending  on  further  and/or  new
findings.

3 THE RIGHT TO GOOD ADMINISTRATION

The  EDPB  is  subject  to  Article  41  of  the  EU  Charter  of Fundamental Rights  (right  to  good
administration). This is also reflected in Article 11 of the EDPB Rules of Procedure.

According to Article 65(2) GDPR, the EDPB decision “shall be reasoned and addressed to the lead
supervisory authority and all the supervisory authorities concerned and binding on them”. Article 65(2)
GDPR reflects the fact that the binding decision of the EDPB aims to resolve a dispute emerged among
two or more national supervisory authorities22. It is not aiming to address directly any third party.
However, as the decision adopted by the EDPB shall be binding on the concerned SAs, including the
LSA, and can be decisive for the outcome of the procedures at national level, it is necessary to assess
whether it can affect the interests of persons who were part of the procedure that gave rise to the
Draft Decision, such as the controller who will be addressed by the final decision of the LSA23.

24.

First of all, in order to address the possible right to be heard of ACCOR, the EDPB assessed whether
ACCOR had already been offered the opportunity to exercise its right to be heard in relation to the

21 Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraph 18.
22 Guidelines on Art. 65(1)(a), paragraph 97.
23 Guidelines on Art. 65(1)(a), paragraphs 98-99.

adopted

8

subject matter of the dispute to be resolved by the EDPB at national level on the documents received
in this procedure and used by the EDPB to take its binding decision24.

25. On 29 April 2022, the Chair of the EDPB contacted ACCOR informing it of the referral of the case to the
Article 65(1)(a) GDPR dispute resolution mechanism. In the same letter, the Chair of the EDPB drew
ACCOR’s attention to the fact that the PL SA no longer considered that there was a dispute in relation
to two of the three objections it had initially submitted and that therefore the subject matter of the
binding decision of the EDPB would be the remaining objection on the level of the fine. The purpose
of this letter was also to grant ACCOR the right to be heard on the documents of the file which it had
not yet had the opportunity to share its views on. The Chair of the EDPB offered ACCOR an opportunity
to provide any observation on these documents by 13 May 2022. On 13 May 2022, ACCOR sent its
observations (ACCOR’s May 2022 observations) and the French original version of ACCOR’s November
2021  observations. Following  this  submission,  the  EDPB  considered  that  ACCOR  was  given  the
opportunity to make its views effectively known in relation to the subject matter of the dispute to be
resolved by the EDPB.

26.

In light of the scope of the dispute submitted to the EDPB and of the circumstances of the case, the
Chair of the EDPB decided not to grant the complainants a right to be heard before the issuance of this
binding decision as the EDPB decision addressing an objection on the level of the fine is not likely to
affect their legal situation.

4 STRUCTURE OF THE BINDING DECISION

27. With  regard  to  the  objection  raised by  the  CSA,  the  EDPB should  first assess  whether  it  is  to  be
considered as “relevant and reasoned” within the meaning of Article 4(24) GDPR as clarified in the
Guidelines on relevant and reasoned objection25.

28. Where the EDPB finds that an objection (or a part thereof) does not meet the requirements of Article
4(24) GDPR, the EDPB does not take any position on the merits of any substantial issues raised by that
(part of the) objection in the case at issue. The merits of the substantial issues raised by an objection
should be addressed by the EDPB only if the objection is deemed to be relevant and reasoned26.

5 ON THE CORRECTIVE MEASURES - IN PARTICULAR, THE

CALCULATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE FINE

29.

5.1 Analysis by the LSA in the Draft Decision
The Draft Decision lists the criteria that the FR SA considered when deciding whether to impose an
administrative fine and on the amount of the fine27.

24 Guidelines on Art. 65(1)(a), paragraphs 105-106.
25 EDPB Guidelines 9/2020 on relevant and reasoned objection under Regulation 2016/679, version 2, adopted
on 9 March 2021, (hereinafter, “Guidelines on RRO”).
26 See Guidelines on Art. 65(1)(a)”, paragraph 63 (stating: “The EDPB will assess, in relation to each objection
raised, whether the objection meets the requirements of Article 4(24) GDPR and, if so, address the merits of the
objection in the binding decision.”)
27 Draft Decision, paragraphs 78-88.

adopted

9

30.

In the Draft Decision the FR SA indicated that “[i]n 2019, the Company [ACCOR]) generated a revenue
of €1.2 billion and a net profit of €208 million. This revenue decreased by 54% between 2019 and
2020”28.

31. With regard to the nature and seriousness of the infringement, the FR SA in its Draft Decision first took
note of the number of infringements by ACCOR, namely: “[...] lack of easily accessible and complete
information on the processing carried out, difficulties encountered in the exercise of their rights by
complainants and data security defects’’29. In this regard, the Draft Decision stressed that these failures
to comply with the GDPR concerned several fundamental principles of the applicable legislation on the
protection of personal data and that they constituted a ‘’substantial infringement’’ of data subjects’
rights30. The Draft Decision also considered the ‘’particularly large number of people affected by these
breaches since in 2019,
 million people received at least one of the ACCOR group's newsletters at
a valid e-mail address”31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

Finally, the Draft Decision went on to recall that the violations in question “had direct consequences
for the data subjects, as evidenced by the fact that the CNIL received eleven complaints relating in
particular to the right to object to marketing messages”32.

Based on the above reasoning, the FR SA concluded in its Draft Decision that a fine should be imposed
on ACCOR33.

In relation to the determination of the maximum amount of the fine, the FR SA indicated that, ”Article
83(3) of the Regulation provides that in the event of multiple breaches [...] the total amount of the fine
may  not  exceed  the  amount  set  for  the most  serious  breach”34. The FR  SA found  ACCOR to  have
breached Articles 12(1), 12(3), 13, 15(1), 21(2) and 32 GDPR, and provided in its Draft Decision that
“the maximum fine that can be imposed is €20 million or 4% of annual worldwide turnover, whichever
is higher“35.

In assessing the proportionality of the fine, the FR SA considered that ACCOR had remedied all of the
breaches  identified in  the  Draft  Decision and  that, “some  of  them,  in  relation  to  the  exercise  of
individuals' rights, were not of a structural nature’’36. In addition, the Draft Decision pointed out that
ACCOR fully cooperated with the FR SA37. Additionally, the FR SA considered the financial situation of
ACCOR, which reported “a 54% drop in turnover between 2019 and 2020’’38.

36.

The FR  SA concluded in its Draft Decision that considering the ‘’economic context caused by the Covid-
19 health crisis, its consequences on [ACCOR’s] financial situation’’, as well as “the relevant criteria of

28 Draft Decision, paragraph 2. During the assessment of the completeness of the file, the FR SA clarified that the
reference to the “revenue’’ of ACCOR in the Draft Decision should be understood as a reference to its turnover.
29 Draft Decision, paragraph 80.
30 Ibid.
31 Draft Decision, paragraph 81.
32 Draft Decision, paragraph 82.
33 Draft Decision, paragraph 83.
34 Draft Decision, paragraph 84.
35Ibid.
36 Draft Decision, paragraph 86.
37 Ibid.
38 Draft Decision, paragraph 87.

adopted

10

Article 83(2) mentioned above”, the FR SA decided to impose a fine of EUR 100,000 for the identified
infringements of the GDPR39.

37.

38.

5.2 Summary of the objection raised by the PL SA
The objection raised by the PL SA concerns the amount of the fine set out in the Draft Decision.

The PL SA argues in its objection that the amount the LSA proposed for the administrative fine is too
low for a controller like ACCOR and that the fine would not be effective, proportionate and dissuasive
as required in Article 83(1) GDPR. Therefore, the PL SA concludes that “the draft decision should be
revised accordingly and a higher financial penalty should be proposed for the infringements found in
the present case, so that the penalty meets the conditions of a proportionate, effective and dissuasive
measure”40.

39. With regard to the seriousness of the violations, the PL SA makes reference to the following factors of
Article 83(2)(a) GDPR that should be considered when assessing the severity: “the nature, scope or
purpose of processing, as well as the number of data subjects and the level of damage suffered by
them’’41. In this respect, the PL SA states that the provisions that have been infringed and the cross-
border nature of the processing indicate that the breach is of high gravity and that therefore the
proposed fine should have been higher42.

40. With regard to the assessment of the fine under 83(1) GDPR relating to the duty to impose fines which
in  each  individual  case are effective,  proportionate  and  dissuasive, the  PL  SA raises the  following
concerns.

41.

42.

Firstly,  the  PL  SA points  out  that  further  information  should  be  included  in  the  Draft  Decision
concerning  the turnover of  ACCOR.  In  this  respect, the  PL  SA  argues that  as  the  turnover  of  the
company is not provided in the Draft Decision, the information in the Draft Decision “is insufficient to
calculate the amount of the proposed fine”, since the controller’s annual turnover “may constitute the
basis for the calculation of the fine”43.

In addition, with regard to proportionality, the PL SA indicates that the Draft Decision does not provide
evidence that a higher fine could irretrievably jeopardise the viability of ACCOR. According to the PL
SA, the proportionality of the fine “applies to the solvency of the sanctioned entity. However, in order
to reduce the amount of the fine for this reason, there must be objective evidence that the imposition
of the fine would irretrievably expose the viability of the company concerned and would result in the
loss of all the value of its assets’’44. Therefore, the PL SA concludes that “taking into account [ACCOR’s]
revenue amounting to EUR 1,621,000,000 in 2020, [...], it is very unlikely that [ACCOR’s] solvency would
be threatened with a penalty even several times higher, despite the losses recorded during the Covid-
19 pandemic”45.

43. With respect to the dissuasiveness of the fine, the PL SA considers that the amount of the fine is too
low for  a  company with  a  turnover as  high  as  the turnover of  ACCOR  to effectively  deter  it  from

39 Draft Decision, paragraphs 88 and 92.
40 PL SA objections, page 4.
41 PL SA objections, page 2.
42 PL SA objections, page 2.
43 PL SA objections, page 2.
44 PL SA objections, pages 2.
45 PL SA objections, pages 2-3.

adopted

11

committing  similar  infringements  in  the  future. Furthermore, the PL  SA  is of the  opinion that the
suggested fine would not be a sufficient deterrent for other companies with a turnover similar to that
of ACCOR. In that respect, the PL SA states that the level of fine proposed by the LSA would send a
clear  signal to other  companies  that  they may  refrain  from  investing much on  data  protection
compliance, as complying with data protection rules may require a financial investment higher than a
possible fine46.

The PL SA is of the opinion that unless changes are made to the Draft Decision, this will entail a risk for
the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, and in particular a risk of violation of Article 8
of  the  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights. In  that  respect,  the  PL  SA  explained  that  the  purpose  of
corrective measures is to discourage infringements of the legislation in force and that for this reason,
imposing a remedy which is not proportionate, dissuasive and effective will not fulfil this purpose
“which  indicates  the  importance  of  the  risk  of violating  the  rights  or  freedoms  of  data  subjects
including the protection of their personal data, which is a fundamental right under Art. 8 of the Charter
of Fundamental Rights of the European Union”47.

5.3 Position of the LSA on the objection
In its Deliberation on the PL SA objections, the FR SA took the view that the objection of the PL SA is
expressed in broad terms and it does not propose a range of amounts that it would deem appropriate
for a fine nor does it make reference to any relevant precedent. In the opinion of the FR SA, the PL SA
essentially refers to the solvency and the turnover of ACCOR to justify the need to increase the amount
of the fine. However, the FR SA is of the opinion that even though the turnover is a significant element
to consider when determining the level of the fine, the other criteria provided for in Article 83(2) GDPR,
among which the seriousness of the infringements committed, have to be considered, too48.

The FR SA further explained that to determine the level of the fine against ACCOR, it had considered
that  the  infringements  in  question  had  not  been  of  structural  nature,  and that following  the
investigation  of  the  FR  SA, ACCOR  had  taken  measures  to  correct  the  breaches  in  question49. In
addition, the FR SA clarified having taken into account the significant drop in the turnover of ACCOR
between 2019-2020 as a mitigating factor under Article 83(2)(k) GDPR, due to the serious impact of
the Covid-19 health crisis to the hotel sector50.

44.

45.

46.

47.

Therefore, based on the above reasoning, the FR SA concluded that in its opinion the fine was effective,
proportionate and dissuasive51.

5.4 Analysis of the EDPB

46 PL SA objections, page 3.
47 PL SA objections, pages 3-4.
48 Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraph 13.
49 Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraphs 14-15. It is to be noted that the Guidelines on the application
and setting of administrative fines for the purposes of the Regulation 2016/679, WP 253, specifically indicate
that it would not be appropriate to give additional regard to cooperation that is already required by law (page
14). In this regard see also Article 31 GDPR.
50 Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraph 16.
51 Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraph 17.

adopted

12

48.

5.4.1 Assessment of whether the objection is relevant and reasoned
Firstly, the EDPB takes note that the LSA does not challenge whether the objection is relevant and
reasoned52.

49. With respect to the relevance of the objection, the objection of the PL SA concerns the amount of the
fine set out in the Draft Decision53. There is, therefore, a direct connection between the objection and
the Draft Decision. It is, however, to be noted that even though the PL SA refers in its objection to the
amount of the fine as a whole, i.e. including the fine that the FR SA had established for breaches
relating to the ePrivacy Directive, for the purposes of the present binding decision, as explained in the
paragraphs 18-21 above, in this decision, the EDPB does not address the parts of the Draft Decision
concerning the national transposition of the ePrivacy Directive.

50. Moreover, in its objection, the PL SA considers that the fine proposed in the Draft Decision may be
ineffective, disproportionate and non-dissuasive in the context of the present case. Furthermore, the
PL SA requests that the turnover of the company in the previous year be specified and argues that a
higher fine ought to be imposed to ensure that the fine is proportionate, effective and dissuasive in
accordance with Article 83(1) GDPR, thereby indicating how following the objection would lead to a
change in the  Draft  Decision. Therefore,  the objection in  question concerns  “whether  the  action
envisaged in the Draft Decision complies with the GDPR”. If followed, the objection would result in a
different outcome in the Draft Decision, i.e. increasing the amount of the fine. For these reasons, the
EDPB considers the objection to be relevant.

51.

52.

ACCOR argued that the objection is not reasoned, as the PL SA “[...] only expresses its objection in the
form of abstract and general remarks without basing itself on the facts of the case nor taking into
account the justifications provided by the Draft Decision”54. In ACCOR’s view, the objection further fails
to justify a conclusion different from that of the FR SA55.

The EDPB partially shares the views of ACCOR. In particular, as to the assessment of the proportionality
of the fine in relation to the seriousness of the violations (Article 83(2)(a) GDPR), the EDPB considers
that the PL SA does not put forward any substantiated reasoning in support of this claim. In particular,
the objection does not explain how “the provisions that have been infringed and the cross-border
nature of the processing”56 should have been assessed and balanced differently by the LSA for the
purpose of evaluating the seriousness of the violations. More specifically, considering that the LSA had
already found the infringements to be “substantial”57, the PL SA fails to explain how the level of the
gravity  in  the  Draft  Decision  would  change  if  the  factors  the  PL  SA  is  proposing  were  assessed
differently by the LSA. Therefore, the EDPB does not find this part of the objection to be sufficiently
reasoned.

53.

However, the EDPB notes that the remaining part of the PL SA objection is sufficiently reasoned with
regard to how the Draft Decision fails to adequately assess and apply the criteria set out in Article 83(1)
GDPR. Concerning the argument of the PL SA on the lack of information in the Draft Decision on the
turnover,  the  PL  SA provides  factual  elements  based  on  the  Draft  Decision  and  publicly  available
information  on  ACCOR’s  turnover. According  to the PL  SA,  the  alleged  lack  of  information  on  the

52 Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraphs 11-18.
53 PL SA objections, pages 1-3.
54 ACCOR’s November 2021 observations, section 2.1, page 2.
55 ACCOR’s November 2021 observations, section 2.1, page 3.
56 PL SA objections, page 2.
57 Draft Decision, paragraph 80.

adopted

13

turnover  of ACCOR may have led  to  an  incorrect  assessment  of  the  fine in  the  Draft  Decision.  In
addition, with regard to the proportionality of the fine, the PL SA provides legal arguments as to why,
in its view, the Draft Decision incorrectly reduces the amount of the fine due to the Covid-19 pandemic
and therefore a higher fine should be imposed. More specifically, the PL SA considers that ‘’in order to
reduce the amount of the fine [on the ground of the solvency of the company], there must be objective
evidence  that  the  imposition  of  the  fine  would  irretrievably  expose  the  viability  of  the  company
concerned and would result in the loss of all the value of its assets’’58. Finally, the PL SA provides legal
arguments justifying the imposition of a higher administrative fine in the Draft Decision in order to
ensure its dissuasiveness in accordance with Article 83(1) GDPR, stating that such a level of fine may
prevent ACCOR and other organisations from being deterred from committing similar infringements in
the future. For these reasons, according to the PL SA, “the unchanged draft decision entails a risk for
the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, and in particular the risk of violation of Art. 8
of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.”59

In light of the above, the EDPB notes that the PL SA articulates why it proposes amending the Draft
Decision and explains its views on the significance of the risks posed by the Draft Decision for the data
subjects. The EDPB thus considers the part of objection relating to Article 83(1) GDPR to be reasoned.

As a result, the EDPB considers that the objection raised by the PL SA is partially relevant and reasoned
pursuant to Article 4(24) GDPR (for the part relating to the application of Art. 83(1) GDPR). Accordingly,
only the merits of the substantial issues raised by the PL SA in the parts of the objection that were
found to be relevant and reasoned should be assessed.

5.4.2 Assessment on the merits
The EDPB considers that the part of the objection found to be relevant and reasoned with regard to
Article 83(1) GDPR requires an assessment of its merits as to whether in the case at hand, the Draft
Decision: (i) is missing information on the relevant turnover for setting the amount of the fine; (ii) in
terms of proportionality of the fine, should not grant a reduction of the fine to ACCOR despite the
losses it recorded during the Covid-19 pandemic; and (iii) proposes a fine that does not meet the
dissuasiveness requirement set out in Article 83(1) GDPR.

54.

55.

56.

57.

In this  regard,  the  EDPB  recalls  that  the  consistency  mechanism  may  also  be  used  to  promote  a
consistent application of administrative fines60.

Preliminary matter: the relevant turnover for setting the amount of the fine

58.

The PL SA stated in its objection that the Draft Decision does not provide the amount of ACCOR’s
annual turnover in 2020 that, in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR on administrative fines,
may constitute the basis for calculating the amount of the fine61. The PL SA further explained that the
annual turnover of ACCOR in 2020 to be taken into account as the basis for the calculation of the
maximum amount of the fine is of EUR 1,621,000,00062.

58 Ibid.
59 PL SA objections, pages 2-3.
60 See GDPR, Recital 150; Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 34 and Guidelines on Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, paragraph
91.
61 PL SA objections, page 2.
sources
the 
62
(https://group.accor.com/en/finance/events-and-announcements/annual-and-half-yearly-information), PL SA’s
Objection, page 2.

According 

available 

publicly 

derived 

figure 

from 

this 

SA, 

PL 

to 

adopted

14

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

ACCOR expressed the view that the amount of the fine indicated by the PL SA in its objection is factually
inaccurate. In this regard, ACCOR pointed out that its 2020 turnover was of EUR 531,000,000 and not
of 1,621,000,000,63 as indicated by the PL SA.

The EDPB notes that the objection of the PL SA refers to the consolidated turnover of the entire ACCOR
Group of 2020, while the Draft Decision refers only to the turnover of the controller, i.e. ACCOR SA in
2019. As the undertaking to be considered for the determination of the relevant turnover was not
questioned by the PL SA in its objection, the EDPB finds that it should not issue a decision on whether
the LSA should amend its Draft Decision in this respect.

Furthermore, the EDPB has previously decided that the turnover of an undertaking is not relevant
exclusively for the determination of the maximum amount of the fine in accordance with Article 83(4)-
(6) GDPR, but should also be considered for the actual calculation of the fine, too64. Therefore, the
EDPB considers that the turnover figure is an important element to be referred to in the Draft Decision.
In addition, the EDPB recalls that the date of the final decision taken by the LSA pursuant to Article
65(6) GDPR is the event from which the preceding financial year should be considered65. Nonetheless,
in the context where a draft decision is circulated by an LSA to the CSAs pursuant to Article 60(3) GDPR,
the EDPB agrees with the approach that this draft decision include a provisional figure based on the
most up to date financial information available at that time66.

The EDPB further notes  that  the  Draft  Decision  was  issued  on  30  April  2021. During  the  dispute
resolution procedure, the FR SA clarified that, at that point in time, only the financial statement for
2019 was available, whereas the financial statement for 2020 had yet to be filed. As a result, in its Draft
Decision67, the FR SA expressly referred only to the turnover generated by ACCOR in 2019, by indicating
that ACCOR's turnover fell by 54% between 2019 and 2020, based on a provisional calculation that
ACCOR  had  provided  to  the  FR  SA. Thus,  even  though  the  turnover  from  2020  is  not  expressly
mentioned in the Draft Decision, the Draft Decision includes what was the latest available information
on the financial results of ACCOR, and allows the identification of an estimate of the turnover of 2020
by calculating the 46% of the turnover from 2019, which was provided in the Draft Decision. Therefore,
contrary  to  the contention of  the PL  SA,  the Draft  Decision did  provide  information  on  ACCOR’s
turnover from 2020, albeit indirectly and based on provisional data.

Therefore, the EDPB agrees with the approach taken by the FR SA in the present case to include the
provisional  turnover  figure  based  on  the  most  up  to  date  financial  information  available when  it
circulated its Draft Decision to the CSAs pursuant to Article 60(3) GDPR. However, the EDPB recalls that
when issuing its final decision in accordance with Article 65(6) GDPR, the FR SA shall take into account
the undertaking’s annual turnover corresponding to the financial year preceding the date of its final
decision, i.e. the turnover of ACCOR in 2021.

63 ACCOR’s November 2021 observations, section 2.2.1, pages 3-4.
64 EDPB, Binding Decision 1/2021 on the the dispute arisen on the draft decision of the Irish Supervisory Authority
regarding WhatsApp Ireland under Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, adopted on 28 July 2021, paragraphs 405-412.
65 EDPB, Binding Decision 1/2021, paragraphs 297-298.
66 EDPB, Binding Decision 1/2021, paragraph 298 which also refers to the fact that Article 60(6) GDPR, providing
that the LSA and CSA are bound by the draft decision on which they (are deemed to) agree, in any case does not
apply to the present situation.
67 Draft Decision, paragraph 2.

adopted

15

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

Reduction of the amount of the fine by the LSA

The EDPB notes that to calculate the fine the FR SA has taken into account ‘’the economic context
caused by the Covid-19 health crisis’’ and ‘’its consequences on [ACCOR’s] financial situation’’68, which,
as referred to in the Draft Decision, reported a 54% drop in its turnover between 2019 and 2020 due
to the health crisis linked to the Covid-19 pandemic 69.

In its objection, the PL SA claims that, in order to ensure proportionality of the fine, the FR SA should
not grant a reduction of the fine to ACCOR. In this respect, the PL SA argues that in order to reduce the
amount of the fine on account of its impact on the solvency of the sanctioned entity, it should be
objectively demonstrated that the imposition of this fine "would irretrievably expose the viability of
the company concerned and would result in the loss of all the value of its assets"70. Accordingly, the
PL SA underlines that, as the turnover of ACCOR amounts to 1.6 billion euros in 202071, "it is very
unlikely’’ that the solvency of the ACCOR would be threatened by a fine, even several times higher,
despite the loss of turnover incurred by ACCOR during the Covid-19 pandemic72.

In response to this objection, the FR SA expresses the view that “even though the turnover of the
controller is a significant element when determining the amount of the fine, it should go together with
all the other criteria provided for by Article 83(2) of the GDPR’’73. With regard to the calculation of the
fine, the FR SA further clarified having taken into account the significant impact of the covid-19 health
crisis on the hotel sector as a mitigating factor under Article 83(2)(k) GDPR.74

In its observations communicated to the EDPB, ACCOR states that the risk of damage to the solvency
of the company is not a necessary element to be proven by a supervisory authority, in order to be able
to reduce the amount of the fine75. On this specific point, ACCOR refers to the EDPB binding decision
1/2021 in which the EDPB indicates that the turnover of a company can be taken into account, among
other elements, for the calculation of the fine. Moreover, ACCOR underlines that the initial amount of
the fine proposed by the Rapporteur (EUR 1,000,000) was calculated by reference to the turnover of
the company in 2019, before the Covid-19 crisis. According to ACCOR,  considering that the EDPB held
that the turnover to be taken into account for the calculation of the fine must correspond to that of
the year  preceding the  decision,  it  is logical that  the  FR  SA considered the  significant  decrease  in
ACCOR's revenues between 2019 and 202076.

Firstly, the EDPB acknowledges that, in the context of the assessment of the proportionality of the fine
under Article 83(1) GDPR, an LSA, according to its national law, may reduce the fine on the basis of the
inability to pay principle but only in very exceptional circumstances. Indeed, similarly to the practice
observed in the field of competition law77, in order for an LSA to consider such a reduction on the
grounds  of the inability  to  pay the  fine,  the requesting  undertaking shall demonstrate an
insurmountable difficulty in paying the proposed amount of the fine. In particular, the undertaking

68 Draft Decision, paragraph 87.
69 Draft Decision, paragraphs 87-88.
70 PL SA objections, page 2.
71 See clarifications provided in this regard in paragraph 60 above.
72 PL SA objections, pages 2-3.
73 Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraph 13.
74 Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraph 16.
75 ACCOR November 2021 Observations, section 2.2.b, page 6.
76 Ibid.
77 See on this principle, for instance, the Commission Guidelines on the method of setting fines imposed pursuant
to Article 23(2)(a) of Regulation No 1/2003 (2006/C 210/02).

adopted

16

concerned shall provide objective evidence that the proposed amount of the fine would irretrievably
jeopardise its economic viability and cause its assets to lose all or most of their value78. In addition,
these risks need only to be assessed where a specific ‘’social and economic context’’ exists79.

69.

In the present case, the EDPB observes that, contrary to what is claimed by the PL SA, the reduction of
the amount of the fine by the LSA was not decided on the ground of the inability to pay of ACCOR, but
rather on the basis of the drop in the turnover directly resulting from the difficult economic context in
which  the  company was  operating80.  Considering  that  the  ground  of  the  inability  to  pay  was not
invoked in the course of the proceeding, the EDPB considers that the LSA is not required to amend its
Draft Decision in order to assess the company's inability to pay when assessing the proportionality of
the fine under Article 83(1) GDPR.

70. With regard to the justification provided by the LSA for the reduction of the fine, the EDPB recalls that
the turnover of the company concerned, as it provides a relevant indication of the size of the company,
already constitutes one of the elements to be taken into account by the LSA to ensure the fine is
effective,  proportionate  and  dissuasive  in  each  individual  case81. Furthermore,  the  EDPB  draws
attention to the fact that, given the overarching nature of Article 83(1) GDPR, the LSA must ensure that
the circumstances taken into account when calculating the fine are not counted twice. Therefore, as
the turnover is already to be considered within the assessment under Article 83(1) GDPR, the EDPB
considers that the LSA should not take into account the drop in the turnover of ACCOR as a mitigating
factor under Article 83(2)(k) GDPR too. Without prejudice to the above, the EDPB notes, however, the
deliberately open-ended wording of Article 83(1) GDPR, which leaves a certain degree of flexibility to
the LSA in the choice of the elements to be taken into account in order to ensure that the final amount
of the fine complies with the principles of effectiveness, proportionality and dissuasiveness82. On this
basis, the EDPB considers that the LSA may reduce the fine on the basis of the poor financial conditions
of a sector of the undertaking concerned, insofar as it demonstrates that the relevant turnover for the
calculation of the fine83 does not, on its own, adequately reflect its financial capacity due to exceptional
and recent84 sectoral economic circumstances which directly and substantially affect its activities.
In
any event, the EDPB considers that the mere finding that an undertaking is in an adverse or loss-making
financial situation does not automatically warrant a reduction of the amount of the fine85. Therefore,
the final decision on whether or not to consider, in the calculation of the fine, the turnover in the light
of recent developments of the sectoral economic circumstances leading to the poor financial situation

78 See Tokai Carbon and Others v Commission, (Joined cases T-236/01, T-239/01, T-244/01 to T-246/01, T-251/01
and T-252/01, judgment delivered on 29 April 2004), ECLI:EU:T:2004:118, §372; Westfälische Drahtindustrie and
Others v Commission (Case T-393/10, judgment delivered on 15 July 2015), ECLI:EU:T:2015:515, §§292-294.
79 See SGL Carbon v Commission, (Case C-308/04 P, judgment delivered on 29 June2006), ECLI:EU:C:2006:433,
§106.
80 Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraphs 13-16.
81 Binding Decision 1/2021, paragraphs 405-412.
82 According to Article 83(1) ‘’ Each supervisory authority shall ensure that the imposition of administrative fines
pursuant to this Article in respect of infringements of this Regulation referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall in
each individual case be effective, proportionate and dissuasive’’ (emphasis added).
83 i.e. the turnover of the year preceding the decision. See paragraph 63 above.
84 For example, the term "recent" may capture situations where the exceptional sectoral economic circumstances
arise after the year of reference for the relevant turnover or soon before this year of reference comes to an end,
so that the turnover of the undertaking no longer reflects accurately the company's financial capacity.
85 see Dansk Rørindustri and Others v Commission (joined cases C-189/02 P, C-202/02 P, C-205/02 P to C-208/02
P and C-213/02 P, judgment delivered on 28 June 2005), ECLI:EU:C:2005:408, §327 and the case law cited therein.

adopted

17

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

76.

of the undertaking not reflected in the relevant turnover belongs to the LSA, in accordance with its
own national fining practices.

In light of the above, the EDPB notes that nothing in the present case indicates that the turnover of
ACCOR of 2020 did not appropriately reflect the financial situation of this undertaking at the time the
Draft Decision was issued86.

The EDPB therefore instructs the LSA, in order to ensure proportionality of the fine in accordance with
Article 83(1) GDPR, to take into account the financial situation of ACCOR on the basis of the 2021
turnover figure of this undertaking, without considering the reduction of the turnover due to the Covid-
19 pandemic as a mitigating factor under Article 83(2)(k) GDPR.

Dissuasiveness of the fine under Article 83(1) GDPR

In the part of its objection that was deemed to be relevant and reasoned by the EDPB, the PL SA
contends that the amount of the fine set by the LSA does not fulfill the dissuasiveness requirement set
out  in  Article  83(1)  GDPR,  which  provides  that “Each  supervisory  authority  shall  ensure  that  the
imposition of administrative fines pursuant to this Article in respect of infringements of this Regulation
referred  to  in  paragraphs  4,  5  and 6 shall  in  each  individual  case  be  effective,  proportionate  and
dissuasive.” In particular, the PL SA argues that the proposed amount of the fine is not high enough to
deter ACCOR itself or other entities from committing similar infringements in the future87.

In its observations submitted to the EDPB, ACCOR stated that it agreed with the reasoning developed
by the FR SA, which concluded that the administrative fine was sufficiently dissuasive88.

It  should first be  noted  that  the setting  of  a  fine  is  not  an  arithmetically  precise  exercise,89 and
supervisory authorities have a certain margin of discretion in this respect90. Nonetheless, the EDPB
considers that even though an LSA is not required, under its duty to state reasons, to provide detailed
figures  on  the method  it  used for calculating  the  fine,  the LSA should indicate  the  factors  that
influenced the exercise of its discretion when setting fines, in particular with regard to the deterrent
effect of the proposed fine.

In addition, the EDPB recalls that to ensure that a fine is dissuasive, it must be set at a level which
ensures that it has a genuinely deterrent effect.91 In order to ensure deterrence, the fine must be set
at a level that discourages both the controller or processor concerned as well as other controllers or
processors carrying out similar processing operations from repeating the same or a similar unlawful

86 In this respect, the EDPB recalls that, when issuing its final decision in accordance with Article 65(6) GDPR, the
FR SA shall use the updated turnover of ACCOR of 2021. See paragraph 63 above.
87 PL SA objections, page 2.
88 ACCOR’s May 2022 observations, page 1, referring to: Deliberation on the PL SA objections, paragraphs 11-18.
89 See, inter alia, Altice Europe NV v Commission (Case T-425/18, judgment delivered on 22 September 2021),

ECLI:EU:T:2021:607,  §362;  Romana  Tabacchi  v  Commission  (Case  T‑11/06,  judgment  delivered  on  5  October

2011), ECLI:EU:T:2011:560, §266.
90 See,
ECLI:EU:T:2011:278, §38.
91 EDPB, Decision 01/2020 on the dispute arisen on the draft decision of the Irish Supervisory Authority regarding
Twitter International Company under Article 65(1)(a)  GDPR, Adopted on 9 November 2020), paragraph 196;
EDPB, Decision 1/2021, paragraph 415.

inter  alia,  Caffaro  Srl  v  Commission  (Case T-192/06,  judgment  delivered  on  16  June  2011),

adopted

18

77.

conduct,92 while not going beyond what is necessary to attain that objective93. Moreover, the size of
the undertaking concerned is one of the elements that should be taken into account in the calculation
of the amount of the fine in order to ensure its dissuasive nature94. Taking into consideration the
resources of the undertaking in question is indeed justified by the impact sought on the undertaking
concerned, in order to ensure that the fine has sufficient deterrent effect, given that the fine must not
be negligible in the light, particularly, of its financial capacity95.

In light of the above, the EDPB considers that the fine in the present case relating to “substantial”
infringements96 must be set at a level that is not negligible relative to ACCOR’s turnover, and that
would deter not only ACCOR but also other organisations from committing similar infringements in the
future. In this respect, the EDPB notes that although the resources of ACCOR decreased significantly
between 2019 and 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the fine amount proposed by the LSA would
represent only 0,02% of the 2020 estimated turnover of ACCOR. The EDPB considers that this amount
would qualify as negligible in the circumstances of the present case, in particular in view of the fact
that it was imposed for infringements that the LSA considered to be “substantial”97. Hence, the EDPB
is of the view that such an amount would not discourage ACCOR and other companies from committing
similar “substantial” infringements, and even less from committing less “substantial” infringements,
as the risk they would face for such infringements would be a minimal retribution relative to their
economic size.

78.

Therefore, the EDPB finds the fine provided for in the Draft Decision is not sufficiently dissuasive. On
this basis, the EDPB instructs the LSA to reassess the elements it relied upon to calculate the amount
of the fine in order to ensure that it meets the criterion of dissuasiveness under Article 83(1) GDPR,
taking account, in particular, of the relevant turnover of ACCOR98.

CONCLUSIONS
The EDPB instructs the FR SA to re-assess its envisaged corrective measure in terms of administrative
fine in accordance with the conclusions reached by the EDPB, namely:

- the relevant turnover is the turnover corresponding to the financial year preceding the date of the
final decision taken by the LSA pursuant to Article 65(6) GDPR (paragraphs 58-63).

- to ensure that the fine is proportionate under Article 83(1) GDPR taking into account, as described in
the binding decision, the relevant turnover of ACCOR (paragraphs 64-72).

92 See, inter alia, Versalis Spa v European Commission (Case C-511/11, judgment delivered on 13 June 2013),
ECLI:EU:C:2013:386, §94.

judgment  delivered  22  September  2021),
ECLI:EU:T:2021:60,  § 45  (stating:  “the  severity  of  the  penalties  imposed  must  …  be  commensurate  with  the
seriousness of the infringements for which they are imposed, in particular by ensuring a genuinely deterrent
effect, while not going beyond what is necessary to attain that objective”).
94 EDPB, Decision 1/2021, paragraphs 405-412.

93 MT  v  Landespolizeidirektion Steiermark  (Case  C‑231/20,
95 YKK  and  Others  v  Commission  (Case  C‑408/12  P,

judgment  delivered  on  4  September  2014),
ECLI:EU:C:2014:2153, § 85; Lafarge v European Commission, (Case C-413/08 P, judgment delivered on 17 June
2010), ECLI:EU:C:2010:346, § 104 and the case law cited therein.
96 Draft Decision, paragraph 80.
97 Ibid.
98 In this respect, the EDPB recalls that, when issuing its final decision in accordance with Article 65(6) GDPR, the
FR SA shall use the updated turnover of ACCOR of 2021. See paragraph 63 above.
adopted

19

- to reassess the elements it relied upon to calculate the amount of the fine in order to ensure it meets
the criterion of dissuasiveness under Article 83(1) GDPR, taking account, in particular, the relevant
turnover of ACCOR (paragraphs 73-78).

6 BINDING DECISION

79.

In light of the above, and in accordance with the task of the EDPB under Article 70(1)(t) GDPR to issue
binding  decisions  pursuant  to  Article  65  GDPR,  the  EDPB issues  the  following  binding  decision  in
accordance with Article 65(1)(a) GDPR:

 The EDPB decides that the objection of the PL SA which questions the level of the fine imposed by the
FR SA in its Draft Decision meets the requirements of Article 4(24) GDPR with regard to the claims of
the PL SA that the Draft Decision (i) is missing information on the relevant turnover for setting the
amount of the fine; (ii) in terms of proportionality of the fine, it should not grant a reduction of the
fine to ACCOR despite the losses it recorded during the Covid-19 pandemic; and (iii) proposes a fine
that does not meet the dissuasiveness requirement set out in Article 83(1) GDPR.

 In that respect the EDPB decides that (i) in its final decision the FR SA must take into account the
turnover of ACCOR of the preceding year namely of 2021; (ii) although the FR SA is not required to
verify the solvency of ACCOR, it should, in order to ensure proportionality of the fine, take into account
the  financial  situation  of  ACCOR  on  the  basis  of  the  relevant  turnover  figure  of  this  undertaking,
without considering this reduction of the turnover as a mitigating factor under Article 83(2)(k) GDPR;
and (iii) the fine does not fulfil the requirement of being dissuasive in accordance with Article 83(1)
GDPR and for this reason, instructs the FR SA to reassess the elements it relied upon to calculate the
amount of the fine in order to ensure it meets the criterion of dissuasiveness under Article 83(1) GDPR,
taking account, in particular, of the relevant turnover of ACCOR.

 The EDPB decides that the FR SA is not required to amend its Draft Decision on the basis of the part of
the objection on the principle of proportionality in relation to the gravity of the infringement (Article
83 (2)(a) GDPR), as it does not meet the requirements of Article 4(24) GDPR.

7 FINAL REMARKS

80.

81.

This binding decision is addressed to the FR SA and the CSAs. The FR SA shall adopt its final decision on
the basis of this binding decision pursuant to Article 65(6) GDPR.

Regarding the part of the objection deemed not to meet the requirements stipulated by Article 4(24)
GDPR, the EDPB does not take any position on the merit of any substantial issues raised therein. The
EDPB reiterates that its current decision is without prejudice to any assessments the EDPB may be
called upon to make in other cases, including with the same parties, taking into account the contents
of the relevant draft decision and the objections raised by the CSAs.

82.

According to Article 65(6) GDPR, the FR SA shall communicate its final decision to the Chair within one
month after receiving the binding decision.

83. Once such communication is done by the FR SA, the binding decision will be made public pursuant to

Article 65(5) GDPR.

84.

Pursuant to Article 70(1)(y) GDPR, the FR SA’s final decision communicated to the EDPB will be included
in the register of decisions which have been subject to the consistency mechanism.

adopted

20

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

adopted

21

