

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the security of personal data at a processor cooperating with energy suppliers (the company Call 4 U s.r.o.)



Based on the inspection plan for 2019, the Office conducted an inspection, the subject of which was the security of personal data at a processor cooperating with energy suppliers. The inspectors found that the inspected person follows the instructions of the administrator and is thus in the position of processor. The audited person searches for clients for energy suppliers (the company innogy Energie, s.r.o.) and concludes energy supply contracts with them on their behalf. It concludes contracts exclusively in paper form and then sends them to the energy supplier. The controlled person does not further process or collect personal data for any other purpose. The administrator issues identification cards for the employees of the processor, which they use to prove themselves when dealing with clients. For the processing of contracts in paper form, the handling of personal data obtained in this way and their security, the controlled person in relation to employees and other processors has adopted sufficient technical and organizational measures consisting, among other things, of employee training and the adoption of methodological guidelines. The Office did not detect a violation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 in connection with the processing of personal data in question. The inspection was conducted by inspector PhDr. Petr Krejci. Recommendation: The obligation to implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure an adequate level of security applies not only to administrators, but also to processors. More detailed information on the security of personal data is available on the website https://www.uoou.cz/8-zabezpeceni-osobnich-udaju/d-27282/p1=3938.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Sale of goods and services > Inspection of personal data security at processors cooperating with suppliers energy (the company Call 4 U s.r.o.)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



