 

 

Opinion 23/2018 on Commission proposals on European 

Production and Preservation Orders for electronic evidence 

in criminal matters (Art. 70.1.b) 

 

Adopted on 26 September 2018 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

Contents 
 

Introduction ............................................................................................................................................. 3 

1. 

Legal basis of the Regulation proposal (article 82 TFUE) ................................................................ 4 

2.  Necessity of e-Evidence compared to MLATs and EIO .................................................................... 5 

a) 

The necessity of e-Evidence compared to the safeguards provided by EIO and MLATs ............ 5 

b)  The abandonment of the dual criminality principle .................................................................... 6 

c) 

The consequence of addressing the companies directly ............................................................ 7 

3. 

The new ground for jurisdiction and the so-called disappearance of the location criteria ............ 8 

The notion “service providers” should be restricted or complemented by additional safeguards 

4. 
for the data subjects’ rights .................................................................................................................... 9 

The notions of “establishment” and of “legal representative” in the context of these proposals 

5. 
should be clearly distinguished from these notions in the context of the GDPR ................................. 10 

a) 

b) 

Establishment ............................................................................................................................ 10 

Legal representative .................................................................................................................. 11 

6.  New categories of data.................................................................................................................. 11 

7.  Analysis of the procedures for European Preservation and Protection Orders ............................ 13 

Thresholds for issuing orders should be raised and orders shall be issued or authorised by 

a) 
courts ................................................................................................................................................. 14 

b)  Time-limits to provide data should be justified ........................................................................ 15 

European Production and Preservation orders shall not be used to request data of another 

c) 
Member State data subject without at least informing the competent authorities of that Member 
State, in particular for content data .................................................................................................. 16 

d)  European preservation orders shall not be used to circumvent data retention obligations of 
the service providers ......................................................................................................................... 16 

e)  Confidentiality and user information ........................................................................................ 16 

f) 

g) 
 

Procedure for the enforcement of an order when the service provider refuses to execute it  17 

Enforcement of orders and conflicting obligations under third country laws (articles 15 – 16)
17 

h) 

Security of data transfers when responding to an order .......................................................... 19 

Conclusions ............................................................................................................................................ 20 

 

 

 

 

2 

 

  

 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 70 (1b) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, 
 
HAS ADOPTED FOLLOWING OPINION: 
 

Introduction 

 

In  April  2018,  the  Commission  presented  a  proposal  for  a  Regulation  on  European  Production  and 
Preservation Orders for electronic evidence in criminal matters and a proposal for a Directive laying 
down  harmonised  rules  on  the  appointment of  legal  representatives  for the  purposes  of  gathering 
evidence in criminal proceedings. The two proposals COM(2018) 225 final and COM(2018) 226 final 
are complementary. The overall goal pursued by the Commission is to improve cooperation between 
Member State authorities and services providers, including those based in non-EU countries, and to 
propose solutions to the problem of determining and enforcing jurisdiction in cyberspace.  

While the draft Regulation foresees the rules and procedures applicable to issue, serve and enforce 
preservation  and  production  orders  on  providers  of  electronic  communication  services,  the  draft 
Directive  provides  for  minimum  rules  for  the  appointment  of  a  legal  representative  for  service 
providers not established in the EU. 

In November 20171, before the Commission tabled any draft proposal, the Article 29 Working Party 
(WP29) recalled the necessity to ensure that any legislative proposal fully complies with the existing 
EU data protection acquis in particular, as well as EU law and case-law in general. 

In particular, the WP29 warned against limitations to the rights to data protection and privacy with 
respect to data processed by telecommunications and information society providers, especially when 
further processed by law enforcement authorities, recalled the necessity to ensure consistency of any 
EU instrument with the existing Council of Europe Budapest Convention on cybercrime and with the 
EU Directive on the European Investigation Order (EIO), and recommended to clarify the respective 
procedural  rules  governing  access  to  e-Evidence  at  national  and  EU  level  to  ensure  that  the  new 
instrument  would  not  grant  authorities  new  powers  they  would  not  have  internally.  In  addition to 
these general remarks, the WP29 commented on the legislative options considered by the Commission 
at that time concerning the categories of data concerned and the corresponding safeguards to access 
them, on the possibility to address production orders/requests to compel service providers to provide 
data located outside the EU, and on the substantive and procedural conditions necessary safeguards 
to surround direct access to data. 

With the concrete proposals on  e-Evidence  at  hand now,  the  EDPB wishes to give a more  detailed 
analysis of the proposed legal instruments from a data protection point of view. 
 
 
 

                                                           
1 See WP 29 statement (http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/just/document.cfm?doc_id=48801) 

3 

 

 

  

 

1.  Legal basis of the Regulation proposal (article 82 TFUE) 

 

The legal basis suggested for the e-Evidence draft Regulation is article 82(1) of the TFEU, concerning 
judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which provides: 

“1. Judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the Union shall be based on the principle of mutual 
recognition of judgments and judicial decisions and shall include the approximation of the laws and 
regulations of the Member States in the areas referred to in paragraph 2 and in Article 83. 

The European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative 
procedure, shall adopt measures to: 

(a) lay down rules and procedures for ensuring recognition throughout the Union of all forms 

of judgments and judicial decisions; 

(b) prevent and settle conflicts of jurisdiction between Member States; 

(c) support the training of the judiciary and judicial staff; 

(d) facilitate cooperation between judicial or equivalent authorities of the Member States in 

relation to proceedings in criminal matters and the enforcement of decisions.” 

As underlined by the Commission in the impact assessment accompanying the proposals, “Article 82(1) 
specifies  that  judicial  cooperation  in  criminal  matters  shall  be  based  on  the  principle  of  mutual 
recognition.  This  legal  basis  would  cover  possible  legislation  on  direct  cooperation  with  service 
providers, in which the authority in the issuing Member State would directly address an entity (the 
service provider) in the executing State and even impose obligations on it. This would introduce a new 
dimension in mutual recognition, beyond the traditional judicial cooperation in the Union, so far based 
on procedures involving two judicial authorities, one in the issuing State and another in the executing 
State.”(emphasis added) 

Given  the  novelty  of  the  use  of  this  legal  basis  in  the  context  of  direct  requests  between  public 
authorities and private parties, the EDPB regrets that no further analysis nor assessment is provided 
by the Commission. 

Indeed, as already underlined by the Working Party in its previous statement, the EDPB continues to 
stress its doubts on the appropriateness of this legal basis, which are supported by the analysis of the 
CJEU and its Advocate General in the Opinion 1/15. Among the developments made concerning the 
validity of Article 82 as a legal basis for the draft PNR agreement between the EU and Canada, the 
Court underlined that the Canadian Competent authority “does not constitute a judicial authority, nor 
does it constitute an equivalent authority”2. In the context of the e-Evidence proposals, one of the main 
goal  pursued  as  stated  by  the  Commission  appears  to  be  to  avoid  the  “too  cumbersome”  judicial 
cooperation. Consequently, the proposal is based on the principle that cooperation should take place 
between  an  authority  and  a  service  provider  rather  than  between  two  authorities.  The  procedure 
foreseen primarily places private entities in the position to be the receiving party and to answer the 
requests emanating from judicial authorities. 

The  EDPB  notes  that  the  process  of  enforcing  production  or  preservation  orders  could  imply  the 
involvement of a receiving authority in the situation where the receiving service  provider does  not 
comply with its obligations and will thus trigger the need to call for an ex-post enforcement of the 
order. However, as the main objective of the procedure set up is precisely not to involve a receiving 

                                                           
2 See point 103 of Opinion 1/15 and point 108 of the opinion of the advocate general in this case. 

 

4 

 

  

 

authority, the EDPB doubts that this ancillary procedure could justify the use of Article 82 as the sole 
legal basis for the instrument.   

Therefore, the EDPB takes the view that for Article 82 to be used as a legal basis the main procedural 
steps of the cooperation shall take place between two judicial authorities and that another legal basis 
should be used for this type of cooperation.  

 

2.  Necessity of e-Evidence compared to MLATs and EIO 

 

The  EDPB  notes  that  the  Commission  is  committed  to  review  obstacles  to  criminal  investigation, 
especially regarding the issue of access to electronic evidence. In its explanatory memorandum, the 
Commission gives the context of the proposal and stresses the volatile nature of electronic evidence, 
its international dimension as well as the need to adapt cooperation mechanism to the digital age. 
Proposals for a regulation and a directive for transferring and accessing electronic evidence are not 
aiming  to  replace  previous  cooperation  instruments  in  criminal  matters  such  as  the  Budapest 
Convention,  the  Mutual  Legal  Assistance Treaty  (MLAT)  and  the  European  Investigative  Order  (EIO 
directive). According to the Commission, e-Evidence proposals aim at improving judicial cooperation 
in criminal matters between authorities and service providers within the European Union as well as 
with third countries, the United States of America in particular.  

Since these new additional tools will be specifically dedicated to the access and transfer of electronic 
evidence, the EDPB will assess the added value of the instruments regarding the EIO directive and the 
MLAT.  

a)  The necessity of e-Evidence compared to the safeguards provided by 

EIO and MLATs 

The main argument raised by the Commission in favor of the e-Evidence proposals is to speed up the 
process  to  secure  and  obtain  electronic  evidence  that  is  stored  and/or  held  by  service  providers 
established in another jurisdiction.  

The  EDPB  however  deplores  that  the  necessity  to  have  a  new  instrument  to  organize  access  to 
electronic  evidence  was  not  demonstrated  in  the  impact  assessment.  Indeed,  the  proposals  lack  a 
demonstration that no other less intrusive means could have been used to achieve the goal of the e-
Evidence  proposal,  while  alternative  solutions  could  have  been  contemplated.  For  instance,  the 
possibility to modify and improve the EIO Directive could have been examined and would also have 
answered the specific requirement under the EIO Directive to evaluate the need to amend the text by 
21 May 20193. Another option could have been to foresee the use of preservation orders to freeze the 
data for as long as a formal request based on an MLAT were issued. These options would have allowed 
to maintain the safeguards provided in these instruments while ensuring that the personal data sought 
is not deleted.  

The EDPB notes that the time limits established in the EIO Directive are longer than in the e-Evidence 
proposal. Indeed, the executing authority has 30 days to take its decision on the recognition of the 
request4 and then should execute the order within 90 days5. The EDPB considers that allowing 30 days 

                                                           
3 See Art. 37 of the EIO Directive 
4 Art. 12 (3) EIO Directive 
5 Art 12 (4) EIO Directive 

 

5 

 

  

 

of reflection  for the executing authorities in the  EIO is a crucial safeguard enabling them to assess 
whether  the  request  for  execution  is  well  founded  and  respects  all  the  conditions  for  issuing  and 
transmitting an EIO6. 

The EDPB is concerned that the 10-day deadline put forward in the e-Evidence proposals to execute 
the European Production Order Certificate (EPOC), without any time for reflection, prevents the proper 
assessment of whether the EPOC meets all the criteria and is completed correctly.  

Therefore, the EDPB recommends that more time be provided for the EPOC recipient to determine 
whether the order should or should not be executed. 

The EDPB notes that in case of a European Preservation Order (EPOC-PR), there is no guaranty that the 
preservation  of  the  data  will  be  limited  to  what  is  necessary  to  produce.  Indeed,  the  duration  of 
preservation of the data may exceed 60 days since there is no time limit for the issuing authority to 
inform the addressee to refrain from issuing, or to withdraw a production order. Therefore, the EDPB 
recommends at least a time limit for the issuing authority to refrain or withdraw the production order 
in order to comply with the principle of data minimization established in the GDPR7.  

Finally, the EDPB notes that the EIO directive establishes the return of evidence from the issuing State 
to the executing authority8. However, the E-evidence Regulation proposal is silent regarding such a 
possibility. What happens to the electronic evidence after its transmission to the issuing authority is 
unclear.  

Therefore, the EDPB recommends that the Regulation proposal should provide more information on 
the use of electronic evidence after their transfer to the issuing authority in order to comply with the 
GDPR and the principle of transparency9 as well as the principle of specificity established by the MLATs.  

b)  The abandonment of the dual criminality principle 

The  EDPB  acknowledges  that  mutual  recognition  is  dependent  on  the  application  of  the  double 
criminality  which  is  a  way  for  Member  States  to  maintain  their  sovereignty.  However,  double 
criminality is increasingly considered as an obstacle to smooth judicial cooperation. EU Member States 
are more and more willing to cooperate even if the investigative measures relate to acts that are not 
considered  as  an  offence  in  their  national  law.  The  EDPB  however  recalls  that  the  dual  criminality 
principle aims at providing an additional safeguard to ensure that a State cannot rely on the assistance 
of another to apply a criminal sanction which does not exist in the law of another State. This would for 
instance prevent a State from requiring the help of another one to imprison someone for their political 
opinions if these opinions are not criminalized in the requested State or to prosecute someone for 
having aborted if this person is residing in another State where it is not illegal. The dual criminality 
principle is also often accompanied by additional limitations or safeguards concerning the sanctions if 
they  differ  too  much  between  the  requesting  and  the  executing  State.  The  main  example  is  the 
commitment not to apply the death penalty in certain MLATs when it does not exist in the law of one 
of the two parties. 

                                                           
6 Art. 6 EIO Directive 
7 Art. 5 (1) (c) GDPR. 
8 Art. 13 (3) and (4) EIO Directive. 
9 Art. 5(1) (a) GDPR. 

 

6 

 

  

 

The EDPB notes that the dual criminality principle is ruled out in the e-Evidence regulation proposal. 
However, it does not result only in the deletion of the usual formalities of mutual recognition but also 
in the deletion of safeguards linked to the dual criminality principle itself. 

Indeed,  the  EDPB  notes that  no  reference  is made  to  the  law  of  the  country where  the  requested 
service  provider  is  established,  and that  the  preservation  of  any  data, as well as  the  production of 
subscriber or access data, may be issued for all criminal offences10 regardless of whether there are 
similar criminal offences established in other Member States or not. 

Meanwhile, production orders may only be issued and executed if a similar measure is available for 
the same criminal offence in a comparable  domestic situation in the issuing State11.  In addition, as 
explained  by  the  Commission  in  the  explanatory  memorandum  of  the  regulation  proposal,  the 
specificity of transactional data and content data is established, as they are considered to be  more 
sensitive.  Indeed,  orders  concerning  transactional  or  content  data  are  based  on  a  threshold  of  a 
maximum custodial sentence of at least 3 years in order to ensure respect for proportionality and the 
rights of the persons affected12. However, the EDPB underlines that no harmonization within the EU 
has  taken  place  yet  of  criminal  offences  punished  by  a  maximum  of  at  least  3  years  of  custodial 
sentence.  

The EDPB opposes the abandonment of the dual criminality principle, which aims at ensuring that a 
State cannot rely on the help of others to have its national criminal law applied outside of the State’s 
territory by a State which does not share the same approach, especially given the disappearance of 
other traditional major safeguards in the field of criminal law (see below point 3 on the location criteria 
and point 7 (g) concerning potential conflicts with third countries’ laws). 

c)  The consequence of addressing the companies directly 

The EDPB acknowledges that electronic evidence is increasingly available on private infrastructure and 
may be located outside the investigating country, owned by service providers. 

The EDPB notes that following the  Yahoo!13  and Skype14  decisions in Belgium  and in  the context of 
terrorist attacks, there is a need for a smoother and faster cooperation between public and private 
entities. In the impact assessment, the Commission refers to three types of procedural instruments 
involving  both  public  authorities  and  service  providers.  These  are  judicial  cooperation,  direct 
cooperation and direct access. If the first one is not putting the responsibility on the service provider 
to execute the EIO but on the executing authority15, the second, direct cooperation, is based on the 
cooperation  of  the  service  provider.  The  most  intrusive  is  direct  access  from  a  service  provider’s 
perspective since public authorities are able to access data without the help of an intermediary.  

Therefore,  the  EDPB  fears  that,  when  addressed  directly,  service  providers  will  not  ensure  the 
protection of personal data as efficiently as public authorities are able and obliged to do and stresses 
that it also results in the inapplicability of certain procedural guarantees foreseen in the context of 

                                                           
10 Art. 5 (3) and Art. 6 (2) of the proposed Regulation on e-Evidence. 
11 Art. 5 (2) of the proposed Regulation on e-Evidence 
12 Art. 5 (4) (a) of the proposed Regulation on e-Evidence 
13 Hof van Cassatie of Belgium, YAHOO! Inc., No. P.13.2082.N of 1st December 2015. 
14 Correctionele Rechtbank van Antwerpen, afdeling Mechelen of Belgium, No. ME20.F1.105151-12 of 27 
October 2016. (Skype has appealed the decision). 
15 Art. 10 – 16.  

 

7 

 

  

 

judicial  cooperation  for  individuals,  as  well  as  for  companies  themselves16.  Indeed,  for  instance,  a 
requested service provider would have to go before the court of another (Member) State to contest 
the  order  while  in  the  context  of  judicial  cooperation  it  would  face  its  own  authorities.  The  EDPB 
recommends  the  inclusion  of  additional  grounds  in  the  Regulation  proposal  certifying  that  service 
providers will protect individual fundamental rights as the protection of personal data and the respect 
of private and family  life, as well as the information of the competent  data protection authority in 
order to make sure control is possible. 

 

3.  The  new  ground  for  jurisdiction  and  the  so-called  disappearance  of  the 

location criteria 

 

The  EDPB  notes  that  the  Commission  underlines  that  one  of  the  major  changes  brought  by  these 
proposals is the disappearance of the location criteria and the possibility for competent authorities to 
request the preservation and production of data regardless of where these data are actually stored. 

From a data protection perspective,  it is not new that EU data protection law applies regardless of 
where the data of persons concerned are stored. Indeed, the applicability of the GDPR depends either 
on  the  fact  that  the  controller  or  processor  is  established  within  the  EU,  or  on  whether  EU  data 
subjects’  data  are  processed,  even  when  the  controller  or  processor  are  not  established  on  the 
territory of the EU17, in which case they also have to designate a legal representative in the EU18. From 
the perspective of data protection it is important to note that the extended territorial scope aims at 
providing  a  more  complete  protection  to  EU  data  subjects,  regardless  of  where  the  company 
processing their data is established.  

Therefore, although the disappearance of the location criteria might be new in the field of criminal 
law, this does not appear as a major change from a data protection perspective. In addition, the EDPB 
also notes that a link is still maintained with the territory of the EU as only service providers offering 
services in the Union fall within the scope of the proposals, and the fact that requests can only be 
addressed in the context of criminal investigations imply a link with the EU (either because the crime 
was committed in the territory of a Member State or because the victim or the criminal was a citizen 
of a Member State). 

If the disappearance of the location criteria should now be applied in criminal law, the most important 
question for the EDPB concerns how to ensure that such a development is not detrimental to data 
protection and criminal procedural rights of the data subjects and the requested service providers. 
From that perspective, the EDPB acknowledges that within the EU, procedural safeguards have been, 
at least partially, harmonized and need to be provided in compliance with the European Convention 
of Human Rights. It can thus be argued that the disappearance of the location criteria would probably 
have more limited consequences when the evidence is sought within the EU compared to the reverse 
situation where authorities from third countries request data to companies established within the EU 
under  the  same  conditions  as  set  out  in  the  e-Evidence  draft  Regulation.  Indeed,  the  EDPB  is 
particularly concerned this could result in more problematic situations. In this context, authorities from 
                                                           
16  See  also  from  an  international  data  protection  perspective  the  "Working  paper  on  Standards  for  data 
protection  and  personal  privacy  in  cross-border  data  requests  for  criminal  law  enforcement  purposes",  The 
International  Working  Group  on  Data  Protection  in  Telecommunications,  63rd  meeting,  9-10  April  2018, 
Budapest (Hungary). 
17 See Art. 3, in particular (2). 
18 See Art. 27 

8 

 

 

  

 

a third country where different and potentially less procedural safeguards apply in the field of criminal 
law could have access to data that would be protected by additional safeguards within the EU. From 
that  perspective,  the  EDPB  recalls  its  concerns  about  a  double  standard  and  a  weakening  of 
fundamental  rights  when  service  providers  and  data  subjects  do  not  benefit  from  the  procedural  
safeguards in EU law  if the request is made from a third country authority. 

Furthermore, as this new ground of jurisdiction “regardless of the location of the data” is coupled with 
a procedure mainly relying on direct requests from competent authorities to service providers, the 
EDPB is concerned that data protection safeguards may not be applied by private companies receiving 
requests and which are not bound by a legal instrument such as an MLAT, traditionally governing the 
exchanges  of  data  between  judicial  authorities  and  providing  for  safeguards.  In  particular,  in  the 
context of MLATs, minimum data protection safeguards imply for instance confidentiality obligations 
and the principle of specificity which implies that data will not be processed for another purpose. 

At least, the EDPB therefore recalls that the safeguards provided in Directive 2016/680 should be made 
applicable,  including  with  regards  to  data  transfers,  and  especially  Article  39  in  case  the  service 
provider  would  be  established  in  a  third  country  without  an  adequacy  decision  in  this  field.  In 
particular, the EDPB stresses that this provision implies notably the information of the competent data 
protection  authority  in  the  Member  State  of  the  issuing  authority  of  the  order(s)  and  the 
documentation  of  the  transfer, 
justification  concerning  the 
ineffectiveness or inappropriateness of a transfer to the competent authority of the third country. 

including  with  regards  to  the 

 

4.  The  notion  “service  providers”  should  be  restricted  or 
complemented  by  additional  safeguards  for  the  data  subjects’ 
rights 

 

As  regards  service  providers,  the  EDPB welcomes  the  wide  definition  which  allows  to  include  both 
communication  services  and  Over-The-Top  (OTT)  services,  since  all  these  services  are  functionally 
equivalent and therefore the foreseen measures could have a similar impact on the right to privacy 
and the right to secrecy of communications, as underlined in the statement of the WP29 and previously 
in Opinion 01/2017 on the Proposed Regulation for the ePrivacy Regulation. Indeed, the proposal for 
a  Regulation  on  electronic  evidence  covers  service  providers  providing  either  electronic 
communications services as defined in Article 2(4) of Directive establishing the European Electronic 
Communications Code, information society services as defined in point (b) of Article 1(1) of Directive 
(EU) 2015/1535, “for which the storage of data is a defining component of the service provided to the 
user, including social networks, online marketplaces facilitating transactions between their users, and 
other  hosting  service  providers”,  or  internet  domain  name  and  IP  numbering  services  “such  as  IP 
providers domain name registries, domain name registrars and related privacy and proxy services”19. 

However, a service provider in the sense of the draft Regulation being “any natural or legal person that 
provides  one  or  more  of  the  following  categories  of  services”,  the  EDPB  is  concerned  that  this 
instrument could cover both controllers and processors in the sense of the GDPR. Indeed, as “offering 
services”  as  defined  in  Article  2  (4)  of  the  draft  Regulation  includes  both  enabling  legal  or  natural 
persons in one or more Member State(s) to use the services listed, and having a substantial connection 

                                                           
19 Article 2 (3) (c) of the proposed Regulation on e-Evidence 

 

9 

 

  

 

to the Member State(s) in question, these activities include activities performed by a processor for a 
controller, such as storing data, for instance.  

Hence, the EDPB fears that without limitations to service providers acting as controllers in the sense 
of the GDPR, and without any specific obligation of the processor to notify the data controller, when 
addressed with a production or preservation order, data subjects’ rights might be circumvented. This 
is especially the case since in the context of possible conflicting obligations preventing the addressee 
to serve the orders received, the judicial authorities are also encouraged in the draft Regulation itself 
to address the most appropriate actor regardless of the data protection rules applicable, in particular 
given that any data could be requested, and not only personal data subject to the GDPR20. 

According to the GDPR, a processor only acts on the instructions given by the controller. Therefore, it 
is the responsibility of the controller to ensure the rights of data subjects are respected, and to provide 
them with the relevant information, including with regards to recipients of their data, for instance in 
the context of the exercise of their right of access. The processor will not receive these requests from 
data subjects and will not be in a position to answer, unless expressly asked by the controller.  

Consequently, unless their rights have been limited in application of the GDPR, the EDPB stresses that 
data subjects benefitting from the application of the GDPR may not be able to exercise their rights 
efficiently if the controller is not in a position to provide complete information. The EDPB also notes 
that the likelihood of the absence of information is even higher without any specific obligation imposed 
on the processor to inform the controller when the data requested concern data subjects who do not 
benefit from the protection granted by the GDPR. Indeed, the judicial authorities requesting the data 
will not necessarily have the obligation to inform the data subjects of their own further processing in 
this case. The EDPB therefore calls on the restriction of the scope to controllers in the sense of the 
GDPR, or on the  introduction  of a provision clarifying that in the  event where  the  service  provider 
addressed is not the controller of the data, it shall inform the controller. 

 

5.  The notions of “establishment” and of “legal representative” in 
the  context  of  these  proposals  should  be  clearly  distinguished 
from these notions in the context of the GDPR 

 

Given the inapplicability of the location criteria with regards to data, the addressees of production and 
preservation  orders  within  the  scope  of  the  proposed  Regulation  are  limited  to  service  providers 
offering services in the Union, whether established within the EU or  not, with the obligation to appoint 
a  legal  representative,  according  to  the  rules  proposed  in  the  draft  Directive.  These  notions  of 
“establishment” and “legal representative” are therefore defined in the draft instruments. 

The EDPB notes that these notions also appear in the context of other EU instruments, and in particular 
in the context of the GDPR. Consequently, clarifications as to the definition and delineation between 
these notions in the context of the draft proposals and in the context of the GDPR should be provided. 

a)  Establishment 

The EDPB also recalls that the notion of “establishment” in the context of the draft Regulation shall 
not  be  confused  with  the  notion  in  the  context  of  the  GDPR.  Indeed,  for  the  purpose  of  the  draft 

                                                           
20 See Article 7 (3) and (4) 

 

10 

 

  

 

Regulation, the notion of establishment as defined in Article 2 (5) is broader than in the GDPR as it 
includes “either the actual pursuit of an economic activity for an indefinite period through any stable 
infrastructure from where the business of providing services is carried or a stable infrastructure from 
where the business is managed”, whether or not processing of personal data takes place in the context 
of  the  activities  of  this  establishment.  Thus,  if  “establishment”  in  the  sense  of  the  GDPR  was  to 
undoubtedly be included in the establishment defined in the draft Regulation, the contrary might not 
be the case.  

The EDPB therefore warns that establishments of service providers in the sense of the draft Regulation 
might not necessarily imply that the conditions for the application of the GDPR according to Article 
3(1)  are  met.  In  this  context,  controllers  and  processors  are  therefore  invited  to  check  if  the 
applicability of the GDPR does not derive from Article 3(2) which would imply the designation of a legal 
representative within the EU and the absence of One-Stop-Shop mechanism. 

b)  Legal representative 

In its statement, the WP29 stressed that any confusion should be avoided between the obligation to 
designate a legal representative under Article 27 of the GDPR and the legal representative foreseen 
under the draft Regulation on e-Evidence. 

With  the  draft  proposal  at  hand,  the  EDPB  would  like  to  recall  these  recommendations,  and  in 
particular to underline that in its understanding, the legal representative in the meaning of the draft 
Directive on the appointment of a legal representative in the context of the e-Evidence proposals shall 
be designated in any case, be vested with specific functions, independently of a mandate given by the 
service provider, have the power to answer requests and to act on behalf of the service provider and 
a stronger liability than the legal representative of the GDPR.  

Furthermore,  the  EDPB  stresses  that  the obligation to  designate  a  legal  representative  in  any  case 
under the e-Evidence draft proposals, whether the service provider is established in the EU or not, the 
possibility to designate even several legal representatives for the same service provider under the e-
Evidence draft Directive, and the obligation to notify the designation of the legal representative to the 
Member States’ authorities differ from the GDPR, which does not provide for such obligation to notify 
the designated legal representative, exemptions to the designation and limited responsibilities of the 
legal representative. 

Therefore, given the important differences in terms of role, liability and relationship with the other 
establishments of the service provider in one case and controller or processor in the other, the EDPB 
recommends that, where a service provider is not established within the EU, but is subject to both the 
GDPR  pursuant  to  article  3  (2)  and to  the  e-Evidence  Regulation,  two  distinct legal  representatives 
should be designated, each with clear distinct functions according to the instrument on the basis of 
which it is designated. 

 

6.  New categories of data  

 

The proposed regulation defines different categories of data as per article 2: subscriber data, access 
data, transactional data and content data. Recital 20 of the Commission proposal further specifies that 
“The categories of data this Regulation covers include subscriber data, access data, transactional data 
(these three categories being referred to as ‘non-content data’) and content data. This distinction, apart 
from the access data, exists in the legal laws of many Member States and also in the current US legal 

 

11 

 

  

 

framework  that  allows  service  providers  to  share  non-content  data  with  foreign  law  enforcement 
authorities on a voluntary basis.” 

In  this  context,  the  EDPB  stresses  first  of  all  that  all  four  categories  of  data  cited  above  are  to  be 
considered as personal data according to EU data protection law since they do contain information 
related  to  an  identified  or  identifiable  natural  person,  whether  the  data  subject  is  referred  to  as 
“subscriber” or “user” in the proposed regulation.  Similarly, it is to be noted that “electronic evidence” 
as defined in Article 2(6) of the Commission’s proposal encompasses all four categories of data and 
therefore relates to personal data. Therefore rather than laying down the rules for access to evidence, 
defined and qualified as per national law and judicial procedures, the proposed regulation provides for 
new substantive and procedural conditions related to the access to personal data.  

While  the  proposed  regulation  establishes  new  subcategories  of  personal  data  for  which  different 
procedural conditions of access apply, the EDPB recalls that, in accordance with the relevant CJEU case 
law, to establish the existence of an interference with the fundamental right to privacy, it does not 
matter whether the information on the private lives concerned is sensitive or whether the persons 
concerned have been inconvenienced in any way. 

Furthermore, the EDPB recalls that in relation to “non-content data” which encompass subscriber data, 
access  data  and  transactional  data  as  per  the  Commission  proposal,  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the 
European Union has ruled in its judgement in joined cases C-203/15 and C-698/15 Tele2 Sverige AB 
that metadata such as traffic data and location data provides the means of establishing a profile of the 
individuals concerned, information that is no less sensitive, having regard to the right to privacy, than 
the actual content of communications21. 

As already stated in the WP29 statement on Data protection and privacy aspects of cross-border 
access to electronic evidence of 29th November 2017, the EDPB therefore reiterates its doubts and 
concerns with regards to the current delineation between “non-content” and content data, as well as 
to the four categories of personal data laid down by the proposed regulation. Indeed, the four 
categories proposed do not appear to be clearly delineated, and the definition of “access data” still 
remains vague, compared to the other categories. The EDPB therefore regrets that the Commission’s 
impact assessment and proposal did not further substantiate the rationale for the creation of these 
new subcategories of personal data, and expresses its concerns with regards to the different level of 
guaranties related to the substantive and procedural conditions for access to the categories of 
personal data, especially given the practical difficulty to evaluate to which category of data will 
belong the requested data in some cases. For instance IP addresses could both be classed as 
transactional data and subscriber data.  

In this context, the EDPB also recalls that in recital 14 of its proposal for a Regulation concerning the 
respect for private life and the protection of personal data in electronic communications (ePrivacy), 
the Commission considers that “electronic communications data should be  defined in a sufficiently 
broad  and  technology  neutral  way  so  as  to  encompass  any  information  concerning  the  content 
transmitted  or  exchanged  (electronic  communications  content)  and  the  information  concerning  an 
end-user  of  electronic  communications  services  processed  for  the  purposes  of  transmitting, 
distributing or enabling the exchange of electronic communications content; including data to trace 
and identify the source and destination of a communication, geographical location and the date, time, 
duration and the type of communication”. Since the current and future ePrivacy framework, as well as 
the related limitations to the right to privacy, will apply to the rules regulating law enforcement access 

                                                           
21 CJEU Judgment of 21 December 2016, paragraph 99. 

 

12 

 

  

 

to electronic evidence, the EDPB recommends that a broader definition of electronic communication 
data is included in the proposed regulation, in order to ensure that the appropriate safeguards and 
conditions for access to be established cover consistently both ‘non-content’ and ‘content data’. 

 

7.  Analysis  of  the  procedures  for  European  Preservation  and 

Protection Orders 

 

Broadly speaking, the procedure for addressing a production or preservation order appears to be the 
following: 

-  The  competent  judicial  authority  –  the  issuing  authority  –  depending  on  the  type  of  data 
requested  and  on  the  type  of  order,  issues  the  order  according  to  the  (scarce)  conditions 
enumerated  in  articles  5  and  6,  sends  it  by  using  a  harmonized  certificate  to  the  legal 
representative  of  the  service  provider  or  to  any  of  its  establishment  within  the  EU  –  the 
addressee. 

- 

-  Upon receipt of the certificate, the addressee shall execute the order – meaning transmit the 
data within 10 days or 6 hours in case of emergency, or preserve them up to 60 days – unless 
it is impossible do so, because the certificate is incomplete or because of force majeure or de 
facto  impossibility  for  the  addressee,  or  because  the  addressee  refuses  on  the  ground  of 
conflicting obligations, either with regard to fundamental rights or fundamental interests of a 
third country or based on other grounds. 
In case  the  addressee  has not  complied with the order received without  providing reasons 
accepted  by  the  issuing  authority,  procedures  are  foreseen  to  enforce  the  orders  by  a 
competent enforcing authority in the Member State where the service provider is represented 
or established, unless limited grounds for refusal apply and the enforcing authority objects to 
the recognition or enforcement of the order. 
In  case  the  addressee  issued  a  reasoned  objection  to  the  order  based  on  conflicting 
obligations, the issuing authority shall refer the case to the competent court in its Member 
State, which shall then be in charge of assessing the possible conflict and of upholding the 
order in the absence of a conflict. In the event of a conflict, the competent Court shall, either 
address the central authorities in the third country, via its national central authorities, with a 
15 day deadline to respond, which can be extended by 30 days upon reasoned request, in case 
of conflicting obligations with regards to fundamental rights or fundamental interests of a third 
country, or determine itself whether to uphold or withdraw the order for other grounds of 
refusal invoked by the addressee. 

- 

-  Without prejudice to remedies available under the GDPR and the LED, persons whose data 
was obtained via a production order shall also have the right to effective remedies against this 
order. 

The EDPB assessed the procedures foreseen and the safeguards provided in the draft Regulation to 
surround  the  different  steps  and  on  each  of  the  aspects  presented  here-after  recommends  the 
following safeguards and amendments. 

 

 

 

13 

 

  

 

a)  Thresholds for issuing orders should be raised and orders shall be issued 

or authorised by courts 

As regards the conditions for issuing orders, the EDPB welcomes the principle of higher safeguards to 
access transactional or content data. However, it notes that given the absence of full harmonisation of 
criminal  sanctions  between  Member  States,  the  reference  to  “criminal  offences  punishable  in  the 
issuing  State  by  a  custodial  sentence  of  a  maximum  of  at  least  3  years”22  still  implies  diverging 
thresholds and discrepancies in the protection of their data for data subjects within the EU. 

Furthermore,  the  EDPB  stresses  that,  especially  given  the  broad  definition  of  subscriber  data,  the 
threshold provided appears rather low for preservation orders and for production orders concerning 
subscriber or access data, as all criminal offences can in principle justify the issuance of such orders. 
Similarly, the authorities allowed to issue such orders are more limited in the context of production 
orders  concerning  transactional  or  content  data,  than  for  the  issuance  of  preservation  orders  or 
production orders to produce subscriber or access data, as prosecutors can issue or authorise only the 
latter orders, while any judge, court or investigating judge can issue or authorise any order. 

In  particular,  the  EDPB  regrets  that  the  lowest  threshold  providing  for  the  possibility  for  law 
enforcement authorities to request access to subscriber and access data for any criminal offence builds 
on an “a contrario” reading of the case law of the CJEU (which focuses on the other data) to make 
distinctions as the safeguards to be afforded. Indeed, the CJEU specifically underlined that for traffic 
and  location  data,  access of  the  competent  authorities  shall  be  restricted  solely  to  fighting  serious 
crime23.  The  EDPB  could  understand  that  the  proposal  would  provide  for  the  possibility to  request 
access to very basic information which would just allow  to identify a person without  revealing any 
communication data without a prior authorisation from a court. However, it deplores the broad “a 
contrario” reading of this ruling by the Commission and calls for higher safeguards to be introduced in 
order to restrict the grounds for access to other subscriber data and to access data. The EDPB suggests 
to restrict access to these data either to a list of crimes provided in the draft Regulation, or at least to 
“serious criminal offences”, especially given the lower prior authorisation threshold foreseen for these 
data.  

In addition, the EDPB underlines that this “a contrario” reading also leads to the fact that the proposal 
opens the possibility for prosecutors to issue or authorise the issuance of orders. The EDPB is of the 
opinion that, except in case of requests concerning very basic information which would just allow to 
identify a person without revealing any communication data, this constitutes a step back compared to 
the case law of the CJEU concerning access to communications data. Indeed, in its case law concerning 
access to communications data for law enforcement purposes, the CJEU has restricted the possibility 
to provide for such access, among other criteria, and “except in cases of validly established urgency”24, 
to  a  “prior  review  carried  out  by  a  court  or  an  independent  administrative  authority”,  “following  a 
reasoned request of competent national authorities submitted within the framework of procedures of 
prevention, detection or criminal prosecution.” 25 

The EDPB recalls that the notion of “court” is an autonomous notion of EU law, and that the CJEU has 
constantly underlined and recalled the criteria to be fulfilled to qualify as a court, including the criteria 

                                                           
22 See Art. 5 (3) (a) 
23 See case 203/15 – Par (125) 
24 See case 203/15 – par (120) 
25 See joint cases C 293/12 and C 594/12 - par (62)  

 

14 

 

  

 

of independence26 which does not appear to be the case for prosecutors, as recalled also by the ECtHR 
in its case law27 .  

Consequently, articles 4 (1) (a) and (b) and 3(a) and (b) result in procedures where significantly less 
safeguards will apply for subscriber and access data since a prosecutor alone will be able to request 
data, without neither any further control from the authority of the State where the requested data are 
or from the authority where the legal representative of the requested company will be, nor any control 
from an independent administrative authority. 

Furthermore, the EDPB notes the so-called additional safeguard provided in Article 5 (2) which limits 
the possibility to issue a production order when a similar measure was available for the same criminal 
offence in a comparable domestic situation. However, it warns against the counterproductive effect 
of such a provision: rather than providing additional safeguards it appears as an encouragement for 
Member States to extend their national possibilities to ask for the production of subscriber or access 
data in order to ensure production orders could be issued under this Regulation. 

b)  Time-limits to provide data should be justified  

The EDPB notes that European Production orders shall be answered within 10 days at the latest upon 
receipt of the certificate, unless the issuing authority indicates reasons for earlier disclosure, and at 
the latest within 6 hours in emergency cases, as provided in Article 9 (1) and (2). 

However, the EDPB has not seen any criteria framing the obligation for authorities to demonstrate the 
emergency to produce data, even ex post in order to allow for a possible control of the use of this very 
fast procedure, while a six hour deadline is likely to imply a very light control before producing the 
data,  if  not  the  absence  of  any  control  on  the  part  of  the  service  provider.  Indeed,  the  impact 
assessment stresses the necessity for competent authorities to have access to data in a timely manner. 
However, the examples given in the impact assessment all concern evidence needed in case of serious 
crimes being committed (terrorism cases with hostages, ongoing child sexual abuse situations), but the 
justification based on the volatility of evidence does not appear to be a good one when there is no 
specific urgency other than this potential volatility of the data. In addition, the volatility of data does 
not  provide  any  additional  justification  as  to  the  proportionality  to  have  access  to  data  with  less 
safeguards in these situations where there is no urgency other than the volatility of data. 

In addition, the EDPB doubts the necessity to provide for a six hours deadline while providing that this 
deadline would not apply until the issuing authority provides additional clarifications “within five days” 
in case the service provider cannot comply with its obligation.  

The EDPB therefore calls for additional elements in the impact assessment to justify the necessity of 
these deadlines in cases where the crime being committed or prosecuted is not serious, and unless 
such detailed elements are provided, for explicit criteria to justify the emergency in case EPOCs are 
issued.  For  instance,  the  same  model  as  in  the  EIO  Directive  could  be  foreseen.  The  EIO  Directive 
provides for a shorter deadline when justified by "procedural deadlines, the seriousness of the offence 
or other particularly urgent circumstances" (see Art. 12 (2)), or for a 24-hour deadline to decide on 
provisional measures (see Art. 32 (2)). Indeed the impact assessment of the draft Regulation does not 
provide  for  detailed  elements  to  justify  why  these  deadlines  are  not  efficient,  the  only  elements 
underlined being that the number of requests sent overload the receiving judicial authorities which 
cannot respect the deadlines. 

                                                           
26 See for instance case C 203/14  
27 See for instance Moulin c/ France 23/11/2010 

 

15 

 

  

 

c)  European  Production  and  Preservation  orders  shall  not  be  used  to 
request  data  of  another  Member  State data  subject  without  at  least 
informing  the  competent  authorities  of  that  Member  State,  in 
particular for content data 

The EDPB recalls that in existing instruments judicial cooperation and thus additional safeguards, are 
provided, in particular to control the necessity and proportionality of requests,  and underlines that 
these  safeguards  are  all  the  more  justified  in  cases  where  requested  data  are  content  data  which 
involve  more  limitations  of  the  rights  of  data  subjects  to  have  their  personal  data  and  privacy 
protected. In this regard, the EDPB recalls that the EIO Directive also provides for the possibility to 
intercept telecommunication with the technical assistance of another Member State (see Art. 30), as 
well as for the  obligation to notify any interception of data to the competent authority of another 
Member State where no assistance is needed when the data subject concerned is or will be on the 
territory of that Member State (see Art. 31).  

The EDPB finds no justification for the procedure foreseen in the draft e-Evidence Regulation to allow 
for the production of content data without any involvement at least of the competent authorities of 
the Member State where the data subject is. 

d)  European  preservation  orders  shall  not  be  used  to  circumvent  data 

retention obligations of the service providers 

The  EDPB  notes  that  the main  aim of  European Preservation Orders  is to  prevent  data  from  being 
erased.  

Although the EDPB recognizes that it may be necessary and proportionate in some cases, it deplores 
the lack of safeguards surrounding the issuance of such orders. In particular, the EDPB recommends 
that when preservation orders are addressed for specific data only, where the draft seems to allow for 
broad requests, and that when such orders are issued for data scheduled to be erased in compliance 
with the  data  retention  principle,  the order  shall  never  serve  as  a  basis  for  the  service  provider  to 
process the data after the initial date of erasure. In other words, data should be “frozen”.  

In addition, the link between the preservation order and the subsequent request for the production of 
data, be it through a European Production order, an EIO request or a mutual legal assistance request, 
should be strengthened, in order to ensure that European Preservation orders are issued only when 
the  other  request  is  certain  (and  not  just  contemplated  as  a  possibility),  and  that  when  the  other 
request  is  refused,  the  preservation  order  also  expires,  without  having  to  wait  for  60  days28  if  the 
subsequent request is refused earlier.  

e)  Confidentiality and user information 

The EDPB notes that a specific Article29 concerning the confidentiality of orders addressed has been 
introduced in the draft Regulation. In order to avoid any confusion and misunderstanding with the 
right to data protection, the EDPB recalls that although the GDPR provides that limitations to the rights 
of  data  subjects  to  safeguard  the  prevention,  investigation,  detection  or  prosecution  of  criminal 
penalties,  should  be  provided  by  law  and  therefore  publicly  accessible30  and  that  these  legislative 

                                                           
28 See Art. 10 (1) 
29 See Art. 11 
30 See Art. 23 (1) (d) 

 

16 

 

  

 

measures shall contain specific provisions as to the right of data subjects to be informed about the 
restriction, unless that may be prejudicial to the purpose of the restriction31, it does not provide for 
the obligation to inform individually data subjects of each access request made by law enforcement 
authorities.  

However, in the meantime, the EDPB recalls that the Data protection directive provides for this right 
of information for the data subjects from the competent authorities themselves, unless this right has 
been limited, to any data subject without limiting this right only to data subjects residing in the territory 
of the EU. 

f)  Procedure for the enforcement of an order when the service provider 

refuses to execute it 

The  EDPB  notes  that  Article  14  of  the  draft  Regulation  provides  for  a  procedure  to  ensure  the 
enforcement of an order when the addressee does not comply with it, relying on a judicial cooperation 
between the issuing authority and a competent authority in the enforcing State. 

However, it appears that this procedure does not allow the enforcing authority to refuse to enforce 
the  order  transmitted  on  other  grounds  than  purely  procedural  ones  (the  same  as  the  addressee, 
mainly concerning the lack of information provided or the factual impossibility to provide the data), 
because the data concerned is protected by an immunity or privilege under its national law or because 
its disclosure may impact its fundamental interests such as national security and defence32.  

 The EDPB therefore reiterates its concerns as regards the removal of any double check by the receiving 
competent authority of the order transmitted, compared to the other instruments. Even the ground 
to refuse to enforce an order on the ground that it would violate the Charter appears higher than the 
classic threshold relating to a breach of the fundamental rights of the person concerned. Consequently, 
following  the  examples  of  the  European  Arrest  Warrant,  which  provides  for  mandatory  as  well  as 
optional  grounds  of  refusal,  or  at  least  of  the  EIO  Directive,  which  generally  provides  that  the 
presumption according to which “the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice within the 
Union is based on mutual confidence and a presumption of compliance by other Member States with 
Union law and, in particular, with fundamental rights” is rebuttable33, the draft Regulation should at 
least foresee the minimum classic derogation that if there are substantial grounds for believing that 
the enforcement of an Order would result in a breach of a fundamental right of the person concerned 
and that the executing State would disregard its obligations concerning the protection of fundamental 
rights recognised in the Charter, the enforcement of the order should be refused.  

g)  Enforcement  of  orders  and  conflicting  obligations  under  third  country 

laws (articles 15 – 16) 

The EDPB welcomes the possibility provided in the draft Regulation for addressees to refuse an order 
on the ground that it would conflict with fundamental rights as it is aimed at providing safeguards in 
case  of  conflicting  legal  obligations.  It  also  deems  essential  that  the  proposal  provides  for  the 
consultation of third-countries authorities, at least where a conflict arises, as well as the obligation to 
lift the order when a third-country’s authority raises an objection.  

                                                           
31 See Art. 23 (2) (h) 
32 See Art. 14 (2) 
33 See recital 19 of the EIO Directive 

 

17 

 

  

 

Therefore,  the  procedure  foreseen  to  refuse  to  execute  an  order  on  the  ground  of  conflicting 
obligations under third country laws should be considerably improved.  

First,  the  EDPB  notes  that  the  draft  Regulation  entrusts  a  private  company,  as  addressee  of  a 
production order, to assess whether or not that order would be in conflict with applicable laws of a 
third country prohibiting the disclosure of the data requested. The company has to provide a reasoned 
objection including all relevant details of the law of the third country, its applicability to the case at 
hand and the nature of the conflicting obligations. 

Most importantly, the EDPB is concerned that when such an objection is raised, the competent court 
of the Member State of the issuing authority alone assesses whether a conflict exists or not, since it is 
only when the court finds a conflict that it shall get in contact with the third country authorities. The 
competent EU court is therefore granted the competence to conclusively interpret the law of a third 
country in this context, without being that much of a specialist on the substance. The EDPB considers 
that the obligation to consult the competent authorities of the third country is therefore too limited in 
the current proposal. In the field of data protection, the EDPB draws the attention of the legislator to 
the fact that in case a competent court of a third country would interpret the GDPR to assess whether 
it is conflicting with its own requirements, the data protection authorities of the EU and the competent 
courts would remain competent to assess the legality of the transfer based on a judgment of a court 
or tribunal or on a decision of an administrative authority of a third country requiring a transfer or 
disclosure of personal data within the scope of the GDPR34. 

In addition, the EDPB underlines that the assessment of the law of the third country by the competent 
court of the EU requesting State needs to be based on objective elements, and is concerned by the 
criteria to be taken into account by the competent court when assessing the law of the third country 
under Article 15 (4) and 16 (5) (a) of the draft Regulation. Indeed, the Court would have to assess the 
fact that, “rather than being intended to protect fundamental rights or fundamental interests of the 
third country related to national security or defence”, the law of the third country “manifestly seeks 
to protect other interests or is being aimed to shield illegal activities from law enforcement requests 
in the context of criminal investigations” or “the interest protected by the relevant law of the third 
country, including the third country’s interest in preventing disclosure of data”. For example, although 
in  principle  this  assessment  should  require  an  evidence-based  assessment  in  view  of  all  available 
information given the  potential impact  of such a decision, at the  very least,  the  wording ("is  being 
aimed to") appears unclear and should be adapted ("has the aim/objective to").  

The EDPB regrets that the only case where the authorities of a third country would be consulted and 
could object to the execution of a production order, would be where this competent EU court would 
consider that there is a relevant conflict, transmit all the elements to the central authorities in the third 
country  concerned  and  the  central  authority  of  that  third  country  would  object  within  the  tight 
deadlines  of  maximum  50  days  (15  days,  possibly  extended  by  30  days,  and  after  a  last  possible 
reminder giving 5 additional days). In all other cases, the competent court would be in a position to 
uphold the production order and issue a pecuniary sanction of the service provider refusing to execute 
the order. Consequently, the EDPB is concerned that the competent EU courts will not have a wider 
obligation to consult the competent authorities of the concerned third countries in order to ensure 
that the procedure will more systematically ensure that the arguments of both sides will be taken into 
consideration and to show even more respect for the laws of third countries.  

                                                           
34 See Art. 48 GDPR 

 

18 

 

  

 

As already underlined in the statement of WP29 and above, the EDPB recalls that particular attention 
should be paid to the adoption by third countries of similar instruments potentially affecting the rights 
of data subjects and their right to privacy within the EU, especially the risk of similar instruments that 
would enter in direct conflict with EU data protection law. 

In addition, the EDPB underlines that the competent court of the Member State of the issuing authority 
may  not  even  be  the  competent  court  to  enforce  the  order  foreseen  under  Article 14 of the  draft 
Regulation,  which  would  even  increase  the  risk  of  conflicting  procedures  and  the  lack  of  counter-
checks in a situation of conflicting laws. This comes from the fact that in some cases, three states could 
be involved: the one of the authority issuing the order, the third country of the service provider, and 
the Member State where the legal representative of the service provider in the EU is, and where the 
order would have to be enforced. Consequently, following the procedure currently foreseen, the court 
of the requesting authority in Member State A could  make its own interpretation of the law of the 
third  country  B  of  the  service  provider  without  requiring  the  views  of  the  authorities  of  this  third 
country (while they would have objected to the order), and ask a court of another EU Member State C 
to enforce its decision without any possibility to object. 

Besides, the EDPB also welcomes the introduction of specific remedies against production orders, in 
addition  to  remedies  provided  for  in  the  GDPR  and  in  the  LED.  The  WP29  already  called  for  such 
safeguards in its previous statement. However, the EDPB deplores that such remedies  are  not  also 
foreseen against preservation orders, as these orders may also result in limitations of the fundamental 
rights of the individuals whose data are retained. Indeed, preservation orders may have the effect of 
retaining data for longer than they would have according to the data protection rules. Therefore, in 
itself, the preservation order results in a limitation of the fundamental rights of the concerned data 
subject, whose justification shall be subject to a review and to specific remedies, especially in cases 
where the preservation order will have been issued along with a production order to get the data. As 
recommended by the WP 29 in its statement, legal remedies, at least equivalent to those available in 
a domestic case should be foreseen. 

h)  Security of data transfers when responding to an order 

The EDPB notes that the draft Regulation only provides for orders to be addressed to recipients within 
the European Union, and therefore does not provide for any specific channel for the transfer of data 
between the addressees and service providers located outside of the European Union.  

Although the EDPB welcomes the absence of further derogations to the general framework of the EU 
for data protection, it recalls that any order sent to an addressee which would then imply a transfer 
outside  the  EU  would  need  to  respect  the  legal  framework  provided  by  the  GDPR.  Indeed, 
circumventing  the  legal  framework  of  judicial  cooperation,  which  provides  for  data  protection 
safeguards  to  be  respected,  should  not  result  as  well  in  the  circumvention  of  data  transfer 
requirements by addressees of production or preservation orders to comply with such orders. 

In  addition,  while  the  EDPB  welcomes  the  absence  of  provision  imposing  an  obligation  to  decrypt 
encrypted data35, it is concerned that the draft proposals do not foresee any specific requirement for 
addressees to assess the authenticity of data produced and underlines that this assessment is also an 
added value of traditional instruments relying on judicial cooperation and warns against the increased 
risks posed for data subjects concerned in the absence of such an assessment. 

 

                                                           
35 See recital 19 and page 240 of the impact assessment 

 

19 

 

  

 

Conclusions 
Based on this assessment, the EDPB wishes to address the following recommendations to the co-
legislators: 

1)  The legal basis of the Regulation should not be Article 82 (1) TFEU. 
2)  The necessity of a new instrument compared to the existing EIO Directive or MLAT should be 
better demonstrated, including with a detailed analysis of less intrusive means with regards to 
fundamental rights such as amendments of these existing instruments or the restriction of the 
scope of this instrument to preservation orders in combination with other existing procedures 
to request access to the data.  

3)  The Regulation should provide for a longer deadline to allow the executing service provider to 

ensure safeguards with regards to the protection of fundamental rights can be respected. 

4)  The dual criminality principle should be maintained, especially if the location criteria of the 
data is abandoned in order to maintain the obligation to take into consideration the safeguards 
provided in both concerned States (the State of the requesting authority and the State where 
the service provider is located).  

5)  The scope of the Regulation should be restricted to controllers in the sense of the GDPR or it 
should include a provision that in the event where the service provider addressed is not the 
controller of the data but the processor, the latter is obliged to inform the controller. 

6)  The  Regulation  should  include  safeguards  concerning  data  transfers  in  case  the  service 
provider would be established in a third country without adequacy decision in this field or refer 
to the directive 2016/680 as these safeguards will be applicable.  

7)  Since  the  mandatory  designation  of  a  legal  representative  differs  from  the  GDPR,  the 
Regulation  should  precise  that,  the  legal  representative  designated  under  the  e-Evidence 
Regulation should be distinct from the one designated under article 3 (2) of the GDPR.  

8)  The Regulation should contain a broader definition of electronic communication data in order 
to ensure that the appropriate safeguards and conditions for access to be established cover 
both non-content and content data.  

9)  The  Regulation  should  raise  thresholds  for  issuing  orders  and  orders  shall  be  issued  or 
authorised by courts, except for subscriber data provided the definition of this category of data 
is drastically narrowed to very basic information allowing only to identify a person without 
involving access to any communication data. 

10) The  Regulation  should  restrict  the  access  to  subscriber  and  access  data  to  a  list  of  crimes 

strictly established or at least to “serious criminal offenses”.  

11) The time limit to provide data, especially in case of emergency should be better justified in the 
Regulation, and the possibility to use a fast6-hour procedure should include the obligation for 
requesting  authorities  to demonstrate  the  emergency  triggering  the  use  of this  procedure, 
even a posteriori, in order to allow for a control of the use of such exceptional powers. 

12) The  procedure  allowing  the  production  of  content  data  without  any  involvement  of  the 
competent authorities of the Member State where the data subject is, should be abandoned.  
13) Safeguards surrounding the issuing of European Preservation Orders should be improved in 

the Regulation.  

14) The  Regulation  should  at  least  include  the  minimum  classic  derogation  that  if  there  is 
substantial grounds for believing that the enforcement of an Order would result in a breach of 
a  fundamental  right  of  the  person  concerned  leading  the  executing  State  to  disregard  its 
obligations  concerning  the  protection  of  fundamental  rights  recognised  in  the  Charter,  the 
enforcement of the order should be refused. 

 

20 

 

  

 

15) The Regulation should foresee a broader obligation to consult the competent authorities of a 
third country where the service provider requested to provide data is located in case of conflict 
of laws in order to avoid subjective interpretations from a single court.  

16) The  validity  and  duration  of  preservation  orders  should  be  more  linked  to  the  production 

orders accompanying them.  

17) The security of data transfers should be better guaranteed. 
18) The  verification  of  the  authenticity  of  the  data  should  be  foreseen,  in  particular  where 

encrypted data could be provided. 

 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

 

21 

