1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00217/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: CIVIL GUARD - POST OF CARBONERO EL MAYOR (*hereinafter,
the claimant) dated July 1, 2020 notified the Spanish Agency of
Data Protection Act (Complaint) dated 10/19/19. The claim is directed
against the neighbor of the locality A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one).
The reasons on which the claim is based are installation of video cameras-
Surveillance towards public space, without just cause.

“I also invite the Agents to go inside the house where they could

view the monitor, allowing photography of said monitor” (folio nº 1).

“In addition, he told the acting agents that he would only change the orientation to
instance of the competent judicial authority. As of 07/19/20 the cameras are still on the
same position as at the time of the first Complaint (...), so it is
I manifest that the accused has not adopted any corrective measure (...)” (folio no.
1).

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence that proves the presence of
the cameras, as well as the verification of the orientation and recording of public roads by
the same.

SECOND: On December 3, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

THIRD: On 04/01/1 a written statement of allegations is received from the party complained against
stated the following:

“It is evident a clear lack of professionalism and a flagrant ignorance

by the Agents of the video-surveillance systems (...)

Immediately received your request, I proceed to contact
the installation company of the aforementioned video-surveillance system to adopt the measures
You give correctors that infer me. These measures consist of masking the cameras
CCTV cameras at the request of the AEPD as can be seen in the part of
intervention dated 12/20/19.

The foregoing shows that I comply with your requirement as soon as I am
ordered to do so, so the corrective measures have been applied since 12/20/19.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

The agents appear at my address on 12/23/20 and after being invited to
enter and check the monitor take note I understand to issue Report on it and
be elevated to the AEPD.

That the photo of the monitor that the Agents take is the one that I attach as Documentation.
Evidence document No. 4, it states that since 12/20/19 the treatment of
The images are in accordance with the regulations in force.

For all of which, it requests that having presented this document (...)
the definitive FILE is agreed by means of the declaration of non-existence of infringement
tion or responsibility.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FOURTH: On 01/08/21, this Agency received a Civil Guard Report (Command-
dance Segovia) noting the following.

“At 12:00 p.m. on Tuesday, 12/22/20, the person denounced Mr. A.A.A.,
Presents a letter at the same Civil Guard post, in which a copy is attached,
requesting that they go to his home to verify compliance with the requirements
wishes that had been made and the date of their fulfillment.

The claimant submits an official letter from the AEPD, of which is attached co-
pia, reference E/11651/2019 dated 12/11/19, in which he was warned that if he did not
adopted the necessary measures to comply with the legally established requirements.
two, it would incur an infraction”

“For all these reasons, the acting Civil Guard Agents consider that, in terms of
regarding the treatment of the captured images, it would not be committing an infraction
tion of the current legislation”.

FACTS

First. On 07/01/20, this Agency received a new Complaint from the Guard
Civil (Segovia Command) through which the installation of cameras is transferred
of video-surveillance towards public space, without just cause.

Second. It is identified as the main responsible Mr. A.A.A., who denies the
facts imputed to him.

Third. It is accredited that this Agency, within the framework of E/11651/2019, was
informed that the installed cameras had to adapt to the regulations in force, informed
warning him of the consequences of not taking any action.

Fourth. It is proven that the respondent privately adopted corrective measures
in relation to the exterior cameras, proceeding to mask them on the date
12/20/19.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

Fifth. The Civil Guard General Directorate (Comandancia Segovia) in Report of
date 12/23/20 plasma the following:

“For all these reasons, the acting Civil Guard Agents consider that, in terms of
regarding the treatment of the captured images, it would not be committing an infraction
tion of the current legislation”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 07/01/20 is examined by me-
from which the complainant transfers the presence of a video-surveillance system
lance that does not conform to the regulations in force, installed by the accused with guidance
lightening towards the public transit zone (folio nº 1).

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed” (“data minimization”).

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative sign.
tive, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

With this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of public space either.
co, as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies
ted.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, that they are inti-
measured by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

III

In the present case, the respondent proceeded at the request of this Agency dated
12/11/19 to adopt the necessary corrective measures to avoid the capture of es-
public space, specifically adapted the system by masking the necessities
Cesarias, the measures adopted being dated 12/20/19.

Subsequently, on 07/01/20, this Agency receives a new Complaint
of the Security Forces and Bodies stating that the installed system “is
oriented in the same way as on the date the first complaint was made,
considering that no corrective action has been taken by the defendant
(…)”.

Article 62 of Law 39/215 (October 1) provides the following:

“Denunciation is understood as the act by which any person, in compliance with
compliance or not of a legal obligation, informs an administrative body
vo the existence of a certain fact that could justify the initiation of ex officio
of an administrative procedure

To the above, add that no minimum verification activity is carried out.
recording monitor, so the work of the acting force was limited to re-
Note that the external cameras with the naked eye continued in the same position.

It should be noted that the respondent did not legally notify this Agency either.
compliance with the corrective measures, nor did he inform the acting force.
of the locality, limiting itself to privately adopting the corrective measures through
See your installation company.

In such a way that the computer system of this organization was checked,
found that no corrective measure had been communicated, proceeding to give the
legal course to the new Complaint of the facts object of transfer of the Forces and
State Security Corps.

As a result of the notification of the Initiation Agreement of this sanctioning procedure,
tioner, the claimed now requires if the acting force so that it appears in
your home and check the monitor where you get image(s) from the cameras
exteriors.

On 01/08/21, a Report was received from the Civil Guard General Directorate (Co-
mandate Segovia) where what is stated by the defendant is corroborated,
taking the displacement of Agents of the Civil Guard to the domicile of the same, to
Check the monitor you own on the spot.

In the Report, the following is expressed in the last paragraph: "For all these reasons, the
Agents of the Civil Guard acting consider that, in relation to the treatment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

of the captured images, there would be no infringement of the current Legislation.
people".

IV

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the criminals has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the presumed infraction
thor. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a fact
concrete and determined, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt in the most
favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

Article 53 section 2 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides: “In addition to
the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of administrative procedures
sanctions of a punitive nature, the alleged perpetrators will have the following
Rights:

b) To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility while

the contrary is not proven”.

v

In accordance with the allegations set forth and the evidence provided, it is found that
The defendant had the system denounced in legal form at the time of the events.
chos, reason why it is appropriate to order the Archive of these proceedings, to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

no infraction is proven and the same have been clarified, more
beyond any other consideration.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Spanish Agency
that of Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives the commission of the administrative offense subject to transfer.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A. and REPORT the result
of the proceedings to the claimant CIVIL GUARD - POSITION OF
CARBONERO THE GREATEST.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

