1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00253/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated January 30, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The
The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

“He has a surveillance camera that he supposedly told me only focused
to the front door for security and the sound was off. for a mishap
vacuuming I broke the television, he sent me the video which does not focus the
entrance door as assured and on top of that it has sound, I felt spied on since
focuses on part of the room where I have had private conversations on the phone and
He was able to see everything he did. Not only is it here, an expert had to come to see the
damage and was listening to the conversation and watching us” (folio nº 1).

Together with the claim, he provides a CD in support of his claim on the
 
facts described (Proof No. 1) that corroborate the presence of the device in
the small table in the hall of the premises leased as a dwelling.

SECOND: On 06/18/20 the respondent requests from this Agency a copy of the
administrative file for the appropriate legal purposes.

THIRD: On 03/24/20, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the
denounced so that he can express what he considers opportune in relation to the facts
exposed.

"I do not understand why the Complaint has been received at my ex-partner's house, NO
I understand the reason for the Complaint, because the camera is inside my house, it is not a
local as indicated in the letter but my private home. The camera is from
table lamp bought on Amazon, located in the furniture of the hall and focuses towards the
interior (...) to scare away potential thieves. The data is stored in a
memory card installed in the same camera and the only person who has access
It's me".

FOURTH. On September 1, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, with
glo to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Pro-
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

FIFTH. On 10/07/20, a copy of the Statement of Declaration made before the
State Security Forces and Corps by the defendant himself dated
01/17/20, where he acknowledges being responsible for the installation of a camera in the
interior of the room rented to the complainant.

SIXTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the
procedure, being at your disposal the content of the administrative file.

SEVENTH. On this date, a Resolution proposal is issued by means of which
proves the infringement of the content of art. 5.1 c) RGPD, proposing a sanction in
the amount of €5,000 (Five Thousand Euros).

EIGHTH. When the database of this organization was consulted on 11/30/20, no
received any allegation in relation to it, nor has the payment of
any amount for the appropriate legal purposes.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 01/30/20, this AEPD received a claim from the complainant for
means of which transfers the following:

“He has a surveillance camera that he supposedly told me only focused
to the front door for security and the sound was off. for a mishap
vacuuming I broke the television, he sent me the video which does not focus the
entrance door as assured and on top of that it has sound, I felt spied on since
focuses on part of the room where I have had private conversations on the phone and
He was able to see everything he did. Not only is it here, an expert had to come to see the
damage and was listening to the conversation and watching us” (folio nº 1).

Second. It is identified as the main responsible B.B.B., which is the owner
owner of the property where the camera was installed, not denying being the rest
responsible for its presence.

Third. In the statement provided before the Security Forces and Bodies (Directorate
General Information of the Police 01/17/20) states that “he has rented two rooms to
a girl named A.A.A.” “That from the beginning A.A.A. knew of the existence of
camera at the entrance of the house and that works as a deterrent for thieves”.

Fourth. There is no contract with a specific clause on data protection,
informing of the purpose of their treatment.

Fifth. There is no evidence that the defendant had an information poster on the door of
access to the rented premises as a dwelling, informing that it was an area
video-surveillance.

Sixth. It is known that the images obtained from the webcam-cam have been used at the
affirm in a statement dated 01/17/20 before the General Police Directorate

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

"That by showing the images to A.A.A., they deny what happened."

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 01/30/20 is examined by me-
of which the claimant reports as the main fact the following:

“Installation of a camera in the house that you have rented, obtained images

of the interior of the same without just cause” (folio nº 1).

The facts are specified in the installation by the denounced of a device
(web-cam) that you have used to obtain images/sound of the lease.
taria of the same, without just cause, proceeding to treat the data of this without
There is no apparent reason.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:
“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
more installed comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with
all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

In the present case, we find ourselves with a lease whose
leased object is to satisfy the primary and permanent housing need of the
tenant (a).

A video camera is installed in the property covered by the contract.
surveillance (web-cam), specifically in the room under its use and enjoyment, so
that it allows the landlord to obtain images of the interior of the room (what
lime as a dwelling) and proceed to listen to what happens in it.

From the moment in which the use (enjoyment) of the property was transferred to a
third party (tenant), the notion of “personal and domestic sphere” disappears,
capturing images of third parties subject to data protection regulations
these, being mandatory to comply with a series of guarantees that are included in the
regulations in force, especially if the owner was primarily responsible for the images
nes that were obtained from entering/exiting the dwelling in question.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

The description that the Constitutional Court makes regarding the concept of do-
micilio, taking as such "the space where the individual lives exercising his freedom
more intimate, outside social conventions”.

The inviolability of the home protects not only the physical space itself, considered
but what is in it of emanation of the person and of his private sphere, having
defined by the Constitutional Court, in its judgment No. 22/1984 (Rec.59/1983), of 17
of February, the inviolable domicile as: “a space in which the individual lives without being
be necessarily subject to social uses and conventions and exercise their freedom more
intimate”.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant had a web-cam, proce-
processing data of the claimant through the device installed inside
of the dwelling (premises) that he proceeded to lease, treating the same without just cause-
gives.

Specifically, the images obtained are used by the same to reproduce
char to the tenant the breakage of the television screen that was in the
inside the house.

Declaration before the State Security Forces and Bodies (Declaration
date (01/17/20) “That when viewing the images she looks like Mrs. AAA, while wearing the
vaccum cleaner. He has knocked over the screen and has broken the television, the screen and a design table
what's behind".

So it is proven that the orientation of the camera was not in ex-
clusive as he asserts "only towards the entrance of the door", since the television is
was inside the passenger compartment, and only by viewing the images
could know with such precision of detail that the breakage of the television occurred "when passing
the vacuum cleaner and that it affected a designer table behind it”.

The accredited known facts constitute an administrative infraction.
tive, attributable to the claimed, for violation of the content of article 5.1 c) RGPD.

IV

Regarding the alleged inexistence of guilt in committing the offending conduct,
Torah. In this sense, there is no doubt that guilt constitutes an essential note in
sanctioning matter and that the so-called strict liability has no place in De-
sanctioning administrative law.

Indeed, article 28 of Law 40/2015 (October 1) provides that "They may only
be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction natural persons
and legal, as well as, when a Law recognizes them capacity to act, the groups
after those affected, the unions and entities without legal personality and the patrimonies
independent or autonomous, who are responsible for them by way of
fraud or guilt”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

 This simple non-observance cannot be understood as the admission in the Law
administrative penalty of strict liability, since the doctrine of the Court
Constitutional (Sentences 15/1999, of July 4, and 76/1990, of April 26) and the juris-
majority prudence of our Supreme Court (for all Judgment of 23 of
January 1998), as well as the requirements inherent to a rule of law, require
that the principle of culpability requires the existence of fraud or negligence.

The Supreme Court (Sentences of April 16 and 22, 1991) considers that of the ele-
element of culpability, it follows “that the action or omission, qualified as an infraction
sanction administratively, must be, in any case, attributable to its author,
by intent or recklessness, negligence or inexcusable ignorance.”

The National Court, in Judgment of June 29, 2001, in matters of protection
of personal data, has declared that “simple negligence or incompliance is enough
fulfillment of the duties that the Law imposes on the persons responsible for files or
of data processing to exercise extreme diligence...”.

The Supreme Court (Judgments of July 5, 1998 and March 2, 1999) comes
understanding that recklessness exists whenever a legal duty of care is disregarded.
given, that is, when the offending subject does not behave with the required diligence. Dili-
agency whose degree of demand will be determined in accordance with the circumstances
current in each case, such as the special value of the protected legal interest or the
professionalism required of the offender. In this sense, the aforementioned Judgment of June 5
of 1998 requires professionals in the sector "a duty to know especially the
applicable rules”.

In the present case, the defendant is responsible for the installation of a web-
cam, having obtained personal data from the accused, for a purpose not per-
mitigated by the legal system, as was the use of the same to reproach the
"breakage" of a television of his property, for which the intentionality is accredited
of the defendant by way of gross negligence at least.

Article 83.5 RGPD provides the following:

v

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
higher amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

When motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

-the seriousness of the infraction when obtaining data(s) from a space reserved for the
privacy, as was the space leased to the claimant, being able to listen to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

versions of the same and treating the data of this without just cause (art. 83.2 a)
GDPR).

-the intentionality or negligence of the infringement, by not reporting in the contract
lease of the purpose of processing the data obtained with the device
vo denounced and exceed the limits in the recording area (article 83.2 b) RGPD).

In this case, the seriousness of the facts described is taken into account,
that suppose an attack on the inviolability of the home, in this case the object of
treatment to the complainant, proceeding to treat data of the same in their chores
newspapers without just cause, all of which justify imposing a criminal sanction.
frada in the amount of €5,000 (Five Thousand Euros).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE Don B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €5,000 (Five
A thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don B.B.B. and REPORT the
result of the actions to the complainant Doña A.A.A.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

