 

 

 

Data Protection Officer 
Department for Education (DfE) 
Sanctuary Buildings,  
Great Smith Street,  
London  
SW1P 3BT  
  

 

 

  
2 November 2022 
  
Dear 
 
Case Reference Number INV/0538/2020 
 
We write to inform you that the ICO has now completed its investigation into the 
sharing of personal data stored on the Learning Records Service (LRS) database, 
for which the DfE is the data controller. The LRS database contains both personal 
and special category data and at the time of the incident there were 28 million 
records stored on it. Some of those records would have pertained to children 
aged 14 and over.  
 
The DfE permitted third party access to the LRS database outside of the DfE and 
subsequent processing took place of some of that personal data (including 
children) for the purposes of age verification, without appropriate control or 
oversight. The investigation has found that therefore the personal data on the 
LRS database was processed in an insecure manner and for purposes that were 
not initially intended. Furthermore, the DfE failed to be transparent about that 
processing. 
 
This case has been considered under the General Data Protection Regulation (the 
GDPR) due to the nature of the processing involved.  
 
Our consideration of this case 
 
We have investigated whether the DfE has complied with the requirements of the 
data protection legislation. 
 
Key Compliance Issues 
 
The investigation found that the DfE did not comply with the following 
requirements of the GDPR: 
 

 

1 

 

 
 

Article 5 (1)(a):   - ‘lawfulness, fairness and transparency’  
Article 5 (1)(f):    - ‘integrity and confidentiality’ 
 
This is because the DfE processed personal data without appropriate controls in 
place to sufficiently manage the risks that processing presented. 
 

•  The DfE failed to protect against the unauthorised processing by third 

parties of data held on the LRS database for reasons other than the 
provision of educational services. Data subjects were unaware of the 
processing and could not object or otherwise withdraw from this 
processing therefore the DfE failed to process the data fairly and 
lawfully in accordance with Article 5 (1)(a). 

 

•  The DfE failed to have appropriate oversight to protect against 

unauthorised processing of personal data held on the LRS database 
and has also failed to ensure its confidentiality in accordance with 
article 5 (1)(f).     

In keeping with the ICO’s Regulatory Action Policy (RAP), the ICO considered 
issuing a fine of £10,030,000 (UK Sterling). This amount was considered to be 
effective, proportionate and dissuasive. However, due to a revised approach by 
the Commissioner to the public sector, a reprimand will be issued in accordance 
with Article 58 of the GDPR.   
For more information about the revised approach please see: 
https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/media-centre/news-and-blogs/2022/06/open-
letter-from-uk-information-commissioner-john-edwards-to-public-authorities/ 
 
Details of reprimand 
 
The reprimand has been issued in respect of the following processing operations 
that have infringed the GDPR: 
 

•  Article 5 (1)(a) requires personal data to be ‘processed lawfully, fairly 

and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject.’  

Based on the findings of this investigation, the ICO deems that the DfE 
has failed to process personal data fairly, lawfully and transparently. The 
personal data stored on the LRS database was shared with third parties 
and further processed without an appropriate lawful basis and without 
the data subject’s awareness.  
 

 

2 

 

 
 

•  Article 5 (1)(f): requires personal data be processed in a manner that 
ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including protection 
against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, 
destruction of damage, using appropriate technical or organisational 
measure ‘integrity and confidentiality’.     

Based on the findings of this investigation, the ICO deems that the DfE 
failed to have adequate measures in place to prevent unauthorised or 
unlawful access to the LRS database.   
 

Further Action Required  
 
At the time of the incident the DfE were subject to a compulsory audit which took 
place in February 2020 following issue of an Assessment Notice. This audit did 
not arise as a consequence of this incident. It should be noted that the DfE has 
cooperated with the ICO and has been working through numerous 
recommendations made as a result of the audit. 
 
It is acknowledged that access to the LRS database that was granted to the third 
party involved in this incident, has been permanently removed by the DfE, which 
has prevented further unauthorised sharing.  
 
The investigation found no regular checks were carried out on a user’s activities 
which left the LRS database vulnerable to misuse. 
 
The ICO audit and the DfE themselves identified weaknesses with its registration 
process; and steps have been taken to strengthen these processes with the 
introduction of more stringent checks and controls. This enhanced process has 
been applied to all organisations since February 2020 and includes;  
 

o  strengthening the registration process to include more verification steps 

and checking an Awarding Organisation’s accreditation;  

o  users will be required to provide an estimate of the number of learners 

per annum; 

o  users will be required to select the reason for access from a defined list 

rather than writing free text;  

o  the LRS registration form has been updated to include details of the 
DfE’s recourse in the event of a breach of their terms and conditions; 

o  checks are now routinely run to identify excessive use and to de-register 

organisations who no longer use the LRS service.   

 

3 

 

 
 

The ICO recognises that a number of internal reviews have taken place following 
this incident and the ICO audit. However, The Commissioner considers that the 
DfE could continue to improve its compliance with the UK GDPR. The DfE is 
required to implement the following five measures to improve its compliance:  

1) The DfE must take steps to improve transparency around the processing 

of the LRS database so Data Subjects are aware and are able to 
exercise their Data Subject rights, in order to satisfy the requirements 
of article 5 (1)(a) of the UK GDPR.  

2)  The DfE should continue to review all internal security procedures on a 
regular basis to identify any additional preventative measures that can 
be implemented. This would reduce the risk of a recurrence to this type 
of incident and assist compliance with article 5 (1)(f) of the UK GDPR.       

3) In addition, the DfE should ensure all relevant staff are made aware of 

any changes to processes as a result of this incident, by effective 
communication and by providing clear guidance.   

4) In order to improve compliance with article 36 of the UK GDPR - Prior 
consultation and article 35 of the UK GDPR – Data Protection Impact 
Assessment (DPIA), when processing personal data that is likely to 
result in a high risk to individuals, the DfE should complete a thorough 
and detailed Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA), which 
adequately assesses the risk posed by that processing. This will enable 
the DfE to identify and mitigate the data protection risks of that 
processing on individuals.  

5) Further, the DfE should continue to ensure sufficient data protection 

training is provided to all staff. For further advice please see Training and 
awareness | ICO   

Normally, the ICO would expect the DfE to provide an update on the steps taken 
after a three month period. However, due to the ongoing engagement with the 
ICO’s Assurance Department, updates can be provided during that regular 
ongoing correspondence within this time scale.   
 
It must be emphasised that the ICO’s decision to issue a reprimand in this case 
does not detract from the seriousness of this incident, and has been reached due 
to a revised approach by the Commissioner to the public sector. 
 
We would like to point out that if further information relating to this subject 
comes to light, or if any further incidents or complaints are reported to us, we 
will revisit this matter and further formal regulatory action may be considered as 
a result. 
 
Further information about compliance with the data protection legislation which is 
relevant to this case can be found at the following link: 

 

4 

 

 
 

 
https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/ 
 
We actively publicise our regulatory activity and outcomes, as this helps us to 
achieve our strategic aims in upholding information rights in the public interest. 
We may publish information about cases reported to us, for example where we 
think there is an opportunity for other organisations to learn or where the case 
highlights a risk or novel issue. 
 
Therefore, we may publish the outcome of this investigation to publicise our 
regulatory authority and new powers under the UK GDPR. We will publish 
information in accordance with our Communicating Regulatory and Enforcement 
Activity Policy, which is available online at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/media/about-the-
ico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico enforcement communications policy.pdf  
 
Please let us know if you have any concerns about this. 
 
Thank you for your co-operation and assistance during the course of our 
investigation.  
 
We now consider the matter closed. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 

 

Investigation Officer 
Civil Investigations 
Regulatory Supervision Service 
The Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Please note that we are often asked for copies of the correspondence we 
exchange with third parties. We are subject to all of the laws we deal with, 
including the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation, the Data 
Protection Act 2018 and the Freedom of Information Act 2000. You can read 
about these on our website (www.ico.org.uk).  
 
The ICO publishes basic details about the complaints, investigations and self-
reported data breaches it handles. These details include the name of the 
organisation concerned, the dates that we opened and closed the case, and the 
outcome. Examples of published data sets can be found at this link 
(https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/our-information/complaints-and-concerns-data-
sets/).  

 

5 

 

 
 

 
We do not include personal data in the published datasets and will anonymise the 
names of sole traders etc prior to publication. We also do not publish cases 
concerning domestic CCTV complaints and may not publish certain other cases if 
we feel it is not appropriate to do so in the circumstances.  
 
If you wish to raise an objection to us publishing a case in the datasets, whether 
or not we have published it yet, please contact us explaining your reasons for 
this at accessicoinformation@ico.org.uk .  
 
Please say whether you consider any of the information you send us is 
confidential. You should also say why so that we can take that into consideration. 
However, please note that we will only withhold information where there is good 
reason to do so. 
 
For information about what we do with personal data see our privacy notice at 
www.ico.org.uk/privacy-notice 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

6 

