Legal Advisory Office  
N/REF: 349768/2015  

It is inquired whether, in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data, access to the medical history of minors between 16 and 18 years old can be denied to the parents who hold parental authority.  

The issue raised has been the subject of study in various reports from this Agency, the latest of which is from August 7, 2014, and is partially transcribed below:  
“In regard to access to the medical history of minors by holders of parental authority, the inquirer already points out that the response of this Agency in the affirmative sense is included in its report of April 15, 2008, which states the following:  
“The following question raised refers to the possibility of providing medical reports to the parents or guardians.  
The data resulting from the medical check-up is, in any case, subject to the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, as it defines in its article 3 a) personal data as “Any information concerning identified or identifiable natural persons.”  
On the other hand, the inquiry questions whether such results can be communicated to the parents or guardians, therefore the recipient of the data is not the affected individual, which means we are faced with a transfer of personal data, defined in article 3 i) of Organic Law 15/1999 as “Any disclosure of data made to a person other than the interested party.”  
Regarding transfers, article 11.1 of Organic Law 15/1999 states that “Personal data subject to processing may only be communicated to a third party for the fulfillment of purposes directly related to the legitimate functions of the transferor and the transferee with the prior consent of the interested party.” However, it would be possible to transfer data without the consent of the interested party in the cases contemplated in article 11.2 of the same Law.  
Furthermore, it must also be taken into account that the data referred to in the inquiry is related to the health of the affected individual and, therefore, has the status of specially protected data. For this reason, it must be considered what is provided in article 7.3, according to which “Personal data referring to racial origin, health, and sexual life may only be collected, processed, and transferred when, for reasons of general interest, a Law so provides or the affected party expressly consents.”  
That said, article 154 of the Civil Code states that “Unemancipated children are under the authority of their father and mother,” adding that “Parental authority shall always be exercised for the benefit of the children, in accordance with their personality, and includes the following duties and powers: (...) To care for them, keep them in their company, feed them, educate them, and provide them with comprehensive training.”  
Consequently, having access to the health information of the children is fundamental to adequately care for their health; therefore, we understand that the Civil Code enables the transfer of health information to those who hold parental authority.  
On the other hand, as has been indicated, the enabling refers to the holders of parental authority and not to any relatives, who could only obtain the data in the event of exercising guardianship, given that article 269 of the Civil Code establishes a similar legal enabling, stating that “The guardian is obliged to care for the ward and, in particular (...) to educate the minor and provide them with comprehensive training.”  
The obligations established in the Civil Code, as long as the minor is not emancipated, remain throughout the entire minority of the affected individual. Thus, being obliged, the holders of parental authority in the terms described, the mere will of the minor subject to parental authority would not be opposed to this access, with the only exception being that a regulation with the rank of Law expressly prioritizes the will of the minor over that of the holders seeking access.  
Finally, in relation to the exercise of the right by the minor themselves, it must be taken into account that article 9.3 c) of Law 41/2002 provides that the minor shall be informed of the medical act for which their parents give consent for its execution. Given this, and establishing, as indicated at the beginning of this Agency by the Regulation, a legal presumption that the minor has sufficient maturity to exercise their rights related to data protection from the age of fourteen, it would be possible to differentiate between the right to give consent and those related to access to the medical history.  
Thus, while the consent of the parents or guardians will be necessary, it could be considered that the minor could exercise the right...
Legal Office
of access from the age of fourteen, although this exercise cannot be understood as a limitation on the right of the holders of parental authority of the unemancipated minor to access their medical history under the terms indicated in this report.

In conclusion, and addressing the issues raised, the following should be briefly noted:
- Consent for the processing of data of minors in medical histories is subject to the provisions of Article 9.3 c) of Law 41/2002.
- A minor over the age of fourteen may, in general, exercise the right of access to their medical history on their own.
- The holders of parental authority may also access the data of the minor subject to that authority while that situation persists, for the fulfillment of the obligations provided for in the Civil Code.
- The mere opposition of the minor cannot oppose that access unless recognized by a norm with the rank of Law.”

This is what I have the honor to report.
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.agpd.es
28001 Madrid