1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00020/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 21, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), and three more people, through which they make a claim against
BBB with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one), for the installation of a system
video surveillance of the property located at ***ADDRESS.1
  - ***LOCATION.1
(VALENCIA) with indications of a possible breach of the provisions of the
personal data protection regulations.

The reasons underlying the claim are as follows:

“[…] Said man has placed a surveillance camera focused on our
urbanization, from the camera it captures our street, which is a private street (It is a
closed urbanization, composed of 3 single-family homes). Control our
entrances and exits, to all the neighbors when we walk through the urbanization, to the
children when they go from one house to another in a bathing suit, (such as this summer...).

In addition, it also focuses on the room of a child under four years of age. […]”

They attach a photographic report of the location of the camera and its relationship with respect to the
housing situation of one of the complainants.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the same to the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), delivering the
notification on 11/26/2019.

There is no record in the electronic file of the reply sent by the respondent on the day
November 27, 2019. According to what he stated in the brief of
allegations, the response to the transfer was made through an email.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of January 23
of 2020.

FOURTH: On June 8, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), typified in article 83.5 of the
same legal text.

FIFTH: On July 2, 2020, this Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data written by the claimant formulating allegations to the agreement of
beginning. In them he states the following:

“[…] On November 27, 2019 at 11:23 I sent them an email
following the instructions of the data protection agency, […].

In my phone call I told him that the camera is fictitious, this man told me that
I will send the photos, which I did, […]

The reason for placing this camera is because the neighbors break my fence and
complaints that I have made to the City Council without proof they do not accept these
complaints, before this fact I went to the Civil Guard barracks and asked for advice
[…] they advised me that the camera be fastened to the fence without recording any
person. But I had to hire internet, which was very expensive for me, so
I decided to put a dummy camera, since then I have a good result.

[…]

[…] If the camera worked, it would not be possible to record the person who
complaint, because he lives a hundred meters away, referring to the fact that the camera focuses on a
room of a four-year-old girl, […], is totally false.

[…]”

Attach the following documents:

1. Text of the brief in response to the transfer sent on November 27, 2019
via email.

2. Photograph of the installed device.

SIXTH: The instructor of the procedure agreed, on August 7, 2020, to open
of a period of practice of tests, considering incorporated the claim
presented by the claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained by the
Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection and the allegations presented by the
reclaimed.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: In the photographs provided by the claimant in his letter of March 21,
October 2019, the placement of a camera-like device is observed
located high on a mast on the private property of the respondent,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

located in the direction indicated in the first antecedent, which could capture space
unaffiliated.

SECOND: The respondent states in his pleadings brief that the chamber is
fictitious In the photograph that accompanies your writing, you can see the device
accompanied by an element that looks like packaging where the model of
the camera next to the words “Dummy Camera”, “Imitation Dome Camera”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The facts object of the claim filed with the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data motivated the beginning of the present sanctioning procedure for assuming a
possible violation of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD that indicates that personal data
shall be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed (“data minimization”)”.

These infractions are typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; […]”

III

The present sanctioning procedure brings its cause in the presumed illegality of the
installation of a camera on a mast within the property located at the address
referred to in the first antecedent of this resolution, which could capture images of
areas outside the property disproportionately.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

As regards the possibility of installing a video surveillance system with the
purpose of guaranteeing the security of the dwelling and of the private space of the claimed
and with respect to the collection of public roads, article 22 of the LOPDGDD, relative to
processing for video surveillance purposes, provides that, in order to guarantee the
security of persons and goods, images of public thoroughfares may be captured "in the
to the extent that it is essential", in accordance with the principle
mentioned data minimization. It is reported that, regarding the recruitment and
images on the road it is reported that the power to capture images on public roads is
attributed, in general, to the Security Forces and Bodies in accordance with
with the provisions of Organic Law 4/1997, which regulates the use of
video cameras by the Security Forces and Bodies in public places and their
development regulations.

Also, the installed cameras cannot obtain images of private space
of third. It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the property
privacy of neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without
just cause

Notwithstanding what is stated in the preceding paragraphs, taking into account the allegations and
the photographic images presented by the respondent in his answer brief
At the beginning of this procedure, the device is of a simulated nature
with a dissuasive purpose against acts of vandalism suffered on your property.

It is worth remembering, in relation to this type of device, the recent Judgment
of the Supreme Court, Civil Chamber (STS 3505/2019, 11/07/19) which states that
"That fake security cameras also represent an illegitimate intrusion into
intimacy since those affected do not have to endure "uncertainty
permanent” on whether or not the device is operational.”

The plaintiff's right to the tranquility of his private life also includes
that of not having to endure permanent uncertainty as to whether the camera
oriented towards his farm is operational or not, since his external appearance prevents him from
verify it and, on the other hand, the defendant would always have the possibility of substituting the
non-operative chamber for another operative.

For the same reasons, the installation of the camera facing the garden of the
plaintiff cannot be considered an exercise of a ius usus inocui in the field
of neighborhood relations, because far from being innocuous, it objectively disturbed, and
without necessity, the life of the plaintiff.”

This type of conduct may have repercussions in other spheres of law,
affect the privacy of third parties, so it is recommended that they be
exclusively oriented towards your particular property. The deterrent function of
this type of device is limited, therefore, by the proportionality of the
measure, which is fulfilled by avoiding intimidating third parties and being oriented towards the
main strategic points of the house (eg orientation towards
street, adjoining windows, etc.).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

IV

The principle of the right to the presumption of innocence, recognized as a right
fundamental subjective in article 24 of the Spanish Constitution, prevents imposing
an administrative sanction when proof of
accrediting charge of the facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the
themselves of the alleged offender and applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of
doubt regarding a concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to
resolve said doubt in the most favorable way for the interested party.

The aforementioned right to the presumption of innocence is also included in a
expressed in article 53.2.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), which
establishes that:

"two. In addition to the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of
administrative procedures of a punitive nature, the alleged
responsible will have the following rights:

[…]b) To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility while
the contrary is proven.”

In relation to this principle, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 76/1990, of 26
of April, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails: “that the
sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating the
reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the person who accuses, without
no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in the
result of the tests carried out, freely valued by the sanctioning body,
must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.”

v

In accordance with the foregoing, it is not proven that the device in question is
endowed with the ability to obtain or record any image, so that by not
to be able to determine the existence of an effective treatment of data, it is not possible to speak of
infringing conduct within the scope of the regulatory framework of protection
data, which is why we proceed to file this procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. and inform A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

