 

Ms. Sophie in ‘t Veld  
Member of the European Parliament  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15 December 2020 

By e-mail only 

 

Dear Ms in’t Veld 

Ref: OUT2020-0134 
 

Thank  you  very  much  for  your  letter dated 4  June  2020  in  which  you  raise  a  series  of  questions 
regarding the processing of reservation data in the context of measures adopted to  fight the spread 
of COVID-19 

As Member States continue to fight the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, some of the measures to 
be  implemented and  steps to  be taken will  involve  the processing  of  personal  data. The challenge 
going forward, for Member States’ public  health authorities, will be to ensure  that these measures 
can be implemented in a manner that complies  with the data protection legislative framework and 
respects the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals.  In this regard, the EDPB has published 
several documents related to the processing of  personal data in the context of  the fight against the 
COVID-19 pandemic, emphasising the importance to ensure the protection of personal data in these 
exceptional circumstances and the respect of  the principles  of  necessity  and proportionality  of the 
measures in place.  

With regard to the processing  of reservation data provided by  patrons for contact tracing purposes, 
the EDPB underlines that, as with any other processing, it must be in line with the GDPR. Therefore, it 
must respect the data protection principles and be conducted under one of the legal bases identified 
in Article 6 GDPR. If special categories of personal data are processed, such  as health data, Article 9 
GDPR should also be considered. 

Some Member States have regulated this processing by imposing a legal obligation to collect data of 
patrons. In this  case, the legislative measures must  meet, among other things, the requirement for 
justification on the basis of necessity and proportionality. This is a consideration to be made by each 
Member State, with due consideration also for consultation with the national  Supervisory Authority 
as required by Article 36(4) GDPR. 

Currently,  the EDPB does  not  have  an  exhaustive  overview  with  regard to  the  specificities  of  the 
processing  activities taking  place in  every  Member  State for  the  contact tracing purposes,  as  the 
situation may evolve  in the Member States. As mentioned  above, if  a legal obligation has not been 
imposed for restaurants and other businesses  to collect such data, this can only take place if another 
appropriate legal ground in article 6 GDPR has been identified.  

In the implementation of  these measures, business  owners and service providers  collect and retain 
personal  data for contact tracing purposes. Depending on the legal basis identified by  the Member 
States’ authorities, they may be under a legal obligation to do so. It is important that they are aware 
of their responsibilities  to do this in a manner that adheres to the principles of data protection, as they  

 

1 

 

 

must  already in the  processing  of personal  data in  the conduct of  their business.  In this  regard, in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
addition to the lawfulness of the processing, the EDPB considers that the following principles may be 
of particular importance:,  

  Data Minimisation  –  only  the personal  data strictly necessary  for  contact tracing purposes 
should be collected. An example of a data minimisation measure is to request from customers 
only the provision of their name, surname and phone number.  

  Purpose  Limitation – neither the business  nor their employees  should  process  the personal 

data collected for contact tracing purposes for any other purpose, such as marketing.  

 

Integrity  and  Confidentiality  –  the  security  of  this  personal  data  should  be  ensured,  in 
particular to avoid accidental disclosure  to unauthorised  parties. In this respect, appropriate 
technical and organisation measures should be put in place. For example, asking customers to 
add their data in a file where personal data of  other customers is visible  would not comply 
with the principle of integrity and confidentiality.  

  Storage limitation – personal data collected for contact tracing purposes should  be retained 
only for as long as necessary, based upon the guidance or instruction of the relevant Member 
State authorities.  

In  addition,  data  subjects  should  receive  transparent  information  with  regard to  the  processing 
activities, including the legal basis, retention period and the purposes of the processing, as well as the 
rights that assist the data subject, in accordance with article 13 GDPR. The information should be easily 
accessible and provided in clear and plain language.  

Finally, with regard to the provision  of guidelines, the EDPB does not intend to adopt formal g uidance 
on  this  matter for the moment. Given the variety of approaches  that may be  adopted by  Member 
States in the implementation of contact tracing measures, it would be more appropriate that guidance 
be issued  at Member State level to reflect the specific  requirements of the national contact tracing 
system, and national public health recommendations. National Supervisory Authorities may also have 
a role to play in the provision  of such guidelines, as has taken place already in some Member States.  

Yours sincerely, 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

