

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities Higher vocational school, Business academy, Secondary vocational school and Language school with the right to state language exams EKONOM, o.p.s., Litoměřice, Palackého 730/1 - processing of personal data through the camera system located in the school



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection of the processing of personal data of students, employees and other persons through the camera system operated by the school.

The office found that the controlled person operates a camera system with recording for the purpose of preventing bullying, protecting school property, and protecting the health of employees and students. The subject camera system was installed in all public areas of the school (including individual classrooms) and was operated continuously, without the data subjects' consent to the processing of personal data.

The office came to the conclusion that the controlled person operates a camera system in violation of the duty of the personal data administrator according to § 5, paragraph 2 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., as it does not have any of the legal titles authorizing it to process personal data. Moreover, taking into account the established scope of monitoring and the fact that there was no negative behavior with the controlled person before or after the installation of the camera system, in the given case the invasion of privacy was significantly higher than the declared purpose of personal data processing. During the inspection, the inspected person stopped recording the recordings and said that the camera system would only be operated in the so-called online mode.

The office forwarded information about the inspection results to the relevant inspectorate of the State Office of Labor Inspection and the Czech School Inspectorate. Given that the inspected person immediately corrected the objectionable condition, the Office did not impose corrective measures and waived the imposition of a fine.

The inspection was conducted by inspector PaeDr. Jana Rybínová.




ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Act on Personal Data Protection - 1st semester > Higher Vocational School, Business Academy, Secondary Vocational School and Language School with the right to the state language exam EKONOM, o.p.s., Litoměřice, Palackého 730/1 - processing of personal data through the camera system located in the schoolView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



