 
 
 
 
 
Sophie in ‘t Veld                                                                                           Brussels, 9 October 2019  
Member of the European Parliament 
 
 
By email only 

 

Ref: OUT2019-0036 

 

Subject: Your letter to the EDPB of 30 July 2019 

Dear Mrs. in ’t Veld, 

I would like to thank you for your letter dated 30 July 2019 with regard to the renegotiation 
of the EU PNR agreement with Canada and its impact on other PNR agreements. As you are 
probably  aware,  following  up  on  the  CJEU  opinion  of  26  July  2017  on  the  draft  EU  PNR 
agreement with Canada, the Working Party 29 (WP29) had sent in April 2018 a letter to the 
Commissioners  Jourova,  Avramopoulos  and  King,  calling  in  particular  on  the  European 
Commission to take  action  in  order to ensure  compliance  with  the  CJEU’s  opinion of both 
PNR  agreements  with  the  U.S.  and  Australia,  as  many  of  the  findings  of  the  opinion  were 
found to be equally relevant with regard to other PNR instruments. The WP29 had notably 
stressed  that  “as  the  guardian  of  the  EU  treaty  and  thus  of  EU  law,  the  European 
Commission  is  required  to  make  all  efforts  necessary  and  to  take  all  steps  necessary  to 
ensure  compliance  of  all  PNR  instruments  with  the  requirements  set  by  the  CJEU  in  its 
opinion as soon as possible”. 

With regard to your question on the issue of onward transfers, I would also like to recall that 
the WP29 stated in its letter that “with a view to the other PNR agreements, Art. 19 of the 
PNR agreement with Australia and Art. 17 of the PNR agreement with the U.S.  include - in 
part  –  detailed  provisions  on  onward  transfers.  Both  of  them,  however,  do  not  provide  for 
the limitations expressed by the CJEU”. The WP29 added that “the natural understanding of 
the  CJEU  opinion  would  be  that  onward  transfers  to  other  third  countries  also  benefiting 
from  a  PNR  agreement  with  the  EU  could  only  take  place  where  both  PNR  agreements  in 
place are in compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights as interpreted by the CJEU. 
In consequence, PNR data could only be further transferred from Canada to the U.S. or, vice 
versa, from the U.S. to Canada, once both of the PNR agreements are in line with the Charter 
of Fundamental Rights as interpreted by the CJEU”. 

 

 

As regards the question whether the new draft for a PNR agreement with Canada provides 
for sufficient guarantees in order to address the deficits identified by the CJEU in its opinion, 
we are currently not in a position to comment due to the fact that a written draft has not 
been shared with us yet. We have only been orally briefed at working level on the progress 
achieved  and  the  finalization  of  the  negotiation.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  stands  ready  to 
issue  an  opinion  on  the  new  draft,  once  we  have  it,  which  would  also  allow  to  further 
answer the questions you raised in your letter.  

Yours sincerely,  

 

Andrea Jelinek 

