 

 

 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner
for privacy and
the freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

July 1, 2022

 July 7th to 14th, 2022 on site at the LfDI in Stuttgart and online:

"Artificial

Intelligence and data protection: What is meant here

self-determination?”

Opening on Thursday, July 7th, 4 p.m. with writer and

Blogger Kathrin Passig and philosopher Prof. Catrin

misselhorn

 

Program overview:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ki-woche-

2022/

The state representative Dr. Stefan Brink: “The use of

Artificial intelligence shapes the digital transformation and is

not only very important for the economy and the

public sector, but especially for the everyday life of

People.

We have experts from different disciplines

invited to share their knowledge with us and a broad

present audience. Only with more knowledge can we in

Deal confidently with artificial intelligence in the future. I

thank the speakers for helping us

To better understand artificial intelligence.”

- 2 -

An essential part of the digital transformation is through the

increased use of artificial intelligence (AI).

But where is AI in, who decides about it

Areas of application and use, and what opportunities and risks

are associated with artificial intelligence?

The social debate about what is artificial

Intelligence can and what it should be able to do is necessary for AI to be able to

to be able to integrate them into our everyday life and to gain acceptance for them

create - not as something abstract and alien, but as one

Technology that can and must be designed. So becomes one

sustainable and self-confident use of AI possible.

With the AI week, the state commissioner Dr. Stefan Brink one

comprehensive view of artificial

intelligence

-  of the

basic research up to

for practical application

in

companies and the ethical reflections on the use of AI.

well-known

Company,

international

renowned

Scientists and experts from the administration provide theirs

Work ahead, discuss with each other and allow a broad

Audience with the hybrid event format an intensive

Dealing with artificial intelligence.

On the opening day, Thursday, July 7, at 4 p.m., the

Writer, Bachmann Prize winner and blogger Kathrin

Passig with her lecture “The past of the future: 70 years

Artificial Intelligence" marks the start of the series of events. she

tells a story of artificial intelligence and thus creates

a first order of the subject. Then Prof. Catrin asks

Misselhorn whether artificial intelligence can act morally. That

The relationship between man and machine becomes ethical here

illuminated. The professor for “Digital Methods in the

Production" Doris Aschenbrenner then shares in her impulse "KI in

of practice"

their “user perspective” with the viewers,

Finally, the LfDI speaker Dr. Kristof Meding his gaze

as a technician on the topic and illustrates what is happening today and

is possible tomorrow.

- 3 -

You don't have to be an AI expert to take part in the events

to participate.

In all panels

lead the guests

in short

impulse lectures, and then with the others

to engage in conversation with panellists. Between

Lectures and the discussion can be viewed by the spectators on site

and formulate questions online, which if possible

moderators of the panels are taken up.

On Friday, July 8, at 5 p.m., the mega-topic of “mobility” moves into the

Focus:

representatives

from

Mercedes Benz,

to the

Ministry of Transport, the city of Freiburg, the Fraunhofer Institute for

Optronics, system technology and image analysis and the LfDI

after short

Impulse lectures together

to the conversation

future of mobility.

In the evening, from 8 p.m., the artist Florian Mehnert will plumb his

Lecture on the relationship between big data and freedom.

It continues on Monday, July 11, from 4 p.m.: In the panel “AI and

feelings"

look

outstanding

experts

out

different disciplines on the questions of what AI is doing

Field of emotions can and what we as humans and

Expect community from AI here. The philosopher Dr. Janina Loh,

Expert for robot ethics, and Prof. Felix Wichmann, DPhil, who

on

the University

tubingen

on

the mathematical

scientific

Faculty

With

neural

Information processing deals, talk about the digital

Transformation of our social life and whether the currently in

the AI so popular and successful deep neural networks

similar to "see", "think" and "decide" as humans do.

Under the title “Do machines like people?” Loh and

Wichmann talk to each other.

The panel will continue at 6:15 p.m. with “KI in

of the world of work I: The future is made – by research

until it is ready for the market". Here comes concentrated knowledge from the

Research, application and administration together: The Co-

Director of the Ellis Institute in Tübingen Prof. Matthias Bethge,

Matthias Menn (speaker for fundamental questions in the field of AI at

- 4 -

Ministry of Economic Affairs, also looks after the

Innovationspark KI, which is currently being built in Heilbronn) and Prof. Doris

Aschenbrenner from Aalen University briefly present theirs

Fields of work, in order to then meet with the state representative Dr.

Stefan Brink to talk about how the future can be shaped

and is designed.

It continues on Tuesday, July 12, at 4 p.m. with “KI in der

World of Work II". The second panel focuses on how

we can design artificial intelligence in the future. With Claus

Holzknecht from SAP SE, Welf Schröter from the Social Forum

Technology design and Miriam Rateike, who are at the Max Planck

Institute for Intelligent Systems in Tübingen and at the university

of the Saarland in their research on the development of

Algorithms for fair decision-making among realistic ones

Concentrated on assumptions, experts come together who

talk about how we can use artificial intelligence if possible

can be made non-discriminatory.

At 6:15 p.m., the perspective changes and the focus adjusts

on "AI and Security" and on the balancing act involved in this one

The subject area to be completed is: create security and freedom

maintain. Prof. Johannes Maucher (Head of the Institute for

applied artificial intelligence (IAAI) at the Hochschule der

Media Stuttgart), the President of the LKA Baden-Württemberg

Andreas Stenger, representatives of the company Ikara Deep Vision

Solutions that deal with the possibilities of AI-supported image processing

for security authorities, and Sebastian Hummeler

(Principal rapporteur for the Facial Recognition Guideline of the

European Data Protection Board (EDPB) and Prof. Ralf

Poscher (Director of Public Law at the Max Planck Institute for

Crime, Security and Law, Freiburg) come here

into conversation with each other.

On Wednesday, July 13th, from 4 p.m., the focus will be on “KI and

Health". The panel started with the provocative question “Who

still needs doctors?” overwritten. Here Prof. Wilhelm discuss

Stork (Director FZI Research Center for Information Technology), Dr. Keno March

- 5 -

(German Cancer Research Center Heidelberg), Dr. Dietmar Frey

(Managing Director, Charité Lab for Artificial Intelligence in Medicine)

and dr Martin Hähnel (publisher Karl Alber and BMBF project VUKIM

– Responsible use of artificial intelligence in the

Medicine) about the possible and possibly necessary use of AI

in the healthcare sector.

At the end of the AI week on Thursday, July 14th,

at 4 p.m., the focus on the country and digitization in

Baden-Wuerttemberg. With a view to “AI and Society”

formulated

Christopher

coenen

from the

institute

for

Technology Assessment and System Analysis (ITAS) at KIT in

Karlsruhe then a historical-utopian view, which on

that points to what is at the center of technical development: The

people who use the technology.

Further information:

The live stream is free for all interested parties without registration

accessible, for participation on site in Stuttgart will order

Registration requested. Program, information about the lectures

and discussion rounds, registration: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ki-woche-2022

Already available online now

In the current podcast "Data Freedom" LfDI Dr. Stefan Brink

and Prof. Tobias Keber from the Stuttgart Media University

about artificial intelligence, what it can and should be able to do, why

we as a society need to negotiate where to use them

should come, and what rules the EU Commission for AI

suggests: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/podcast-datenfreiheit- Folge-24-

artificial-intelligence-and-privacy/

The philosopher Dr. Janina Loh, expert in robot ethics, gives

an overview introduction to artificial intelligence and

Self-determination here: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/janina-loh-ethik-ki/

