Sophie in’t Veld
MEP European Parliament
Rue Wiertz 60
B-1047 Brussels
Belgium

by e-mail only

Dear Ms in ‘t Veld,

Brussels, 10 August 2021

Ref: OUT2021-00130

Thank  you  for  your  letter  concerning the use  of  Automatic  Image  Recognition  System  on
migrants  in  Italy.  The  EDPB  dedicates  special  attention  to  the  issue  of  facial  recognition
technologies, which raises unprecedented issues and concerns in terms of data protection.

Whilst  facial  recognition  technologies  may  generally  undermine  the  right  to respect  for
private  life  and  the  protection  of  personal  data,  but  also  other  fundamental  rights  and
freedoms (in particular freedom of expression and information, freedom of assembly and
association,  and  freedom  of thought,  conscience  and  religion),  it  clearly  engenders  wider
issues from an ethical and societal point of view, especially when dealing with vulnerable
people such as migrants.

Concerning the use of facial recognition technologies to monitor disembarkation operations
in  Italy  by  police  authorities,  the  Italian  Data  Protection  Authority,  according  to  the
information shared, examined the so called "Sari Real Time System", on the basis of a data
protection impact assessment carried out by the Ministry of Interior, in accordance with the
national legislation implementing the Law Enforcement Directive (EU) 2016/6801, prior to the
activation  of  the  said  system.  In  particular,  this  system  was  not  designed  to  be  used
specifically for migration, asylum and border control activities, but in general to operate in
support of investigative activities.

1 See Article 23 of the Legislative Decree No 51 of 18 May 2018.

In the negative Opinion issued on 25 March 20212, the Italian DPA, in line with the guidance
of the Council of Europe, considered the use of facial recognition technologies to be extremely
delicate for the purposes of prevention and prosecution of criminal offence. In particular, the
Sari Real Time System would entail an automated processing of biometric data on a large-
scale basis, that could also concern people not sought by the police, for instance, persons
attending a political demonstration. Even though the impact assessment submitted by the
Ministry explained that the  images  would be  deleted  immediately,  the  identification  of  a
person would be achieved through the processing of biometric data of all people present in
the  monitored  space,  so  as  to  generate  templates  comparable  with  those  included  in  a
"watch-list".  This  would  result  in  a  transition  of  surveillance  activities,  from  targeted
surveillance of some individuals to universal surveillance.

Regarding this specific case mentioned in your letter, I would like to stress again that while,
for the investigation of the use of the said technologies and the enforcement of the GDPR in
individual cases, the competency lies with each national supervisory authority, the role of the
EDPB is to ensure the consistent application of the GDPR according to Article 70 of the GDPR
and to Article 51 of the LED.

To  this  end,  the  EDPB  is  committed  to  continuing  its  work  on  analysing  the  use  of  facial
recognition. The EDPB guidelines adopted in January 2020 on processing of personal data
through  video  devices,  already  address  these  technologies,  and  several  supervisory
authorities have also taken positions or adopted decisions on specific cases involving facial
recognition. This is also the case of the Italian SA, as you pointed out in your letter. This work
is still ongoing, in particular with a view to steer the future legislative work at European and
national levels, especially with regard to the use of facial recognition technologies by law
enforcement authorities.

In this regard, it is worth mentioning the Joint Opinion 5/2021 recently adopted by the EDPB
and the EDPS on the Commission’s proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and
of the Council laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence (Artificial Intelligence
Act)3,  which  includes  specific restrictions  on  the  use  of  AI  systems  for  ‘real-time’  remote
biometric identification for the purpose of law enforcement. In this Joint Opinion, the EDPB
and the EDPS underlined that the use of AI in the area of police and law enforcement requires

2 See Decision No 127 of 25 March 2021 available at https://www.garanteprivacy.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-
/docweb-display/docweb/9575877.
3 See EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 5/2021 on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the
Council  laying  down  harmonised  rules  on  artificial  intelligence  (Artificial  Intelligence  Act)  available  at
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/edpbedps-joint-opinion/edpb-edps-joint-opinion-52021-
proposal_en

area-specific, precise, foreseeable and proportionate rules that need to consider the interests
of the persons concerned and the effects on the functioning of a democratic society.

More specifically, they called for a general ban on any use of AI for an automated recognition
of human features, such as faces, in publicly accessible spaces, in any context. A ban was
equally recommended on AI systems categorising individuals from biometrics, including face
recognition, into clusters according to ethnicity or other grounds for discrimination under
Article 21 of the Charter. Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS considered that the use of AI
systems intended to be used by competent public authorities, such as polygraphs and similar
tools to detect the emotional state of a natural person, is highly undesirable and should be
prohibited.

In  addition,  as  mentioned  in  its  two-year  work  programme  for  2021-2022,  the  EDPB  is
currently working on Guidelines on the use of facial recognition technologies in the area of
law enforcement.

Therefore, the EDPB is fully aware of the importance of ensuring that the fundamental rights
and freedoms of individuals, including the right to privacy and data protection, are adequately
safeguarded when individuals’ biometric data are subject to automatic processing through
facial recognition technologies for purposes of border management, and will follow closely
the developments on this matter.

In  line  with  the  EDPB  Strategy  2021-2023,  the  Board  will  continue  to  monitor  new  and
emerging  technologies, such  as  facial  recognition,  and  their  potential  impact  on  the
fundamental rights and daily lives of individuals, and will help to shape Europe’s digital future
in line with our common values and rules, while continuing to work with other regulators and
policymakers to promote regulatory coherence and enhanced protection for individuals.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

