1/5

Procedure No.: PS/00287/2019
938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On April 12, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter referred to as the claimant),
through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (*hereinafter, the
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed in
***ADDRESS.1, there being indications of a possible breach of the provisions of
the art. 5.1 c) GDPR.

The reasons that support the claim are "installation of a camera in

housing facade” with presumed orientation towards public road.

Attached photograph of the facade (doc. nº 1) where the installation of

some kind of device, oriented towards public space.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD). The result of this action is
describes below.

“There is no response from it in relation to the facts that are reported to it.

move”

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of July 29
of 2019.

FOURTH: On 10/28/19, the Start Agreement of PS/00287/2019 was issued
for the alleged installation of a video surveillance camera that could be illegal,
conduct contrary to the content of art. 5.1 c) RGPD, being typified in art. 83.5
a) RGPD, being the same object of notification for the appropriate legal purposes.

FIFTH: On 11/28/19, this Agency received a written statement of allegations from the
denounced stating that it is a dissuasive camera, providing evidence
documentary evidence of its character.

Provides documentary evidence (Doc. nº -2) that proves the fictitious nature of the
device denounced, in support of their statements on the facts prosecuted.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), recognizes each
Control Authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 04/12/19 by
means of which the following is transferred as the main fact:

"Installation of a camera on the facade of the house" with presumed orientation towards

public road (folio nº 1).

The facts described above suppose a violation of art. 5.1 c)

RGPD that provides the following: “Personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

Individuals can install video-surveillance cameras, although they are
responsible that they comply with current legislation, and must be
properly oriented towards private space, not being able to obtain images of the
public road.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of the LOPDGDD,
referring specifically to the "Processing for video surveillance purposes", the
processing of images in public places can only be carried out -if applicable and
prior compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and
Security Bodies, unless the exception established in the aforementioned
Article 22 of the LOPDGDD for individuals or legal entities, public or private,
respecting the conditions required in said article.

Likewise, this type of “device” must have the mandatory sign
information in a visible area, indicating the person in charge of the file before whom you can
address, informing citizens of their rights.

With this type of cameras it is not possible to control the public sidewalk, disturbing

the ambulatory freedom of passers-by, who are intimidated by it.

On 11/28/19, a written statement was received from the accused party
stating that it is a dissuasive camera, installed for reasons of
security.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

Analyzed their characteristics, it is concluded that the
device in question does not "process personal data", fulfilling a function
merely deterrent.

It should be remembered in relation to this type of device, the recent
Judgment of the Supreme Court, Civil Chamber (STS 3505/2019, 11/07/19) “that the
fake security cameras also represent an illegitimate intrusion into the
intimacy since those affected do not have to endure "uncertainty
permanent” on whether or not the device is operational.”

“The plaintiff's right to the tranquility of his private life includes
also that of not having to endure a permanent uncertainty about whether the
camera oriented towards his farm is operational or not, since its external appearance
prevents verification and, on the other hand, the defendant would always have the possibility of
replace the non-operative chamber with another operative one”.

“For the same reasons, the installation of the camera facing the garden of the
plaintiff cannot be considered an exercise of a ius usus inocui in the field
of neighborhood relations, because far from being innocuous, it objectively disturbed, and
without necessity, the life of the plaintiff.”

So this type of behavior can have repercussions on other
spheres of law, by affecting the privacy of third parties, who are intimidated by
this type of device, so it is recommended that they be exclusively
oriented towards their particular property, thereby avoiding new complaints with the
consequent cost for the person in charge of the installation.

These types of devices can fulfill a “deterrent” function, having
as a limit the proportionality of the measure, which is fulfilled by avoiding intimidating
third parties and being oriented towards the main strategic points of the lived
(eg orientation towards public roads, adjoining windows, etc. is not allowed).

III

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the same of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
most favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, it can be concluded that the apparatus reported is of a
"simulated", not being endowed with the capacity to obtain or record any image,
so that since there is no "data processing" it is not possible to speak of conduct
infringing within the scope of the regulatory framework of data protection,
without prejudice to its analysis in other legal spheres, which is why the
File of this procedure.

Therefore, according to the above,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure, as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don B.B.B. and REPORT the
results of the performances to Don A.A.A..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

