

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Statutory city of Chomutov - security of personal data



On the basis of a complaint that data from the information system of the Central Register of Vehicles (which includes the Register of Road Vehicles) had been misused, the Office carried out an inspection of the processing of personal data at the statutory town of Chomutov. The former employee of the controlled person was supposed to use information from the Central Register of Vehicles in civil proceedings before the court.

In relation to the processing of personal data in the Register of Road Vehicles, the administrator of personal data in the sense of § 4 letter j) Act No. 101/2000 Coll. The Ministry of Transport and the controlled person are in the position of a processor of personal data in the performance of the delegated authority in this area according to § 4 letter k) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. The Office checked the technical and organizational measures taken to ensure the security of processed personal data in accordance with § 13 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (security of personal data), while evaluating them as sufficient. The Office found that the inspected person set obligations for its employees in connection with the processing of personal data from the Central Register of Vehicles in a sufficiently specific and demonstrable manner. The handling of personal data in question was therefore not the result of systemic misconduct by the controlled person.

In a situation where it cannot be ruled out that personal data could also be obtained from other, publicly available sources, or even through his own activity, then it was not possible to make even a clear conclusion about the responsibility of a specific employee for the violation of § 15 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (obligation of confidentiality).

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector JUDr. Jiřina Rippelová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Statutory City of Chomutov - personal data protectionView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



