1/8

Procedure No.: PS/00168/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In the sanctioning procedure PS/00100/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to COMMUNITY OF PROPRIETORS R.R.R. (hereinafter the
claimed), given the claim of D. A.A.A. on behalf of D.B.B.B. (in
forward the claimant), and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claimant on 02/11/2019 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The claim is directed against the defendant and the
The reasons on which the claim is based are, in short: that the respondent has inserted in
the bulletin board a list of owners, who are going to claim the
unpaid installments or against which legal proceedings have already been initiated for said
reason. The board is locked and in view of anyone who
travels through said area, being able to have access to that information, totally
reserved and whose placement in a visible place violates various provisions of the
LOPD.

Contribute photos from the Community bulletin board.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 02/28/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the complainant of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required him to send to the determined Agency within a period of one month
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the claim and
its transfer to the claimed entity.

On 04/05/2019, the representative of the respondent D.C.C.C., filed a response brief
to the request sent by the AEPD indicating: that the published data is not
other than those approved by the Board of Owners, under the LOPD as
of the LPH, whose conjugation allows the free publication of data of a nature
personal without the existence of the consent of the affected party; that in compliance with a
norm with the rank of law is possible to publish on the board together with the call for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

Board, the list of delinquent owners; which, among others, is indicated by the First Chamber
of the Supreme Court in a judgment of 03/21/2014, requesting the filing of the
present performances.

On 04/10/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit the claim for processing
filed by the claimant against the respondent.

THIRD: On 05/16/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Once the initial agreement was notified, on 06/20/2019 the respondent reiterated
stated above in the response to the request for information and provided
burofax sent to the claimant communicating the debt, not collected by the
addressee (as address appears ***ADDRESS.1); installment debt certificate
community; demand for Verbal Trial against the claimant; minutes of the Board of
Owners.

FOURTH: On 07/08/2019 a trial practice period began, remembering the
following:

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated that
They are part of file E/02104/2019.

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
PS/00168/2019 presented by the respondent and the documentation that they
accompanies.

FIFTH: On 08/02/2019, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense of
that the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection sanctioned the
claimed for infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a)
of the aforementioned Regulation, with a warning in accordance with article 58.2.b) of the
same norm.

The representation of the defendant at the time of this resolution had not
filed any allegation brief.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 02/11/2019 there is a written entry in the AEPD from the affected party in which
states that the respondent has inserted a list of
owners, who are going to claim the unpaid fees or against those who already
Legal proceedings have been initiated for this reason.

3/8

SECOND. Complainant provides photos of the community bulletin board
glazed and locked with a latch key, containing the information denounced by the
claimant in view of third parties and which includes a list of owners of
unpaid installments, as well as the owners to whom a procedure has been initiated
monitoring and defendant owners.
 
THIRD. They include burofaxes sent to the claimant by the Secretary-
Administrator of the claimed party informing of the debt as prior to the presentation of
the claim before the Courts of first instance of Torremolinos. In the cited
burofaxes include the indication of Not delivered by Surplus (Not picked up at the office) and
Not delivered, notice left.

FOURTH. Copies of the Minutes of the Ordinary General Meeting held
on 03/17/2018, the Certificate of Debt of Community Quotas approved in the aforementioned
Ordinary General Meeting, as well as a copy of the demand for oral judgment against the
claimant for non-payment of common expenses before the Courts of first
instance of Torremolinos.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
resolve this procedure.

Yo

The defendant is imputed a violation of article article 5, Principles

related to the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

II

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)”

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

In the present case, as evidenced by the proven facts in the
community bulletin board includes list of quota owners
unpaid, but also the owners to whom a procedure has been initiated
monitoring for non-payment of common expenses that correspond to them and the owners
defendants, violating the duty of confidentiality.

III

5/8

It should be noted that farm administrators carry out treatment of
personal data when acting on behalf of communities of
owners, who in turn hold the status of data controller.

In the same way, the communities of owners regarding the treatment
data of the community members are legitimized, for the purposes of the causes that
collects the RGPD, in compliance with a legal obligation in accordance with the
articulated of the Horizontal Property Law (LPH).

The Horizontal Property Law, in its article 16.2 provides that "the call
of the Board contains the list of delinquent neighbors who are deprived of the vote",
being a good practice the notification of the individual call by mail, the
inclusion in box, or through intranet with key and password, avoiding any
means that may involve access by third parties (Internet).

However, the dissemination of the list of a debtor neighbor may be published
only in the case included in article 9 of the Horizontal Property Law
section h) second paragraph, "If a summons or notification to the owner is attempted
If it is impossible to practice it in the place provided for in the previous paragraph, it will be understood
carried out by placing the corresponding communication on the bulletin board.
community announcements, or in a visible place of general use enabled for this purpose."

To proceed in this way, the notification attempts must be accredited.

In the present case, the exposed facts show the violation
of the duty of confidentiality in the processing of personal data to the
publish on the notice board of the claimed the list of debtors neighbors of the
community; and, while it is true that for the publication on the bulletin board
community is in accordance with the law, prior notification must have been attempted to
the debtor owners in the place designated for notification purposes,
providing in this case the burofax with which it was intended to communicate the debt to the
claimant; is no less true than the information published on the board and exposed
to the public does not comply with the requirements indicated in the LPH, since it
includes a list of owners who have already been sued in proceedings
payment order -then it is not about notifying the prior requirement for installments
unpaid community debts - and even the information inserted in the community element
and referring to the "monitoring start owners" is not referring to their
exposure in order to complete the prior notification process of debts to
debtor owners so that they know the amount and proceed to pay it, but rather a
different purpose, such as making known those who are involved in the
civil procedure.

Therefore, the publication in the aforementioned community element whose closure is under
the control of the governing bodies of the community of owners, in the
exposed conditions, constitutes a violation of the duty of confidentiality and
whose person in charge is identified in this case with the defendant, since it is
who decides on the purpose, content and use of the data of the different
owners that comprise it and who must control the use made of the
community elements.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

IV

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned GDPR, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

On the other hand, the regulation of infractions in the LOPDGDD is more precise
Regarding the situations that give rise to an infringement and their consideration,
so that it is much easier to know the limitation period of that infraction
(that is, if it is considered minor, serious or very serious) and in the face of the sanction
administrative fee to be imposed for non-compliance.

The LOPDGDD considers for prescription purposes in its article 72:

“Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

However, article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: “Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2.b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations.

7/8

Likewise, it is necessary to point out that not correcting the incidents produced
in accordance with what is stated in the RGPD or reiterate the behavior put in
manifest in the claim and that is the cause of this procedure, as well as not
informing this AEPD of the measures adopted could give rise to the exercise of
possible actions before the person in charge of the treatment so that they are applied
effectively the appropriate measures to guarantee and not compromise the
confidentiality of personal data and the right to privacy of
people.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity COMUNIDAD DE PROPIETARIOS R.R.R.,
with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 5.1.f), typified in article 83.5.a)
of the RGPD, a penalty of warning in accordance with article 58.2.b) of the
GDPR.

SECOND: NOTIFY

this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF
OWNERS R.R.R. and INFORM the complainant of the outcome of the
claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if
the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

