Press release: The Saarland State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information will chair the data protection conference in 2021
 
 01/25/2021
 
 
 
 
 privacy
 
 
 
 press release
 
 
On January 1, 2021, the Saarland state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, Monika Grethel, took over the chair of the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (data protection conference) from her counterpart in Saxony, Andreas Schurig. “The corona pandemic had a major impact on day-to-day events last year. State control strategies and the extensive shift of professional, school and private life into the digital space resulted in a large number of data protection problems and questions. Especially in times of crisis, one of the primary tasks of the data protection supervisory authorities is to defend the fundamental right to data protection against covetousness or unjustified criticism. Special thanks are therefore due to Mr. Schurig and his team for chairing the data protection conference, which was under special circumstances during the entire Saxon presidency.", says Monika Grethel. “This year, too, the changed framework conditions for cooperation within the data protection conference will initially continue to apply, so that the first meeting under the Saarland presidency will also take place on January 27, 2021 as part of a video conference. However, I very much hope that the pandemic will develop over the course of the year in such a way that I can welcome my colleagues to the following conferences in Saarland and common demands to the politicians. The conference is technically supported in its work by numerous working groups. Monika Grethel is the Saarland State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and heads the Independent Data Protection Center Saarland. The lawyer and former administrative judge has been with the Saarland data protection supervisory authority since 2010 and was elected state representative in April 2016 by the Saarland state parliament for a period of six years. The authority has 20 employees and is responsible for monitoring and enforcing data protection requirements for public and non-public bodies based in Saarland. Further information on the data protection conference at: https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/
 return
 
 Associated files
 
 press release
 
 The Saarland State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information will chair the data protection conference in 2021
 241KB
 