Complaint about Lasso X ApS 'processing of information
Date: 13-08-2018
Decision
Private companies
The decision states that information obtained from publicly available registers can in principle be legally published.

J.nr. 2018-31-0208
Summary
The Danish Data Protection Agency has dealt with a complaint that information obtained from the Central Business Register (CVR) is published on the company Lasso's website www.lasso.dk. The company had refused to accept an objection from the complainant that the complainant's previous affiliation with a number of companies appears on lasso.dk when searching for the complainant's name.
On 13 August 2018, the Danish Data Protection Agency made a decision in the case. The Danish Data Protection Agency found that the information obtained from CVR could be lawfully published. The Danish Data Protection Agency further found that there was no basis for granting the complainant's objection to the otherwise lawful processing, as the complainant had not stated reasons relating to his special situation.
Decision
1. The Danish Data Protection Agency hereby returns to the case where you have contacted the Authority regarding Lasso X ApS '(hereinafter Lasso) processing of information about you.
The Danish Data Protection Agency has understood your inquiry as a complaint that Lasso has refused to accept your objection to your previous affiliation with a number of companies appearing on lasso.dk when searching for your name, [complaints].
After an overall assessment, the Danish Data Protection Agency finds that there is no basis for criticizing Lasso for their failure to comply with your objection.
Below is a more detailed review of the case and a justification for the Danish Data Protection Agency's decision.
2. Case presentation
2.1. By e-mail from […], you have complained that your previous affiliation with a number of companies appears on lasso.dk when searching for your name, [Complaints].
By e-mails by […], Lasso has provided a statement for the purpose of the case, which you have commented on by e-mail from […].
2.2. Your comments
You have stated that your previous affiliation with a number of companies should not be searchable solely by a search on your name, and that Lasso has no right to exhibit your personal information on the Internet. The search results should therefore only be available if the individual companies to which you have been affiliated are searched.
2.3. Lasso's remarks
Lasso has stated that the purpose of their service is to give the public the opportunity to gain insight into the Danish business community and all Danish companies, including which senior executives are associated with these companies. When searching on lasso.dk, information retrieved in real time from the CVR register (CVR) is displayed, and thus it is not information that is stored at Lasso.
Lasso has further stated that they do not process personal information about you, as only information is cached in a temporary transaction when generating a dynamic script-based website. However, if the Danish Data Protection Agency may be of the opinion that Lasso processes information about you, it is Lasso's opinion that the information is ordinary personal data covered by section 6 of the current Personal Data Act, and that the processing basis for the processing is section 6 (1). 1, no. 5 and § 6, para. 1, No. 7.
As a justification for the treatment to take place within the framework of this, Lasso has i.a. stated that the information processed in the Lasso service is all information which, in accordance with the Executive Order on the Central Business Register Act, must be contained in a central register, and that section 18 of the same Executive Order states that anyone can access this basic data. Lasso is therefore of the opinion that there can be no consideration in the balance of interests, which means that this falls out in favor of the data subject. This assessment also includes the fact that the Lasso service does not display data other than the data that is publicly available through CVR, that this data is not enriched and that the information is not used in a context other than that which already exists. and CVR.
Decision of the Danish Data Protection Agency
3.1. The Personal Data Act is per. 25 May 2018 has been replaced by new data protection rules in the form of a general EU regulation on the protection of personal data, which applies in both the private and public sectors [1], and the Data Protection Act [2], which supplements the rules in the regulation.
The Data Protection Regulation applies to all processing of personal data carried out in whole or in part by means of automatic data processing and to other non-automatic processing of personal data which is or will be contained in a register, in accordance with Article 2 (1) of the Regulation. 1.
According to Article 4 (7) of the Data Protection Regulation, a "data controller" means a natural or legal person, a public authority, an institution or another body which, alone or together with others, decides for what purposes and with what aids may be made processing of personal data.
Processing of general, non-sensitive information may take place if one of the conditions of Article 6 (1) of the Regulation 1, letters a-f, are met.
Treatment can then i.a. if processing is necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or which falls within the exercise of official authority imposed on the data controller in accordance with Article 6 (1) of the Regulation. (E) or whose processing is necessary for the data controller or a third party to pursue a legitimate interest, unless the data subject's interests or fundamental rights and freedoms requiring the protection of personal data take precedence, in particular if the data subject is a child, in accordance with Article 6 (1) of the Regulation. 1, letter f.
It is the opinion of the Danish Data Protection Agency - which is otherwise in accordance with the Authority's previous practice under the Personal Data Act - that a (private) data controller within the framework of Article 6 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation. 1, letter f, which in principle can legally process, including collect, register, process and pass on, personal information obtained from publicly available registers such as CVR.
Pursuant to Article 21 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation (1), the data subject shall at all times have the right, for reasons relating to the special situation of the person concerned, to object to the processing of his personal data based on Article 6 (1). 1 (e) or (f), including profiling based on these provisions. The data controller may no longer process the personal data unless the data controller demonstrates compelling legitimate reasons for the processing that take precedence over the data subjects' interests, rights and freedoms, or the processing is necessary for legal claims to be established, asserted or defended.
3.2. Da Lasso electronic i.a. collects, disseminates, and in certain cases processes information in the form of articles [3], the Danish Data Protection Agency is of the opinion that Lasso is data responsible for the processing of the information in question about you on lasso.dk, and that the processing is covered by the Data Protection Regulation.
The Danish Data Protection Agency also finds that the processing of the information in question about you is lawful, cf. Article 6 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation. 1, letter f, including that the information can be sought by searching for your name, as Lasso in the Authority's opinion has a legitimate interest in processing information about the Danish business community, including which senior executives are or have been associated with Danish companies, and that this interest takes precedence over your interest in the information not being processed.
The Danish Data Protection Agency has emphasized that the information is publicly available on cvr.dk, and that on cvr.dk it is also possible to search for information about your previous affiliation with a number of companies by searching for your name, [Complaints], or by search for "[Complaints] *".
An objection under Article 21 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation 1, may, however, be justified even if the treatment is otherwise lawful. This will be the case if there are compelling reasons concerning the data subject's special situation for the objection to be upheld.
As you have not stated reasons relating to your special situation, but only stated that the information should not be searchable by a search in your name, which in the Data Inspectorate's opinion is a lawful processing, the Authority finds that you have not provided special reasons why your objection should be upheld.
As your objection is not justified, the Danish Data Protection Agency finds that there is no basis for taking a position on the question of deletion (termination) of the search option in question.
Concluding remarks
Lasso is today informed of this decision.
The Danish Data Protection Agency then does not take any further action in the case, and otherwise regrets the long case processing time, which is due to great busyness in the audit.

[1] Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC (General data protection regulation).
[2] Act No. 502 of 23 May 2018 on supplementary provisions to the Regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (the Data Protection Act).
[3] eg: "[Omitted]"


