1/5

 File No.: EXP202207043

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party), dated June 22,
2022, filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed against D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the party
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system located in CALLE
*** ADDRESS.1, CANTABRIA, there being indications of a possible breach of the
provided in article 5.1.c) of the General Data Protection Regulations (in
forward, GDPR).

The reasons for the claim are the following:

The claiming party states that the claimed party is a neighbor of a farm contiguous to the
farm in which the claimant has his home and that it has security cameras
video surveillance located on the façade of his farm, oriented both to the farm of the
complaining party, as well as public roads.
It provides images of the location of the cameras and the affected areas.

The documents provided are:
- Photo report

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP) by certified postal mail, made the
06/23/2022, delivered on 07/05/2022. In view of the lack of response, the
08/29/2022, and is delivered again on 09/05/22.

No response has been received to this letter of transfer.

THIRD: On September 22, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of
the LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FOURTH: On November 18, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
pursuant to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged
infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a pleading in which, in summary,
stated:
Video surveillance cameras have been installed in the house, with the sole and urgent
need to protect the security, life and physical integrity of the exponent and his family,
since his house has been the object of two arson attacks, at night, while
they were sleeping, having survived them because their neighbors
They noticed in time, and the Civil Guard and Firefighters appeared. The severity of it
happened and the fear and risk of it happening again, is what has led to the
installation of the cameras, by own recommendation of the Forces and Bodies of
Security.
Said arson has been the subject of a complaint, which is processed in the
Court (...) of Santander, as Preliminary Proceedings. Shots are accompanied
Photographs of the last fire.
The cameras do not record adjoining land, nor the interior of any house outside
their property, nor reserved spaces, nor public roads, there being only one
camera that focuses outside the house, but it is fictitious. Accompanied are photographs of
all cameras and dummy camera affidavit.
A sign has been placed on the facade of the house, warning of the existence of
these cameras, as can be seen in the photographs.
Due to the same facts, another file has been processed and archived in that Agency,
considering that there are no rational indications of the existence of an infringement.

SIXTH: On March 15, 2023, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing to the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency the file
of the claim filed against D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infringement
of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

Notified the proposed resolution on March 23, 2022, and after the
term granted to argue, no arguments have been submitted to said proposal.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant states that the claimed party is a neighbor of the farm
adjacent to the property in which the claimant has his home and that he has
with video surveillance cameras located on the façade of his farm, oriented both to
the property of the claiming party, as well as the public highway.
It provides images of the location of the cameras and the affected areas.

SECOND: The defendant, in his allegations, states that the cameras do not
they record adjoining land, nor the interior of any house outside their property, nor

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

reserved spaces, nor on public roads, there being only one camera that
focuses outside the house, but it is fictitious. Photographs of all the
cameras and sworn statement of the fictitious camera.
A sign has been placed on the facade of the house, warning of the existence of
these cameras, as can be seen in the photographs.
 

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Response Allegations

In response to the allegations presented by the claimed party, it should be noted that
following:

Having examined the allegations of the claimed party, said allegations are accepted,
not record rational evidence of the existence of an infringement, since the only
The camera that could record public roads is fictitious, and the rest of the cameras do not record the
estate of the claiming party.

To this we must add that a previous claim for the same facts was
archived, having answered the claimed party to the transfer of the claim and the
rectification requirement in the same terms as in this procedure.

It can be concluded that we are faced with the impossibility of imputing an infraction
administration when it has not been accredited, by proof of charge, that the
cameras record the farm of the claimant and/or the public thoroughfare, for which reason the
archive.

II

Presumption of innocence

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the charges has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in them of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
way more favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning, and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of ius puniendi, in its various manifestations, is conditioned to the
game of evidence and an adversarial procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charges or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the accuser, without
that no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the body
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the penal system, and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TC 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right, in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the set of evidence and a procedure
contradictory in which one's positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no sanction may be imposed based on the
guilt of the accused, if there is no probative activity that, in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TC Auto 3-12-81).

IV.

Conclusion

In accordance with the foregoing, it has not been proven that public roads are being recorded
nor the farm of the claiming party, reason for which the File of the present proceeds
procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure, since there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction within the framework of the regulations
in force regarding data protection.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to D. B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

938-181022

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

