Monique Goyens
Director General, BEUC
Ursula Pachl
Deputy Director General, BEUC
Rue d’Arlon 80 - B-1040 Brussels

Dear Ms. Goyens, Dear Ms. Pachl,

18 June 2020

Ref: OUT2020-0064

I refer to your letter dated 14 January 2020 regarding Forbrukerrådet’s (the Norwegian Consumer
Council’s) “Out of Control” report, concerning consumers and the alleged privacy infringements of the
adtech industry.

Thank you very much for bringing this important topic to our attention. We appreciate your efforts to
put such a relevant issue on the agenda of different agencies and organisations across Europe.

The importance of the topic at hand is reflected in the EDPB Work Program 2019/2020, where we,
inter alia, are working on Guidelines on Targeting of social media users.

The  EDPB  is  not  able  to  comment  on  ongoing  investigations  conducted  by  national  supervisory
authorities. We also lack the required competence to launch investigations, as this competence lies
with the relevant national supervisory authorities.

However, please be assured that the topic of privacy in the adtech industry is assigned to the relevant
EDPB  Expert  Subgroups.  In  addition,  with  regards  to cross-border  cases,  the  One-Stop-Shop
mechanism in the GDPR ensures that the lead supervisory authority in a case cooperates and receives
input from concerned supervisory authorities. The EDPB and its Expert Subgroups also serve as a
useful  forum  for  the  national  supervisory  authorities  to  coordinate,  cooperate  and  exchange
experiences in ongoing cases – whether they are cross-border cases or not.

As  you  state  in  your  letter,  Forbrukerrådet  has  lodged  formal  complaints  with  the  Norwegian
supervisory authority. We are also aware that other supervisory authorities have received similar
inquiries from their respective national consumer authorities. We are confident that the GDPR and
EDPB cooperation mechanisms will serve as helpful tools for the national supervisory authorities in
handling these cases, working together to ensure a uniform application of the GDPR in the EEA.

Thank you again for your letter.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

