1  
Introduction  
When using the internet, there are practices that affect our privacy, such as the tracking of browsing activity that occurs when visiting a large number of websites. This tracking is usually carried out through cookies, primarily advertising or analytical cookies. The objective they pursue is the creation of profiles to offer advertising tailored to the interests and specific characteristics of each individual, in addition to collecting statistical information on access to web services.  
When we visit a website, we do not only access a single internet site, but at the same time, we are redirected in parallel to multiple third-party servers, which generally provide advertising and data analytics services to the main website. This access to third parties is what allows them to install and access the information linked to the cookies that track each user's activity. This is why most techniques used to improve user control over internet tracking are based on the possibility of minimizing third-party cookies, or directly preventing access to those third parties.  
Although it is the most well-known method, cookies are not the only means used to track a person through their web browsing. There are other techniques to achieve the same purpose, such as those based on unique advertising identifiers, or those implemented through the acquisition of the device's fingerprint. In browsers, Local Storage and IndexedDB also allow for the storage and retrieval of information on the device while browsing, and can also be used for tracking user activity.  
Measures to Minimize Internet Tracking  
The logs (activity records) of servers could also be exploited in this sense through the correlation of information stored on various sites. Thus, avoiding access to those services that engage in such practices without adequate guarantees is the most effective method of protecting privacy.  
It should be noted that these user tracking techniques are not exclusive to browsers present on personal computers. Mobile phones, tablets, and other smart devices, such as Smart TVs, use unique advertising identifiers. These identifiers are sent to internet servers when an app is used and in response to certain events, allowing for the identification and tracking of the user.  
Another element to consider is that web browsers and devices also allow for logging in, for example, with an email account. This enables direct access to email, many other applications directly from the interface and options of the browser itself, as well as maintaining customization options for services. With the user session initiated, the browsing history may be automatically sent to the provider of that service.  
User activity can also be tracked through federated authentication services offered by large internet companies and social networks. This occurs when logging into a website or a specific application can be done using a Facebook, Google, or other account.  
1 Guide on the Use of Cookies. AEPD.  
2 Technical Note: User Control in Ad Personalization on Android. AEPD.  
3 Study on Fingerprinting or Device Fingerprint. AEPD.  
Fourteen Misconceptions Regarding Biometrics  
September 2020
2  
Basic Recommendations  
The basic recommendations for users without advanced knowledge that help minimize unwanted exposure of personal data are as follows:  
1.  
Consider privacy as one of the desirable features when choosing a browser and the applications you install and use on your devices. Due to the constant evolution of these products, you should consult the latest analyses published about them.  
2.  
Avoid installing unnecessary applications in your browser; this will minimize risks.  
3.  
Keep your browser updated to enjoy the latest anti-tracking protection technologies.  
4.  
If the browser has advanced anti-tracking/profiling protection, enable or keep this setting activated. These options allow for various levels of protection; choose the highest level that also fits your preferences. In any case, if you deem it appropriate, you can enable the option to send the “Do not track” signal to websites, indicating your desire not to be tracked.  
5.  
If you consider it appropriate, you can configure the browser to block third-party cookies, or at least to block them when browsing in private mode. In browsers with anti-tracking/profiling protection, these options will be integrated into the same settings.  
6.  
Consider the utility of having two different browsers installed, one with a more restrictive configuration and another configured with greater permissions. This way, if the previous configurations prevent you from accessing a specific service, you can still access that service with the other browser while minimizing the exposure of your data.  
7.  
Another option for browsing sites that require greater access to your data is to add an exception in the configuration of the browser you are using, but remember that you will be exposing personal information with the sites included in the exception.  
8.  
You can configure the browser so that cookies are deleted upon closing. If this measure is inconvenient for browsing your favorite sites, you can choose to delete them manually from time to time.  
9.  
Avoid logging into the browser with a user account whenever possible, or at least, avoid keeping the session open indefinitely. Additionally, configure the browser not to synchronize your browsing data with your user account.  
10.  
If the browser does not have advanced anti-tracking/profiling protection, extensions that perform this function can be installed. However, only install those that offer guarantees. In general, installing third-party software in the browser can introduce risks.  
11.  
Configure your device's options so that, if you wish, the advertising identifier is not used to create profiles or display personalized ads based on location or profile. If the device allows it, you can also change the advertising identifier from the privacy settings from time to time.  
12.  
Review and configure the personalization, profiles, and advertising options of the applications, services, and social networks you use.  
Measures to Minimize Internet Tracking  
4   Tracking protection in Mozilla Firefox and Microsoft Edge.  
5   “Do Not Track” signal settings in Chrome, Firefox, and Edge.  
6   Blocking third-party cookies in Chrome, Firefox, and Edge.  
7   Changing/Resetting advertising identifier in Android and iOS.  
8   Controlling ad personalization on Twitter, Facebook, and Google.  
www.aepd.es  

3  
Measures to Minimize Internet Tracking  
Recommendations for Advanced Users  
To achieve a higher level of control and protection against unwanted tracking on the internet, advanced techniques can be employed, including:  
1.  
Setting up a DNS query blocker on the home network, such as PiHole, which allows you to add lists of domains to which connection is restricted from the devices on the network.  
2.  
Browsing through a VPN (virtual private network) or the TOR network. Using these services inappropriately can pose other risks to privacy and security in our connections.  
3.  
Installing virtual machines on your system, including only an Internet browser and browsing in virtual sessions.  
4.  
Using operating systems designed to preserve privacy and anonymity, such as Tails or QubesOS.  
9  https://pi-hole.net/  
10 https://www.torproject.org/es/  
11 https://tails.boum.org/install/  
12 https://www.qubes-os.org/intro/  
www.aepd.es