1/7



File No.: PS/00497/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 06/03/2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document submitted by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant),
through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed on land
located at ***ADDRESS.1, with indications of a possible breach of the
provided in the personal data protection regulations.

The reasons underlying the claim are as follows:

“The person responsible for the cameras installed by the Securitas Company
Direct. You have installed them without my permission or consent despite being a co-owner
of the land.

He has installed 7 surveillance cameras for me to see, with their 130º focus, vision
night vision and integrated listening microphones. 4 of those cameras point
directly to my house, my entrance and common game site. At night light some
spotlights that he has put on the cameras to focus on us and spy on the movements of the
cameras…

We have constant intimidation and threats from this lady, since
we are on trial for the partition of the land.

We feel harassed and intimidated despite giving you peaceful notice
not put cameras pointing at my house.

[…]

Attach photographic report of the location of some of the cameras.

SECOND: In accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), was transferred on 06/17/2021 and
09/09/2021 of said claim to the claimed one, so that it could proceed with its analysis and
inform this Agency within a month of the actions carried out to
comply with the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations. The
The first notification occurred on 06/29/2021, without this Agency receiving
any reply.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

However, upon receipt of the second notification, the respondent filed a written
allegations on 09/27/2021, in which it provides a copy of the service contract of
security that has signed with the company "Securitas Direct Spain" in relation to
a video surveillance system installed in your home located on the street
***ADDRESS.2. It shows that the system consists of 3 elements of
verification by image (image treatment) and 1 verification element by
sound (voice treatment), but the claimed one does not send a photo of the field of vision of
the cameras.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of 10/08/2021.

FOURTH: On 10/13/2021, the claimant sent a letter to the AEPD in which
indicates the following: “The street camera location address ***ADDRESS.2,
it is not such I put that address thinking that they asked me for the one claimed for
send you the notification or postal certification. The address where the
cameras is ***ADDRESS.1.

The claimed continues to maintain and even add more night lights to
control our movements at night…”

Attached plan of orientation of the cameras.

FIFTH: On 12/15/2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: On 12/23/2021 the aforementioned start-up agreement is notified and, in accordance with the regulations
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the part claimed
He presented a brief of allegations in which, in summary, he states the following:

“I have installed the cameras to which the complaint refers, in the farm of which I am
co-owner and use exclusively.

The cameras capture the farm and plot space that I have been using, according to a
agreement of division of common thing subscribed enters the appearing here, my brother
(now complainant) and his father (...). Since then, I have been owning Solar C
and my brother has been owning plots A and B (...).

[…]

I have the use of the house in which the cameras have been installed here
appearing since 2011 in which the agreement to divide the thing was signed
that I accompany, so I do not need your authorization for the installation of
the cameras (…)

I accompany.

- Agreement of division of common property in which the part of the property that each

one enjoys (...).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

-

Photographs of identification signs.

- Complaint relating to one of the fires.

- Contracts with the Securitas Direct and Aranzadi companies that I point out to

test effects.

SEVENTH: On 02/02/2022, the instructor of the procedure makes a request
of proof in which, basically, it requires the claimed party to provide
sharper photographs than what the cameras capture, indicating what your property is;
as well as the property title of the plot that he claims to be his.

EIGHTH: In accordance with article 53.1.a) of the LPACAP, the party claimed
requests on 02/03/2022 a copy of the file of this procedure
sanctioning, resulting delivered on 02/09/2022.

NINTH: On 02/21/2022, the respondent submits a new document in which
provides, as new documentation, the following:

-

Photographs of what the video surveillance cameras capture to date
02/13/2022 with a brief explanation of what can be seen in them.

- Simple notes from the Property Registry of *** LOCATION.1 dated

09/20/2019 of the farms.

- Death certificate and will of the claimant's father and the

claimed.

-

Securitas Direct report.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Installation of a video surveillance system, made up of at least 9
cameras, on the ground, located at ***ADDRESS.1, ***LOCATION.1, which could
capture images of private use areas of a part of the claimant's farm, such as
like your home or driveway. It provides a photographic report where the
existence of several cameras in different points of the land. Also attach a
plan of the plot on which it indicates the placement of each of the devices and
your orientation.

SECOND: It is identified as the main person in charge of the B.B.B.
with NIF ***NIF.1.

THIRD: In the allegations to the opening agreement of this procedure
sanctioning party, the respondent states, in short, that the video surveillance cameras

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

they only capture the part of the land that has been used exclusively since 2011,
in accordance with the provisions of the Common Property Division Agreement of that same
year.

This extreme is accredited with the images that it contributes about what each captures.
one of the cameras, where it is observed that the elements that are displayed are
within the portion of the farm that would correspond to the claimed one.

FOURTH: Between the parties there is a judicialized conflict according to the statement of the
claimant, for the division of the land.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The defendant was charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, considering that it installed at least 7 cameras, at different points
of the plot, located at ***ADDRESS.1, capable of capturing images of the house
and private use areas of the claimant.

Article 5 section 1 of the RGPD “Principles related to treatment” provides that:
“Personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed (“data minimization”).

This article establishes the principle of data minimization in the treatment of
personal information. It assumes that said treatment is adjusted and proportional to the
purpose to which it is directed, and the treatment of excessive data must be restricted
or proceed to delete them.

The relevance in the processing of the data must occur both in the field of
collection of the data as well as in the subsequent treatment that is carried out on them.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with
all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

Article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD provides that:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood fulfilled by placing an informative device instead
sufficiently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information."

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

Nor can images of public spaces be obtained with this type of device,
as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards a private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, which are seen
intimidated by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install sections for obtaining images
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

This infringement is typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a provision that establishes:
“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

(…)”

III

On 01/14/2022, a written statement was received from the respondent in which
states, in summary, that the video surveillance system captures "the space of the farm and
plot that I have been using, according to a common thing division agreement signed
between the person appearing here, my brother (now the complainant) and his father. The use of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

I have had the house in which the cameras have been installed since 2011 when
the agreement was signed”.

In accordance with the screenshots provided by the claimed in its new
writing of 02/21/2022, it is considered that the cameras on 02/13/2022 are limited to
capture images of the space that would correspond to the site allocated to it,
in accordance with the copy you provide of the aforementioned agreement. Well, it's not displayed.
the areas of private use of the claimant, specifically, his home or access.

It should be noted that article 28.7 of the LPACAP provides: "The interested parties
They will be responsible for the veracity of the documents they present.

IV

Based on all of the above, it can be concluded that it has not been proven that the system of
video surveillance installed by the claimed affects the private use space of the
claimant (housing or access), limiting the collection to the area of land
adjacent to the building where most of the cameras have been placed, as well as to
part of the site that would correspond to the claimed.

The parties are reminded that this body is not going to mediate in any class
of “family and/or personal” conflict between them, and should, if applicable, go to the
competent judicial authority if deemed necessary.

Therefore, according to the above,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of the administrative infraction object of claim.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimant and the respondent.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

