

Bonn, June 21, 2021


Press release 12/2021


  Artificial intelligence must serve humans
The BfDI Prof. Ulrich Kelber has campaigned in the European Data Protection Board (EDSA) for the use of artificial intelligence (AI) to be banned if it does not respect the personality and dignity of humans. In an opinion on the European Commission's draft regulation, the EDPB underlines the outstanding importance of data protection when using AI.

In an opinion on the European Commission's draft regulation, the EDPB underlines the outstanding importance of data protection when using AI.
The BfDI said: The European Commission has presented the world's first draft for a legal framework for AI. This technology has only just begun to fundamentally change our lives. In addition to the opportunities that arise, it must be ensured that personal rights, the right to informational self-determination and other fundamental rights are not violated by AI. Because such systems often process personal data that pose great risks to people's rights and freedoms. We don't want AI in the gray area of fundamental rights. I advocate a ban on AI, which runs counter to a basic understanding of free democracy.
A lot of work will still be needed before the European Commission's proposal produces a well-functioning legal framework that effectively complements existing rules on data protection, such as the General Data Protection Regulation, in protecting fundamental human rights, while at the same time promoting AI innovations. Fundamental questions arise that can only be meaningfully answered in a broad social dialogue. In addition, the interaction of the new AI regulation and existing law, in particular the General Data Protection Regulation, as well as questions regarding the design of supervision and legal enforcement of the new AI requirements must be clarified. The EDPB press release on this can be found at: https://edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2021/edpb-edps-call-ban-use-ai-automated-recognition-human-features-publicly-accessible_en







contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











