THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

PRESS RELEASE

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink
Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

September 01, 2021

 Teaching the basics with videos and

In-depth seminars on freedom of information

as a new offer of the education center BIDIB

The BIDIB training center now offers basic videos

for the area of freedom of information. The total

six videos on the State Freedom of Information Act (LIFG)

cover

the entire basic area in terms of content.

After the video training, citizens know how they

be able to submit LIFG applications quickly and effectively, and

Representatives of reporting bodies, how to

answered these requests in a target-oriented and correct manner. That

shortest video has a length of almost 7 minutes, the

longest takes about 32 minutes.

LfDI Brink: "With the videos, we offer the opportunity to

acquire knowledge independent of time and place. And with them

At the same time, we create the space for in-depth seminars

Exchange and professional discussion."

The videos can be viewed in self-study. she

are clear, self-contained and can be

be viewed in any order. If you want, you can

- 2 -

Participate in an in-depth seminar. if

the

participants

certain aspects

out

to the

If you want to deepen the basics part, you can do yours in advance

Submit questions and topic requests. The speakers

then go into this.

 

The training series is designed as a two-part format. That

However, an in-depth seminar is offered as an option. On the

home page

of

state representative

be able

the

Video training “Fundamentals of Freedom of Information” and that

in-depth seminar

free of charge

booked

will

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-

event-2021-700/). The first in-depth seminar takes place

on November 17, 2021 as an online and face-to-face event

instead of.

 

The training series “Fundamentals of

freedom of information”

contains:

1. Scope and Principles

2. Reasons for protection and rejection

3. Protection of personal data

4. Intellectual property and business and/or

trade secret protection

5. Procedure and Costs

6. The state representative for the

Freedom of information (§ 12 LIFG)

 

 

 

