1/4

Procedure No.: PS/00381/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before
COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R., by virtue of a claim filed by
Don A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claim filed by the claimant has an entry dated 6
August 2018 at the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directs against COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R.

“The existence of video-surveillance cameras that focus on public roads (whose

Justification is attached as documents No. 1 and 2”.

“For this reason, it requests: that prior to the checks deemed appropriate
carry out, an agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure is issued, in order to
stop the action (...)”-folio nº 1--.

SECOND: In view of the known data, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection
of Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, in accordance with the power recognized
in art. 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of April 27, 2016 regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data and
which repeals Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation)
(hereinafter GDPR).

THIRD: On December 3, 2018, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article (s) 5 and 6, of the RGPD, considering that the system
denounced could be contrary to the general principles and treat data without having
the consent of those affected, and may be subject to administrative sanction
(Warning) in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 RGPD.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 08/06/2018, a written document is received in this body from the
complainant by means of which the presence of
video-surveillance cameras that focus on public roads and without a sign
informative.

SECOND: On 12/03/18, the Agreement to Start the
procedure with reference number PS/00381/2018, being the same notified

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

in a timely manner to the accused party.

THIRD: The presence of at least one camera is accredited, installed in
perpendicular to the facade of the property, without being able to determine the
its operability.

FOURTH: The accused party has not made any statement in this regard in
relation to the denounced device, stating in the system “Absent in
distribution".

FIFTH: It has not been possible to determine if the camera denounced is of a
dissuasive or if it is operational, by not making any statement the party
reported.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

The defendant is charged with the commission of an alleged infraction for violation of the
Article 5 of the RGPD, which states that: “Personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

Likewise, article 6 RGPD "Legality of the treatment" includes the assumptions
that are necessary to validate the processing of personal data of third parties.

Article 4 section 3 of Instruction 1/2006 (AEPD) provides: "The
cameras and video cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain
images of public spaces unless it is essential for the purpose of
surveillance that is intended, or is impossible to avoid because of the location of
those. In any case, any unnecessary data processing should be avoided.
for the intended purpose” (*bold belongs to this body).

Article 58 section 2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 OF THE PARLIAMENT

EUROPEAN AND OF THE COUNCIL of April 27, 2016, recognizes:

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions
in this Regulation (...)”.

III

In the case at hand, the facts do not admit discussion "presence of a camera
of video-surveillance" with alleged orientation towards public roads without just cause.

As the only evidence to be assessed, the photograph(s) (Doc. nº 1 and 2) that
The complaining party provides where the installation of a camera is observed, with
orientation perpendicular to the façade, directed towards an area where a
gate (gate) closed.

It should be noted that the installation of (false) deterrent devices is not
prohibited in our legal system, without the need to place a sign
informative, given that the area in question is not being video-monitored.

From the evidence provided, control of the nearby sidewalk is not inferred, but rather that the
itself seems to fulfill a dissuasive function, to avoid entering what
It looks like a building under construction.

The lack of response from the accused party, probably due to the fact that
In the case of a building under construction, it prevents entering into a more exhaustive analysis of the
System caracteristics.

To the foregoing add that no evidence has been provided that proves a
"processing of personal data" of third parties without just cause, beyond mere
assumptions or “suspicion”.

IV

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents the imputation of an infraction
administrative when proof of charge has not been obtained and confirmed
accrediting the facts that motivate the imputation or the intervention in the
of the alleged offender. Applying the principle “in dubio pro reo” in case of
doubt regarding a concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to
resolve said doubt in the most favorable way for the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the
punisher and must be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal
or administrative (TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in
any of its manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a
contradictory procedure in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

v

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that it has not been possible to prove that the camera
denounced is obtaining images of public space in a way
disproportionate, not being corroborated either by the only evidence
provided by the complaining party.

The above does not prevent in case of continuing the camera in its current location,
that the complainant transfer the facts in his case to the Police Forces and Corps
Security of the locality (vgr. Local police) which may, where appropriate, carry out the
timely inquiries.

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED to declare the FILE of this procedure by not
be accredited any infraction within the framework of the current regulations on the subject of
Data Protection.

SECOND: NOTIFY
this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF
OWNERS R.R.R. and, according to art. 77.2 of the RGPD, as well as INFORMING the
claimant on the outcome of the claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 114.1 c) of
the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

