 

The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen
 

 
PRESS RELEASE

Bremen/Bremerhaven,
March 20, 2020

  
The State Commissioner for Data Protection submits its second activity report after the
GDPR: "The tanker is picking up speed"
 
The Bremen State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Dr. Imke Sommer, goes on the occasion
the presentation of their second activity report according to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
the Corona situation: "People are now contacting us with new questions, for example about processing
of health data in the employment relationship. The most important answer to all questions is that also in
in an exceptional situation, not everything is allowed. The crucial keywords are as usual
Necessity, proportionality and legal basis. Processing is therefore lawful if it
Done on a legal basis, the mildest means are to protect all of us and especially the risk groups
to protect against disease, and in addition are not as excessive as it would be to cut down the tree in order to do so
to harvest fruit. In the employment relationship, it will therefore usually be lawful to provide information about
infections found, contact with people found to have infections, and fact
to establish that the employees have stayed in a risk area. employers
Employers must keep this information confidential, they may only use it for the purposes mentioned
purposes and must delete them at the latest by the end of the pandemic. The other employees
telling who it is is only lawful if the colleagues have the identity
of those affected need to know in order to adequately protect their families and themselves. the
Individuals must be informed of the imminent disclosure of their identity and they must be in a
done in a manner that protects the dignity of those involved."
 
With regard to the GDPR, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information says: "A
Getting the European regulation up to speed will take longer than the 22 months that the
General Data Protection Regulation now applies. The GDPR tanker has also picked up speed in the state of Bremen
and hasn't been bobbing at the pier for a long time."
 
Every one thousand one hundred and eighty-fourth (1,184.) in the state of Bremen has
2019 complained to the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) that
Companies, administrations or other bodies collect personal data in an unlawful manner
would have processed. Since the GDPR came into force, the number of complaints from data subjects has increased by more than
doubled. Since the first day of application of the GDPR, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of information already identified data protection violations in 489 of the audit procedures carried out.
439 data protection test procedures are currently still running and could also lead to the same result

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Arndtstraße 1, 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Fax: 0421 - 496 - 18495 • Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

come to the conclusion that the facts under investigation constitute a violation of the GDPR. come monthly
an additional 6.9 data breach reports and 47.3 complaints on average.
 
The tools that the GDPR has provided to data protection regulators
to grab. With her help, the Bremen state representative was able, for example, to close the
Order the party to unlawfully set up a complaint portal about the behavior of teachers.
 
If data protection supervisory authorities determine data protection violations, the imposition of
fines in space. Many European supervisory authorities have already initiated corresponding procedures.
In the state of Bremen this was possible
not yet happened in 2019 for capacity reasons. the
However, the state commissioner is confident "that the Bremen budget legislature will ensure that
Bremen's data protection from the dinghy driving behind to the tugboat of the GDPR tanker."
 
As in previous years, employee data protection takes a high priority in the second GDPR activity report
place value. Most related to the areas of telemedia and health/social affairs
Complaints in this area. It was about cases such as tracking systems in company cars, electronic
Access systems, call center recording and video surveillance. On the occasion of the survey about the
Use of the cloud-based application Microsoft Office 365, which the State Commissioner for Data Protection and
freedom of information to the 33 companies in the state of Bremen with the most employees, it turned out that
that four companies use the Graph or Delve modules, although the State Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of information in the survey pointed out that these modules due to the comprehensive
Evaluation possibilities of the behavior of the employees are particularly problematic. Total shows
that the increasing digitization of working life poses a huge challenge for the protection of
employee data is.
 
But in other areas, too, it becomes clear that social grievances are often very closely linked to
lack of protection of personal data. After the horrific murder of Kasseler
District President Walter Lübcke in his own garden, four applicants complained that
the Bremen registration authority had refused to grant information blocks, although the applicants
Work in organizations that take a public stand against violent extremist groups.
A rather curious interaction between the supposed trustworthiness of the analogue ones
Handwriting using digital techniques was evident in one case related to 34 complaints. on
The addressees saw themselves in the address field of advertising letters with their own handwriting
confronted, which had been copied from scanned participation cards in sweepstakes.
 
In the 14th activity report on freedom of information in the state of Bremen, the state representative for
Data protection and freedom of information their demand for transparency for the administration
Algorithms and artificial intelligence used.
 
 

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

