




Press release from the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Mecklenburg-West Pomerania
Apple has started tracking shots in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania







No.20200817
|
08/17/2020
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

Apple has started recording street views and building fronts in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. By the end of September 2020, vehicles equipped with several sensors and cameras should be on public roads in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.
Apple states that the data of its own map service should be improved by analyzing paths and traffic signs. In addition, these images of the streets and houses could in future be displayed and published on the Internet in the planned "Apple Look Around" function, analogous to the "Google Street View" service.
Persons and license plates are made unrecognizable
Apple has confirmed to the Bavarian data protection supervisory authority (BayLDA), which is responsible in Germany, that the faces of people and the license plates of vehicles should be automatically pixelated before publication and thus made unrecognizable. With this, Apple wants to meet the requirement of the General Data Protection Regulation for data protection by design and reduce the risks of processing personal data.
But even if, according to Apple, the faces and the license plates are to be pixelated before publication, according to the information published by Apple so far, it can be assumed that the recordings were not made unrecognizable ("raw data"), over a period of up to 36 months, continue to be available unpixelated on the servers in the USA.
In addition, making your own house facade unrecognizable, the front yard or the parked car requires the active objection of the person concerned.
Possibility of objection by those affected
Apple has confirmed to the BayLDA that those affected have the option of contacting the company to request that the images affecting them, including the raw data, be permanently blurred. In any case, the location and, if possible, the time of the recording should be given.
Anyone who does not want recordings of their private property to be visible on Apple Look Around or thinks they have been filmed by a passing camera car can object to the data processing and request the deletion of the raw data.
More detailed information on the design of the Apple tracking shots, which contact options Apple offers and when which cities or regions are visited by the Apple vehicles can be found on the BayLDA website at:
www.lda.bayern.de/apple-kameratouren
We also provide a request for deletion offered by Apple on our website in the form of a fillable form that you can email to mapsimagecollection@apple.com to exercise your rights:
https://www.datenschutz-mv.de/static/DS/Files/Publications/Sample/Widersprechen_DV_Apple.pdf
Alternatively, you can also send the objection by post to the following address:
Apple Distribution InternationalData Protection OfficerHollyhill Industrial EstateCorkIreland
Supervisory authority
As the European headquarters are in Ireland, the Irish supervisory authority has primary responsibility for data processing by Apple in Europe. The BayLDA receives all complaints from Germany and forwards them to the Irish supervisory authority.









                Back to overview









