1/19

 Procedure No.: PS/00525/2021

RESOLUTION SANCTION PROCEDURE.

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
the entity AKER PREVENCIÓN DE RIESGOS, S.L. with CIF.: B82977836, (in
hereinafter, “the claimed party”), by virtue of the claim presented by the
MINISTRY OF SCIENCE AND INNOVATION (hereinafter, "the claimant party"), by
alleged infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons in what
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data
(RGPD) and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights, (LOPDGDD), and based on
the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 10/30/20, you entered this Agency, a brief presented by
the complaining party, in which it indicated, among others, the following:

“The Data Protection Unit of the Ministry of Science and Innovation has
knowledge that the company awarded the surveillance services of
health for public employees of the aforementioned Ministry, normative citation
repealed in the informative clause that appears when downloading the results
doctors. Likewise, they mention that "along with each form for collecting
personal data, in the services that the user can request (Aker
Prevention of Occupational Risks SL, will inform the user of the existence and
acceptance of the particular conditions of the treatment of your data in
each case, informing you of the responsibility of the file created, the address
of the person in charge, the possibility of exercising their rights of access, rectification,
cancellation or opposition, the purpose of the treatment and the communications of
data to third parties where appropriate". The full clause included is attached.

It is unequivocally verified, on site and after visiting its website, that the company:

- It does not identify the interested parties through the request for the DNI when accessing the
doctor's office where the different tests that consist of the
contracted risk prevention service.

- Does not inform the interested parties in writing about the personal data that
collect, their rights as interested parties. or the characteristics of the treatment
that they make of the data related to health to provide the contracted service.

- Does not ask for the consent of the interested parties before proceeding to treat their
health data They do not have public information on their website that
allows to know the aforementioned aspects, limiting itself
exclusively to inform of the rights of the interested party.

- Citation on the website as a clause of legitimacy of data processing
of health a “contractual relationship to which you are a party and which you have entered into
expressly”, which is certainly doubtful. Attached below is the
full paragraph copied from your website: - Legitimation for the treatment of
your data: The legal basis for the treatment of your data is the execution of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/19

contractual relationship, of which you are a party and whose content you know and have
expressly signed in the corresponding contract for the provision of
services, which is annually renewable.

- They do not have a Record of Treatment Activities accessible on their page
web, being mandatory as it is a company that deals with categories
special data (art30.5 RGPD) They do not have a Data Delegate
Data Protection accessible on the company's website nor does it appear
any appointment in the register that for this purpose provides the public with
Spanish Data Protection Agency. On the website there is still
references to LO 15199 and other regulations that are no longer in force.

For its part, the Subdirectorate General for Personnel and Inspection of Services receives
an email sent by the National Museum of Science in which it is reported that the
winning company has sent the certificates issued after recognition
doctor by mistake to the Museum email, although these do not contain data
healthcare expressly. They do, however, contain identifying data.

SECOND: On 11/30/20, this Agency transferred the claim
to the entity party to respond to it in accordance with the
stipulated in article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
protection of personal data and guarantee of digital rights, (“LOPDGDD”).

THIRD: On 12/28/20, the respondent party sends this Agency a letter of
answer, in which, among others, it indicates the following:

“Upon becoming aware of this claim, we have proceeded to review the
all the informative clauses on the protection of personal data
included in the document management of the Health Surveillance Area. They have
carried out extraordinary checks, in the data servers that issue the
information addressed to users of this area. In addition, a
new edition of the internal procedure "LOPD VS" that is attached as doc.
1.

On 10/27/2020, an email was received from the deputy director general of
personnel and service inspection, in which he indicated that, on the screen
briefing prior to downloading the medical examination by the
interested, the previous Organic Law 15/1999 on data protection was cited
of a personal nature.

This end was checked immediately and it was observed
that a template from our software provider had been left
outdated, this being the reason for the appearance of this standard no longer
valid.

We proceeded to the immediate correction of this template and it was reported by
email dated 10/28/20 that it was a template
outdated, which had already been corrected, and which had never been
There has been no security breach in relation to the data processed.
Likewise, on 10/30/20, another email was sent to the DPD of the Ministry.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/19

In the rest of the documentation, the information has always been up-to-date.
However, once this out-of-date is detected, Aker Prevention
promptly contacted your software provider for the
immediate correction of that situation, which was done the same day
10/28/2020. The cause of this issue was that the update did not occur
automatic content of the template in particular, which was
immediately corrected by the software provider once contacted by
this part.

In addition, an extraordinary review of all other
documents and personal data protection templates, with the
result that in all of them the normative citations were correct.

Regarding the additional statements of the complainant, referring to the fact that
The interested parties are not informed of their rights or that their rights are not consulted.
DNI, we must indicate that: - On behalf of the ministry itself, Aker was sent
Prevention informed consent in the model of the ministry itself. By not
submit the completed consent form of Aker, which was sent
also to the ministry, so that it could be sent to us by electronic means, was
It is necessary to adopt the signature measure in paper format by the interested party when accessing
to our medical center; let us indicate that this procedure had been
suspended in our facilities (for sending in electronic format)
in order to avoid the manipulation of paper and pens as a result of the
COVID-19 pandemic

This has forced, in the case of this ministry, that the workers
signed the informed consent form in our facilities,
with the consequent delays (delivery of the paper document,
disinfection of pens after each use…). A model of this is attached.
informed consent document

Regarding the verification of the identity of the interested parties, not only
confirmed your ID at reception but also your email (both
data provided in an Excel file by the ministry itself, together with
other data, such as telephone number and date of birth), in which they were going to
receive the download link of your occupational medical examination (previously
the terms of service must be accepted, including the protection clause
of data, and record an access password, since it is the user who must
to do so: no access password is delivered either in paper format or
digital: it is the interested party who puts the one they want to be able to access their
documentation). The record of treatment activities will be made available
disposition of the control authority, in accordance with article 30.4 of the
GDPR.

A monthly review program has been established for all documents
regarding personal data protection information of the interested parties,
in order to verify that they are displayed correctly in all the
interactions with users: web download of medical results,
generation of labor medical report, generation of benefit contracts
annual occupational risk prevention service, generation of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/19

Informed consent for health surveillance. The implantation date
of this procedure has been 11/15/2020.

The person in charge is the Director of Administration and Human Resources. The
first review has been performed and all items have passed the review.
In addition, a new edition of the procedure has been issued
internal "LOPD VS" that has been attached as document 1 with this writing.

As a summary of the present matter we can indicate that it has had its origin,
exclusively, in an outdated informative template of
data protection, which is generated in the download of the acknowledgments
doctors, and in which the interested party is informed of their rights of access,
rectification, deletion, limitation, deletion, portability. This template has
been immediately corrected.

At no time has there been a breach or loss of personal data of
the interested. As a result of this incident, they have implemented
document control systems to prevent future occurrences of
some outdated information transferred to the interested parties.

FOURTH: On 02/15/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreement is issued for the admission of processing of the claim
presented, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD Law, having appreciated
possible rational indications of a violation of the rules in the field of
powers of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FIFTH: On 07/09/21, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection
addressed an information request to the respondent, on the "Registry of
Treatment Activities”, under the investigative powers granted to
the control authorities in article 57.1 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: On 07/19/21, the respondent party sends this Agency a letter of
answer, in which, among others, it indicates the following:

“REGISTRATION OF TREATMENT ACTIVITIES

1.- Data of the data controller: a) AKER RISK PREVENTION-
GOS b) NIF: B82977836 c) Address: Calle Hermosilla 64 7º B Madrid 1.1.De-
legacy Data Protection: from José Antonio Marcos Rodríguez (05267059J)
dpd@akerprevencion.com

2.- Description of the treatment activity: a) Treatment activity: Use
of personal data of workers to incorporate into the computer program
of Technical Prevention (Prevengos), in order to prepare evaluations of
occupational risks and more complementary documentation, in accordance
with the provisions of Law 31/1995 on the Prevention of Occupational Risks. Use
of personal data of workers to incorporate into the computer program
Surveillance of Occupational Health (Prevengos), in order to comply with the obligations
tions derived from acting as an External Risk Prevention Service
Labor Goes. 2 b) Purpose: Preparation of Occupational Risk Assessment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/19

planning of preventive activity, informative records, technical records
cos annexes. Preparation of Occupational Health Medical Reports and issue certificates
job aptitude ratings. c) Category of interested parties: Company employees
sas clients of the Occupational Risk Prevention Service d) Category of
Data: Identification data of the person (name, DNI, date of birth, co-
electronic mail), pathologies that may affect its performance. Results
of medical tests: spirometry, audiometry, vision control, blood pressure,
rial, blood and urine analysis, electrocardiogram. e) Recipient category-
rios: The data has not been and will not be communicated to third parties, except
in compliance with current legislation.

3.- Security measures of the data controller: Data encryption.
cough in daily backups of data servers. front protection
to unauthorized access through firewalls, server antivirus programs,
user passwords.

The technical specifications are (...)

4.- The data referring to technical specialties (Safety at Work,
Industrial Hygiene, Ergonomics and Psychosociology) will be kept for a
period of 6 years. General period of conservation of article documents
30 of the Commercial Code. The data related to Health Surveillance is con-
They will serve at least a period of 5 years computed from the last interaction.
tion with the patient, in accordance with current regulations. Subsequently,
at the choice of the interested parties who have transmitted to Aker Prevention of
Risks the data, it will be returned or destroyed, or it will be confirmed.
They will be duly protected if there is no indication to that effect.

SEVENTH: On 11/24/21, this Agency accesses the "Policy of
Privacy” of the website of the claimed entity, https://www.akerprevencion.-
com/start/protection/ , where it reports:

“AKER, as responsible for the automated file, guarantees full
compliance with the Personal Data Protection regulations and
thus, in accordance with Organic Law 03/2018, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights and Regulation (EU)
2016/679 the Company is informed of the incorporation of its data for the
maintenance and development of its contractual and management relationship with AKER.
Likewise, it is indicated that the data provided by the Company will be used
exclusively to provide the contracted services and report any
new legislation or any technical improvement in the prevention of
labor risks that could affect or be of interest to the client company.

The data provided by the interested parties for the provision of the
services of the Occupational Medicine Area will be used for the provision of
said services and will not be transferred to any third party, except by legal obligation.

The privacy policy of AKER PREVENCION DE RIESGOS SL ensures the
exercise of the rights of access, rectification, cancellation, information and
opposition, in the terms established in the legislation, being able to use it to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/19

the

it
email
(datos@akerprevencion.com) or write to AKER PREVENCION DE
RIESGOS SL, Hermosilla street, 64 7º B Madrid 28001”.

(914464968),

telephone

via

 

In addition, information is provided on: - the Data Controller; the
Purpose of the Treatment of your personal data: - the legitimacy for the treatment
of your data; - the term of conservation of the personal data; - communication or
transfer of data; - about those who assist users or patients; - right to
file a claim with the Data Protection Officer and the right to
file a claim with a supervisory authority.

EIGHTH: Dated 12/15/21, by the Board of Directors of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data, a sanctioning procedure is initiated warning the claimed party, for
the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, as there is a possible lack of
confidentiality of the personal data of the officials of the Ministry of Science and
Innovation by sending an email by mistake to the National Science Museum.

NINTH: Notification of the initiation agreement to the claimed party, the latter in writing
dated 12/26/21, made, in summary, the following allegations:

1. The first point of the complaint brief states that the defendants are not identified.
patients of the Ministry of Science and Innovation at the time of access and
that your consent is not requested for the processing of your data: it has been
accredited that not only the DNI was checked but also the name and
surnames of each of the patients who attended the performance of the
medical examination (based on the lists previously sent to this
part by his employer: Ministry of Science and Innovation), to which
they came voluntarily and upon request to their employer.

This body to which we are addressing already indicates in its “opening” letter that
Such consent is not necessary since the legal basis of the treatment is the
provision of the service itself, included within the legal requirements of
Prevention of occupational hazards. Knowledge of these extremes, which
can easily be deduced from the applicable regulations, and even reading the
informative guides that the AEPD itself publishes on its website, we understand
that should be known by the official signing the written complaint, the
which, as indicated in the letter itself, is the Data Protection Delegate
of the Ministry of Science and Innovation.

Regarding this section we have nothing more to add, in view of what has already been
exposed by the organism to which we are addressing.

2. Regarding both the alleged deficiencies in the processing of data
personal, as in the company's privacy policy, this part has already
accredited in the inquisitive process to which it has been subjected for more than 12
months which is perfectly correct and in accordance with current regulations, and this
The body indicates in the document itself that these present
allegations: “it is considered that the information provided to the interested party
at the time of obtaining your personal data when you access consultation in
the facilities of the entity, such as the information provided in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/19

“Privacy Policy”, of the claimed web page, does not contradict what
stipulated in article 13 of the RGPD” Therefore, with respect to this point
There is nothing more to add or prove.

3. In the point referring to the alleged lack of information to users in
matter of data protection, this part has also already shown that, not
workers were only informed at the time of accessing the center
doctor, but also referred to the privacy policy of the
company published on its website (already investigated by this body) and
In addition, they received exhaustive information on all their rights in the
time of downloading your medical examination through the server
data security, and also had the information of their
rights in the very text of your medical examination. This organism like
recognizes it by saying in this writing that we allege the following: “Therefore, with
According to the evidence available at this time, it is considered that
the information that is provided to the interested party at the time of obtaining their
personal data when accessing consultation at the entity's facilities,
when you access the website to download your medical report or the
information provided in the report itself on the exercise of the
rights in terms of data protection, as well as the information that is
provided in the "Privacy Policy" of the claimed web page, it is not
contradicts the provisions of article 12 of the RGPD”. nothing more to say to
this respect, since we understand that it is sufficiently accredited.

4. In the last point of the brief that we allege, reference is made to the

breach of data confidentiality by sending 2 certificates, which
DO NOT contain any medical data, to the Museum of Science and Innovation of La
Coruna. Specifically, the denouncing official says that "he has sent the
certificates issued after the medical examination” to the Museum mail
Nacional de Ciencia (without indicating anything else, for example, from which headquarters we are
talking). It is at this point that the organism we are addressing
seems to want to base the imposition of the enormous economic sanction with which
threaten this part. It is precisely the one that requires more clarification, due to
above all to the darkness of the writing of the complaint, which, despite
to expand widely on the other points already discussed, in this particular
it is very concise and tiptoes over it. Specifically it is
at this point where we believe that it is necessary to clarify the extremes well in order to
that this organization to which we are addressing has a clear vision of it.

presumed

From the wording of the complaint, it seems to be deduced that this party has
sent the two communications; only two and not “certificates issued after the
medical examinations”, as if it were a large number, to an external entity
to the Ministry of Science and Innovation, strange to it, where “someone”
could have access to data on Ministry personnel.

The reality IS NOT THAT: the Museum of Science and Innovation of La Coruña, ES
A WORK CENTER of the Ministry of Science and Innovation and, as such
center, was communicated to this part, together with the headquarters of Paseo de la
Castellana 162 in Madrid, for the corresponding risk assessment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/19

and issuance of all documentation in this regard. Not only that, this
party made a technical visit on July 29, 2020 to this work center in La
Coruña, where he conducted various interviews with Ministry personnel there
located, carried out technical measurements in the facilities and advised on all
the preventive questions that were formulated to him.

This relevant aspect, the fact that the Science Museum in La Coruña
is a work center of the Ministry of Science, it has been "overlooked" by the
denouncing official in his written complaint, what this party understands
which is manifest negligence on his part and, secondarily, in the opinion of
this part, a sign of his evident bad faith, everything is said in strict
defense terms.

The occupational risk assessment carried out by the Ministry included the
center of Paseo de la Castellana 162 and that of La Coruña in Praza Museo
National Science 1. The technicians of this service interacted with the
staff of this dependency and the communications were exchanged
were necessary for the development of the preventive activity. The address of
mail from the National Museum of Science in La Coruña was provided to this
part by the Ministry of Science, this part has not been invented, as is
logical. The National Museum of Science IS THE MINISTRY, since it is a center
of work of this (at least that is how it was communicated to us and that is how it has been evaluated).

The two aptitudes sent, let us remember that only two, went to the Ministry,
in its center in La Coruña, the data of the company has never been released
employer (the Ministry of Science and Innovation), were sent there because the
two workers were reported in the computer system of this part
as members of the staff of the center of La Coruña; we do not believe that the
fact that, in a workforce of more than 250 people, two
workers in a center that does not correspond to them, work center of the
same company (Ministry), is a major contingency, which also has not
caused any loss of data or its disclosure outside.

That is, there has been NO communication of data outside the scope
of the company itself (Ministry), in addition, it has been a shipment to an account of
mail from the company itself, of a minimum nature (two aptitudes).

Attached as document No. 1 is the screen of the center's own website.
work of the Ministry of Science in La Coruña and as document No. 2 the
communication sent at the time to the center of La Coruña.

Attached as documents No. 3 and 4 are two of the multiple emails
emails exchanged by this party with personnel of the Ministry of
Science and Innovation of the work center of La Coruña.

Therefore, we understand that there has been no damage or infringement that
is deserving of the sanction, which, for a serious infraction, is intended to be imposed on
this part and that it would be a very serious damage to this company, which in
it complies with its obligations at all times, it has been doing so for 20 years, and that
has not given any reason for the initiation of this procedure. Is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/19

company, this SME, every day faces a daily test, as
all companies in this country, to be more efficient and to be able to offer the
best service, and we understand that you have clearly proven that in
matter of data protection complies with current regulations, being
always willing to improve its processes and services. And we don't think the
imposition of a colossal sanction like the one with which this
party is appropriate or justifiable in any way”.

TENTH: On 02/22/22, the evidence practice period began, agreeing-
be in the same: a).- consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the complaint filed
by the complainant and her documentation, the documents obtained and generated that
are part of file E/09595/2020 and b).- consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes.
torials, the allegations to the initial agreement of PS/0525/2021, presented.

ELEVENTH: On 07/12/22, the proposal for
resolution, in which it is proposed that, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency proceeds to warn the entity, AKER
RISK PREVENTION, S.L. for the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, for the
lack of confidentiality of the personal data of officials of the Ministry of
Science and Innovation when sending an email, by mistake to the National Museum of
Science.

TWELFTH: Once the proposed resolution has been notified to the party complained against, the latter,
dated 07/18/22, presents a brief of allegations, indicating, among others, what
Next:

“In the draft resolution proposal, this body to which we are addressing
makes it perfectly clear, in the list of PROVEN FACTS that (quote-
mos in correlative order):

1st) and 2nd) Regarding both the alleged deficiencies in the treatment of
personal data, as in the company's privacy policy, this part
has thoroughly informed all workers of the rights that
they assist them both prior to the performance of the Medical Examination La-
labor, and later at the time of downloading your recognition
in addition to having a privacy policy accessible at all times.
ment and in accordance with data protection regulations. Already at this time
The agency stated in its letter dated 12/15/2021 that “it is considered 2
that the information provided to the interested party at the time of obtaining
your personal data when you access consultation at the facilities of the entity.
ity, such as the information provided in the "Privacy Policy", of the
website claimed, does not contradict the provisions of article 13 of the
GDPR”.

3º) Sending 2 certificates, which do NOT contain any medical data, to the Museum of
Science and Innovation of La Coruña, which is a work center of the Ministry
of Science and Innovation.

From the written complaint formulated by the data protection delegate of the
Ministry of Science and Innovation have been accredited, after a process

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/19

inquisitive that has lasted almost TWO YEARS (since its opening on 10/30/2020,
two very clear facts in the opinion of this party:

1.- The manifest ignorance of the data protection regulations by
part of the signatory of the written complaint. On the one hand, unknown is not pre-
The express consent of the worker who is going to undergo recognition is required.
occupational medical treatment, since the legal basis of the treatment is the provision of
own service, included within the legal prescriptions of the prevention
of occupational hazards. On the other hand, he is also unaware that the Registry of Actions
Treatment activities do NOT have to be accessible via the web, but rather, in all
case, it will be made available to the Control Authority when requested,
in accordance with the provisions of article 30; 4 of the RGPD.

2.- The evident bad faith of the complainant in his writing, with serious omissions in
his written complaint, such as not knowing that the National Museum of Science and
Technology is a dependency, a work center, of the Ministry of Science
and Innovation. In this way, in his writing he wanted to make it look like two certi-
aptitude tests of two employees of the Ministry of Science and Innovation (without
medical data) had arrived, as if by magic, at the aforementioned Museum of
Science and Technology.

In the written sanction proposal it is concluded by this body that this
party is deserving of a “warning” for an “alleged infringement of the art.
Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD”. This party does not know what legal basis the
presumption of an infraction to impose a sanction. We understand that the
The only valid presumption in law is that of innocence, and that infractions
deserving of legal censure must be fully accredited and demonstrated
triads From the motion for a resolution, it is not concluded that it has been
accredited any conduct or action contrary to the protection regulations
data, with which we understand that the imposition of warnings is NOT
I lie any

3 Based on the foregoing, IT IS REQUESTED: that, once this es-
written and after the timely processing, after almost two years of answering this
part all the information requirements that have been directed to it and formulate
allegations, proceed to issue a resolution in which it is agreed that no
No “alleged infringement” of the data protection regulations has occurred
and proceed to the definitive closure and filing of these proceedings. That
warns the complainant himself, who has not only proven a lack of knowledge
inappropriate to the position he occupies as data protection delegate of the
Ministry of Science and Innovation and an evident bad faith in the drafting of
his written complaint, for causing a serious waste of time and resources
both to this organism to which we are addressing, and to this part, which must
guide their efforts to daily activity to generate the necessary income
for their subsistence, like any other company in this country

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and do-
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/19

First: On the presumed infractions committed in terms of protection of
data, when workers access the facilities of the entity, it
presents the following documentation:

1.- Copy of a signed individualized informed consent form
on 11/03/20 by a worker from the Ministry of Science and Innovation, and that,
according to the entity, were sent to the Ministry, prior to the completion of
of medical examinations.

2.- A copy of the document with informative clause on protection is provided
of data included when the worker goes to the AKER facilities
PREVENTION, where the following text appears:

“(…) I let you know that: _ I DO want to pass the medical examination”

“(…) In accordance with the Law on Prevention of Occupational Risks (31/95 of
November 8), the employer must carry out periodic monitoring of the
health of your employees.
 
For this, it is necessary to obtain their acceptance to carry out the recognition
doctor to which he must submit due to the characteristics of his work or
required by a legal provision.

I take this opportunity to inform you that the results of the medical examinations
are confidential, leaving only evidence of their APTITUDE
or not for the performance of their work. Access to the results of
medical examinations is restricted to medical personnel and, where appropriate, to
the Labor Authority legitimated to know said information, except
express consent of the worker (art. 22.3 and 4 of the Law on the Prevention of
Occupational hazards). (…)

DATA PROTECTION CLAUSE.

AKER PREVENCION DE RIESGOS SL, as responsible for the file
automated Health Surveillance, ensures full compliance with the
Personal Data Protection regulations and thus, in accordance with
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, Organic Law 3/2018 of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights and others
applicable regulations.

The privacy policy of AKER PREVENCION DE RIESGOS SL ensures the
exercise of the rights of access, rectification, cancellation, information and
opposition, in the terms established in the current legislation, being able to
use the telephone (914464968), email to
datos@akerprevencion.com or write to AKER PREVENCION DE
RIESGOS SL, Calle Hermosilla, 64 7º B Madrid 28001. For any questions,
clarification or complaint can be addressed to the Data Protection Delegate at
email dpd@akerprevención.com. You also have the option of
contact the Spanish Agency for Data Protection for any questions or

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/19

claim. You can consult the privacy policy of Aker Prevention at
the web address: https://akerprevencion.com/inicio/proteccion/. “

3.- Provide a copy of the document: “INFORMATION PROCEDURE OF
DATA PROTECTION IN HEALTH SURVEILLANCE” where it is stated
AKER OCCUPATIONAL RISK PREVENTION logo and the
following content:

“[…] 4.1 Prior information to the worker: When the worker goes to the
Aker Prevention facilities, within the procedures prior to the action
Health, you are presented for your knowledge and completion of the document
entitled "Health Surveillance Authorization" (registration: Consent
Informed VS Aker), […]

4.2 Information in the RML download process: The worker receives, when
the RML is already available, an email, in the account that previously
has indicated to the staff of Aker Risk Prevention, a message in which
You are transferred, among other information, your rights in terms of
protection of personal data, which you must accept to continue with
the download process. There you are informed of your access rights,
rectification, cancellation, information and opposition, in the terms established
in current legislation.

4.3 Information contained in the RML: The worker is again informed of
the rights that assist you in terms of the processing of your personal data
personnel, through the inclusion of an "Information Clause on the Protection of
Data" where the informative content of the processes of the
sections 4.1 and 4.2 […]”

4.- When the medical report is available for download, it is sent to the
user an email with a link to download your
occupational medical examination. That previously the interested party must record a
access password.

5.- Provide a copy of the informative clause included in the protection banner
data, at the time the user accesses the web to download
the labor medical examination, which includes, among others, the following
information:

“AKER PREVENCION DE RISGOS LABORALES SL, as responsible for the
automated file guarantees full compliance with the regulations of
Protection of Personal Data, Regulation (EU) 2016/679, Law
Organic 3/2018 of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee
of digital rights and other applicable regulations.

End of treatment: provision of professional occupational health services.
Data conservation criteria: the data will be kept during the
time indicated in the applicable regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/19

Communication of the data: the data will not be communicated to third parties, except
legal obligation. Rights of the interested party: the privacy policy
of AKER PREVENCION DE RIESGOS SL ensures the exercise of rights
of access, rectification, cancellation, information and opposition, in the terms
established in the current legislation, being able to use the route
telephone (914464968), email to datos@akerprevencion.com or
write to AKER PREVENCION DE RIESGOS SL, cale Hermosilla,
64 7º B Madrid 28001. In addition, you have the right to file a claim
before the control authority (Spanish Data Protection Agency) if
considers that the treatment does not comply with current regulations. Can
Consult
Aker Prevention's privacy policy at:
https://akerprevencion.com/inicio/protección/.

6.- Provide a copy of the informative clause on data protection included
in the occupational medical report that the user downloads, where it is stated, among
others, the following information:

“AKER PREVENCION DE RIESGOS SL, as responsible for the file
automated Health Surveillance, ensures full compliance with the
Personal Data Protection regulations and thus, in accordance with
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, Organic Law 3/2018 of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights and others
applicable regulations.

The privacy policy of AKER PREVENCION DE RIESGOS SL ensures the
exercise of the rights of access, rectification, cancellation, information and
opposition, in the terms established in the current legislation, being able to
use the telephone (914464968), email to
datos@akerprevencion.com or write to AKER PREVENCION DE
RIESGOS SL, Calle Hermosilla, 64 7º B Madrid 28001. For any questions,
clarification or complaint can be addressed to the Data Protection Delegate at
email dpd@akerprevención.com. You also have the option of
contact the Spanish Agency for Data Protection for any questions or
claim. You can consult the privacy policy of Aker Prevention at
the web address: https://akerprevencion.com/inicio/proteccion/.

The data of your Occupational Medical Examination will be kept during the
time established by current legislation.

Second: The information that the claimed entity provides in the “Privacy Policy
Privacy” of its website: (https://www.akerprevencion.com/inicio/proteccion/:
 ), is the
Next:

 

“AKER PREVENCION DE RIESGOS SL, as responsible for the file
automated, guarantees full compliance with the Protection regulations
of Personal Data and thus, in accordance with the Organic Law
03/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
and the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 the Company is informed of the
incorporation of your data for the maintenance and development of your relationship
contract and management with AKER. Likewise, it is indicated that the data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/19

provided by the Company will be used exclusively to provide the
contracted services and report any new legislation or any
technical improvement in occupational risk prevention that could
affect or be in the interest of the client company. The data provided by
interested parties for the provision of services in the Medicine Area of the
Work will be used exclusively for the provision of said services and not
will be transferred to any third party, except by legal obligation.

The privacy policy of AKER PREVENCION DE RIESGOS SL ensures the
exercise of the rights of access, rectification, cancellation, information and
opposition, in the terms established in the current legislation, being able to
use for this the telephone (914464968), Email
(datos@akerprevencion.com) or write to AKER PREVENCION DE
RIESGOS SL, Hermosilla street, 64 7º B Madrid 28001.

Privacy Policy:

At Aker Prevention we have always been concerned about protecting your
data, that is why we want to be transparent with the use we make of the
in order to continue offering you the best service. For this reason,
Next, we provide you with our Privacy Policy, adapted to the RGPD
and other applicable regulations:

Identification of the Data Controller:

Aker Occupational Risk Prevention SL.
Calle Hermosilla 64 7º B MADRID. Telephone:914464968.
Email: data@akerprevencion.com

Purpose of the Treatment of your personal data:

Aker Risk Prevention treats your personal data, for the maintenance
and development of their contractual and management relationship. Also, it is indicated that
The data provided by the COMPANY will be used exclusively for
provide the contracted services and report any new legislation or
technical improvement in occupational risk prevention that may be
of the interest of the client company. Your data may also be processed in the
Occupational Health area, in relation to occupational medical examinations
carried out and exclusively for the provision of this service.

Legitimation for the treatment of your data:

The legal basis for the treatment of your data is the execution of the relationship
contract, of which you are a party, in your capacity as a company, and whose
content knows and has expressly subscribed in the corresponding contract
provision of services, which is annually renewable. also their
data will be processed in relation to labor medical examinations
that can be carried out and that are essential for the realization of the
service.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/19

Period of conservation of personal data:

The personal data you provide us will be kept while
maintain the contractual / commercial relationship in force, or for a period of
four years from the last commercial relationship following the regulations to
tax effects. In addition, data relating to training courses is
will be kept for a period of five years from its delivery and the data
relating to medical examinations carried out will be kept for a
period of 5 years from its completion, in accordance with the legislation
applicable.

Communication or transfer of data:

Your data will not be communicated to any third party, except legal obligations
in force before national and/or European authorities, such as the
communication of certain contractual data to the Ministry of Employment and
Social Security of Spain through the SERPA telematics system. The data
personnel obtained for the provision of services of the Medicine Area of the
Work will not be communicated to any third party, except by legal obligation.

Rights:

Any interested party has the right to obtain from the data controller
of personal data:

1 - Access.

The interested party shall have the right to obtain from the person responsible for the
Treatment Confirmation of whether or not the data you are receiving is being processed.
concern, as well as detailed information about certain aspects
of the treatment being carried out.

2 - Rectification.

The interested party shall have the right to obtain, without undue delay, from the controller
of the treatment the rectification of the inaccurate personal data that
concern. Taking into account the purposes of the treatment, the interested party will have
right to have incomplete personal data completed,
including by means of an additional statement.

3 - Deletion (“right to be forgotten”).

The interested party shall have the right to obtain, without undue delay, from the controller
of the treatment the deletion of the personal data that concerns you, which
will be obliged to delete the personal data without undue delay, with the
limits established in the applicable regulations.

4 - Limitation of your treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/19

The interested party shall have the right to request the limitation regarding the treatment of
your personal data, in accordance with the provisions of the
applicable regulations.

5 - Right to the portability of your data.

In other words, you will have the right to receive the personal data that concerns you, that
provided to a data controller, in a structured format,
of common use and mechanical reading and to transmit them to another person in charge
of the treatment.

6 - Opposition to treatment.

In certain circumstances and for reasons related to your situation
In particular, the interested parties may oppose the processing of their data. The
entity will stop processing the data, except for legitimate, compelling reasons or the
exercise or defense of possible claims.

7 - Right to file a claim with the Protection Officer
of data.

You can request any clarification in relation to this protection policy
of data or file a claim with the Data Protection Delegate
of Aker Prevention of Occupational Risks, by sending an email to the
address: dpd@akerprevencion.com or by sending a letter to: Delegate of
Data Protection of Aker Prevention, calle Hermosilla 64 7º B Madrid
28001.

8 - Right to file a claim with a supervisory authority

In case you understand that the rights that in this
correspond to you, you can file a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Office located in Madrid, Calle Jorge Juan, 6.
(www.agpd.es).

Third: About sending an email to the National Museum of Science, the
entity claimed affirms that: “(…) the Museum of Science and Innovation of La Coruña,
is a work center of the Ministry of Science and Innovation and, as such, was
communicated, together with the headquarters of Paseo de la Castellana 162 in Madrid, for the
corresponding occupational risk assessment and issuance of all documentation
in this regard and therefore, the occupational risk assessment carried out by the Ministry
included the center of Paseo de la Castellana 162 and that of La Coruña in Praza Museo
National Science 1.

The mailing address of the National Museum of Science in La Coruña was
provided to this party by the Ministry of Science, and the two emails sent
sent there because the two workers were informed in the system
IT of this part as members of the staff of the center of La Coruña; by

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/19

so there has been no communication of data outside the scope of the own
company (Ministry) (...)”.

- Attached is the communication sent to the center of La Coruña with the
two certificates of aptitude of the workers belonging to said training center
worked.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I.- Competition:

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

II.- About the presumed violation of confidentiality when sending the
 certificates
 
 
 
issued after the medical examination by mistake to the email of the
Museum.

The company AKER RISK PREVENTION, S.L. is the awardee of the
health surveillance services for public employees of the Ministry of
Science and Innovation and within the Ministry is, as a work center, the
Museum of Science and Innovation of La Coruña,

Well, according to the entity itself, as such a center, it was, together with the headquarters of the
Ministry at Paseo de la Castellana 162 in Madrid, included in the evaluation of
occupational risks and health surveillance of its workers, carrying out, according to
It appears in the documentation provided by the entity, two medical examinations to
the two workers assigned to the Museum's workplace. attached for your
corroboration of the communication sent at the time to the center of La Coruña with the two
certificates of aptitude of the two officials.

However, the entity does not prove that the Ministry indicated as workers of the
Museo de Ciencia de la Coruña to the two people whose aptitude results he sent
to the work center in La Coruña and not to the Ministry itself, as it did with the
other workers.

Regarding this, recital (39) RGPD indicates that:

“(…) Personal data must be processed in a way that guarantees a
adequate security and confidentiality of personal data, including for
prevent unauthorized access or use of said data and the equipment used
in the treatment.

In this sense, article 5.1.f) of the RGPD establishes that the processing of data
carried out by the person in charge and/or in charge of them will be carried out:

in such a way as to ensure adequate data security
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of
appropriate technical or organizational measures.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/19

And it establishes in section 2 that the person responsible and/or in charge of said treatment:

"will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of section 1 and capable
to prove it."

Therefore, the fact that the respondent entity sent the certificates issued after
the medical examination, with identification data of two officials to the Museum of
Science of La Coruña and not to the Ministry itself as it did with the certificates of the
other workers without the Ministry classifying them as workers of the center
de la Coruña constitutes an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for
Violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, considers "very serious", for prescription purposes,
“The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.
 
It should be noted that the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 77 the sanction of
warning in relation to the processing of personal data that is not
match your forecasts. In this regard, article 83.7 of the RGPD contemplates that

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules
on whether and to what extent administrative fines can be imposed on
public authorities and bodies established in that Member State.

In this same sense, 58.2) of the RGPD provides that:

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers
corrective measures indicated below: (...) b) address all responsible or
in charge of the treatment a warning when the operations of
treatment have violated the provisions of this Regulation; (...); Yo)
impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
of the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case (…)”,

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

RESOLVES:

FIRST: WARN the entity AKER PREVENCIÓN DE RIESGOS, S.L. with
CIF.: B82977836, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/19

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity AKER PREVENTION OF
RISKS, S.L. and to the claimant about the outcome of the claim

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution, or, directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned text
legal.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/],
or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious appeal-
within a period of two months from the day following the notification of the
This resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

