1/12

Notice No. 110/2019 of June 5, 2019

Subject: Draft Order of the Government of the French Community regarding public institutions for youth protection (CO-A-2019-093)

The Data Protection Authority (hereinafter "the Authority");

Considering the law of December 3, 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, particularly Articles 23 and 26 (hereinafter "LCA");

Considering Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter "GDPR");

Considering the law of July 30, 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "LTD");

Considering the request for an opinion from Rachid Madrane, Minister of Youth, Youth Assistance, Justice Houses, Sports, and Promotion of Brussels, received on March 1, 2019;

Considering the report of Ms. Alexandra Jaspar, Director of the Knowledge Center of the Data Protection Authority;

Issues, on June 5, 2019, the following opinion:

Opinion 110/2019 - 2/12

I. 
Subject and context of the request

1. The Minister of Youth Assistance of the French Community (hereinafter "the requester") requests the opinion of the Authority on Articles 4, 5, 19, 48, 58, and 62 of the draft Order of the Government of the French Community regarding public institutions for youth protection (IPPJ).

2. This draft Order sets forth the types and capacities of care in public institutions for youth protection as well as the general regulations of these public institutions in execution of Article 71 of the decree of January 18, 2018, establishing the Code for Prevention, Youth Assistance, and Youth Protection.

3. Public institutions for youth protection are decentralized public services of the General Administration of Youth Assistance of the French Community. With the aim of reintegrating young offenders through an educational and restorative approach (Article 1, 11° of the aforementioned decree of 01/18/18), they provide care for young people over 14 years old who have committed an act classified as an offense in the cases referred to in Article 124, § 2 of the aforementioned decree of January 18, 2018 (open regime) and Article 124, § 3 of the same decree (closed environment), based on a decision by the youth judge for a period determined by the latter.

4. According to Articles 10 and following of the draft Order, this care consists of three types of intervention concerning the young person:
a. Accommodation in a diagnostic unit (30 non-renewable days) to assess the risks of recidivism, the needs, strengths, and receptivity factors of the young person to establish an intervention plan setting the objectives to be achieved by the young person and to propose to the youth court the most appropriate measure in accordance with the hierarchy of measures established by the aforementioned decree of January 18, 2018;
b. Accommodation in an educational unit (3 renewable months) to make the young person aware of their actions while ensuring to enhance the young person's image and to seek the most suitable solution for their situation. This unit develops an individual project for the young person aimed at their behavioral, psychological, and emotional stabilization prior to reintegration into society.

1 See 12 years old when a young person has seriously harmed the life or health of others and whose behavior is particularly dangerous (Article 124, §4 of the aforementioned decree of 01/18/2018)
Notice 110/2019 - 3/12  
c. the accommodation in an intermediate unit (15 days renewable once) of young people whose violent behavior requires temporary removal in order to promote ties with the staff members of the concerned service.  
5. In the exercise of their missions, public youth protection institutions prepare evaluation and progress reports on the young people in their care for the youth court (art. 65 of the aforementioned Decree of 18/01/2018).  

6. There are 6 public youth protection institutions in Wallonia. Each can accommodate between 22 and 56 young people (for a total of 237 places).  

II.  
Examination  

7. Any provision governing the processing of personal data must meet the usual quality criteria imposed by said standards so that, upon reading, the individuals concerned about whom data is processed can clearly foresee the processing of their personal data. Thus, as required by Article 6.3 of the GDPR read in conjunction with Articles 22 of the Constitution and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the essential elements of the processing must be precisely described; namely, its specific purpose(s), the types of data processed that are necessary for achieving this purpose, the categories of individuals concerned about whom data will be processed, the recipients or categories of recipients to whom their data is communicated, the circumstances under which it will be communicated, as well as all measures aimed at ensuring lawful and fair processing of personal data.  

8. The processing in question involves sensitive data, as defined in Article 10 of the GDPR (namely, personal data relating to criminal convictions and offenses) and furthermore concerns vulnerable categories of individuals; namely, minors. Consequently, the level of requirement for the protection of personal data and guarantees for these concerned individuals must be high in light of the risks to their rights and freedoms.  

9. The processing that the draft decree intends to regulate mainly consists of each public youth protection institution maintaining a file concerning each young person it takes in charge, as well as maintaining various registers related to decisions on visitation bans or restrictions, isolation measures, or sanctions adopted by the institution against minors.  

Notice 110/2019 - 4/12  
10. First of all, the Authority notes that, in light of the qualification criteria for the data controller set out in Article 4.7 of the GDPR, each public youth protection institution can be qualified as a data controller for the files it maintains regarding each young person in its care, as well as for the aforementioned registers. The determination by law of the data controller(s) for a processing of personal data contributes to the predictability of the law and to the effectiveness of the rights of the individuals concerned as enshrined in the GDPR. The Authority considers that the draft Decree must specify that the youth protection institutions are data controllers of the files they maintain regarding each young person in their care, as well as the aforementioned registers; which is currently lacking.  

11. Article 4 of the draft regulates the maintenance by each public youth protection institution of a file concerning each young person it takes in charge by determining the information contained therein as well as by modulating access to this file.  

12. Although it may seem implicitly obvious, the purpose for which this file is maintained - namely, the care, in the sense of Articles 10 and following of the draft Decree, by each public youth protection institution of the young people entrusted to it by the youth judge - must be explicitly clarified in Article 10 of the draft.  

13. As for the information included in this file, it must, in accordance with the data minimization principle prescribed in Article 5.1.c of the GDPR, be adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which it is processed. The information listed in Article 4, §1 of the draft appears relevant. That being said, to avoid any interpretation that would imply the carrying out of disproportionate data processing by the youth protection institution, certain formulations should be improved in this regard:  
a. At the level of Article 4, §1, 1° of the draft, it should be specified that the documents communicated by the youth court included in the file are those necessary for the exercise of the public service mission of the youth protection institution;  
b. At the level of Article 4, §1, 2° of the draft, it should be specified that the reports concerning the young person and the elements transmitted to the youth court are those referred to in Article 65 of the aforementioned decree of January 18, 2018. Otherwise, it should be specified what documents are involved and in a manner consistent with the data minimization principle;  
c. At the level of Article 4, §1, 5°, it should be clarified in the text what is meant by "individual project of the young person." Is it the project referred to in Article 12, §2 of the draft Decree?
Notice 110/2019 - 5/12  
14. The retention period of the file must also be specified in the draft Order. In accordance with the principle of data retention limitation set out in Article 5.1.e of the GDPR, this period must be determined in such a way that it does not exceed what is necessary for the achievement of the purpose for which the data is processed by the public youth protection institution.  

15. Article 4, §2 of the draft regulates the access of the youth to their file held by the public youth protection institution. It is provided that documents from the judicial authorities marked as confidential, as well as documents for which the director of the public youth protection institution decides to refuse access "if the interest of the youth requires it," will not be consultable. In doing so, this draft provision has a direct impact on the youth's right to access the processing of their data carried out by the public youth protection institution, as enshrined in Article 15 of the GDPR.  

16. Any exception to the rights held by the data subjects under the GDPR can only be justified by the reasons set out in Article 23.1 of the GDPR and must comply with the forms prescribed by Article 23.2 of the GDPR; which is not the case for Article 4 of the draft as it is currently written (What is the objective served by the exemption in favor of the documents from the judicial authorities marked as confidential? Is it related to documents from an ongoing judicial investigation or instruction? What is the extent of the limitations provided? What guarantees are in place to limit the risks to the rights and freedoms of the concerned youth? What provisions, if possible, are in place to inform the youth that their file is only partially accessible to them?…).  

17. Furthermore, any exception must also be limited to what is strictly necessary, whether in terms of scope or duration; which is not evident from the provisions in the draft.  

18. Moreover, the first exception provided (documents marked as "confidential" by the judicial authority) may not be necessary as it is potentially already covered by Chapter III of Title I of the LTD concerning limitations on the rights of the data subject in favor of data processing emanating directly or indirectly from intelligence and security services, threat analysis services, police services, judicial authorities, passenger information units, etc. (see Articles 14 and 16 of the LTD targeting, among others, judicial authorities and police services).  

2 Data may be retained for a longer period only for exclusively archival purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research, or for statistical purposes, and this in accordance with Article 89, §1, prioritizing, if possible, the processing of anonymous or even pseudonymized data in this context and provided that technical and organizational measures are implemented to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subjects.
Notice 110/2019 - 6/12  
In this hypothesis, the author of the draft Order will refer in the draft Order to the existing legal provisions providing for the legal guarantees mentioned in Article 23.2 of the GDPR.

19. Regarding the second exception provided for in Article 4, §2 paragraph 2 of the draft, even if the protection of the young person may constitute a legitimate justification (Article 23.1.i of the GDPR) for derogating from their right of access, its modulation must be such that it is limited to achieving the intended purpose; which is currently not the case in the draft Order. In this regard, the Authority recommends that the applicant draw inspiration from what is provided in the law of August 22, 2002, concerning patient rights, which provides for exceptions to the right to information (Article 7) and the right of access (Article 9) of the patient, which serve the same objective of protecting the person concerned. It is stipulated that the derogation from the right to information must be justified by the risk of causing serious harm to the patient's health and not merely by the patient's interest. Furthermore, the derogation from the right to information is conditioned upon the prior consultation by the healthcare professional with another healthcare practitioner, must be documented in writing in the patient's file, and must include specific information to the trusted person designated by the patient. Finally, this derogation must be lifted as soon as the risk of harm is removed. As for the patient's right of access to their medical file, its only limitation, as provided by the law on patient rights, consists of conditioning access to the personal annotations of the physician or to information in the medical file that could cause serious harm to the patient, on the condition that access is made through a healthcare practitioner designated by the patient. In the case of access by the young person to data from their file for which the director of the IPPJ believes that it could cause serious harm to the young person's health, the draft Order could provide that this intermediary be ensured by such a healthcare practitioner designated by the young person and/or the persons exercising parental authority over the young person.

20. Furthermore, the directors of IPPJ could consider requesting, if necessary, the prior opinion of the data protection officer of the public youth protection institution regarding their draft decisions to deny access to a document in the file when access to this document risks causing serious harm to the young person's health, as a specific guarantee for the minors concerned.

21. In conclusion, the Authority recommends that the applicant reformulate the derogation from the right of access provided for in Article 4, §2, paragraph 2 as recommended in the preceding considerations and assess the necessity of the derogation provided for in Article 4, §2, paragraph 1 in draft.

3 Under Article 37.1.a. of the GDPR, any public youth protection institution is required to designate a data protection officer for the processing of personal data it carries out in the exercise of its missions. Several public youth protection institutions may designate the same data protection officer, as stated in Article 37.3 of the GDPR.
Notice 110/2019 - 7/12  
regarding the limitations on the rights of the data subjects already provided for under Chapter III of Title I of the LTD and therefore to adapt it either by referring to the existing legal provisions that provide the legal guarantees referred to in Article 23.2 of the GDPR or by establishing a derogation regime in accordance with the provisions of Article 23 of the GDPR. The Authority refers the applicant to the considerations already expressed on this matter in its opinions 34/2018 of April 11, 20184, 41/2018 of May 23, 20185, and 88/2018 of September 26, 20186.  

22. Article 5 of the draft decree addresses the reasoning behind decisions made by the public youth protection institution within the framework of the draft decree and the cases in which reasoning is not required (serious jeopardy to internal security in the event of communication of the reasoning to the youth).  

23. This Article 5 provides that the public youth protection institution must maintain a register containing the unreasoned decisions, indicating the reasoning for the decision made regarding the youth as well as the reasoning for the decision not to communicate the reasoning of this decision to the youth. According to the draft Article 5, paragraph 5, this register may only be consulted by the managing official, the members of the supervisory commission and the appeals body, and the judges of the Council of State or the judiciary when the dispute submitted to them requires it.  

24. Regarding the derogation of the youth's right to access this register, the Authority refers to its remarks above concerning Article 4, §2. The wording of draft Article 5 must be improved in accordance with the provisions of Article 23.2 of the GDPR.  

25. Several provisions of the draft Decree address the issue of the language used by the public youth institution in its decision-making regarding the youth (art. 6, paragraph 2, art. 19, §2 …) specifying that "if the youth does not master French, all reasonable means shall be employed to enable them to understand the decision and its reasoning." In this regard, the Authority notes that Article 12 of the GDPR imposes on the data controller the obligation to take appropriate measures to provide the information required under the GDPR in a concise, transparent, comprehensible, and easily accessible manner, in clear and plain language.  
 
4 Opinion 34/2018 of April 11, 2018, concerning a draft law establishing the information security committee and amending various laws regarding the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, and more specifically its recitals 36 to 36.  
5 Opinion 41/2018 of May 23, 2018, concerning a draft law containing various financial provisions.  
6 Opinion 88/2018 of September 26, 2018, on the draft decree of the Flemish Government adapting the decrees of the Flemish Government to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, and more specifically its recitals 17 to 31.
Notice 110/2019 - 8/12  
simple, particularly for any information specifically intended for a child. This imposes, according to the Authority, an obligation on public youth protection institutions to communicate this information in a language understood and mastered by the child.

26. Article 19 in draft imposes a specific obligation on the directors of each public youth protection institution to inform the young person upon their admission. According to Article 19, §1, 7° in draft, this obligation includes informing the young person "about their rights regarding personal data processing, particularly in the context of the various registers." The Authority notes the incomplete nature of this wording in light of Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR. The scope of the obligation to inform the data subjects by the data controllers is much broader. Therefore, this draft provision should be usefully supplemented by referencing the aforementioned articles of the GDPR.

27. Articles 48, 58, and 62 of the draft Order address specific registers that public youth protection institutions must maintain. These are registers containing decisions regarding visitation bans or restrictions, information related to isolation measures, as well as sanctions adopted by public youth protection institutions against the young people they care for.

28. According to additional information obtained from the Minister's delegate, these registers all pursue the same purpose: to allow for the oversight of decisions and measures recorded in these registers concerning young people deprived of liberty. In light of the aforementioned criteria for the quality of laws, this purpose must be explicitly clarified in the relevant articles of the draft order.

29. Regarding the categories of data recorded in these registers, considering the pursued purpose, the Authority has no remarks to make except that the notion of identity should be replaced by the types of identification data required, in accordance with the principle of data minimization explained above.

30. Any communication of data originating from a register must be viewed as a form of external use that must be framed and compatible with the purpose for which the register is established. Therefore, the paragraphs of the relevant draft articles concerning third-party accessibility to said registers call for the following remarks:

7 In the preparation of the information document referred to in Article 19, §1, al. 3, 1° in draft, the IPPJ will ensure its completeness concerning the aforementioned articles of the GDPR. In this regard, it follows from point 13 of the WP 260 guidelines of the European Data Protection Committee on transparency under the GDPR, adopted and revised on 11/04/2018, that there is no difference in status between the information to be communicated under paragraph 1 of Articles 13 and 14 and that to be communicated under paragraph 2 of the same articles. All must be communicated to the data subject.
Notice 110/2019 - 9/12  
a. The Authority does not understand why the minister should be able to access these records, given that, a priori, he does not have a functional and operational interest in doing so. In the absence of relevant justification on this matter to be included in the recitals, it will be removed from the list.  
b. The notion of administration must be clarified in that only members of the staff of the General Administration of Youth Aid of the French Community who have inspection powers over public youth protection institutions have a legitimate interest in accessing these records.  
c. It is important to specify that the young person and the young person's lawyer can only access the aforementioned records concerning the mentions related to them; otherwise, the right to data protection of other young people appearing in these records would be violated.  

31. The accessibility to the aforementioned records granted to the General Delegate for Children's Rights as well as to members of the monitoring commission does not raise any remarks, as it stems from Articles 76 and following of the aforementioned decree of January 18, 2018.  

32. The last paragraph of Articles 48, 58, and 62 of the draft decree provides for the annual communication, by the directors of public youth protection institutions, of reports related to the decisions concerned (decisions of prohibition or restriction of visits, isolation measures, sanctions) to the administration of the French Community in charge of youth aid. According to additional information obtained from the Minister's delegate, the purpose pursued is to carry out statistics on the decisions referred to from public youth protection institutions.  

33. Article 89, §1 of the GDPR stipulates that any processing of personal data for statistical purposes must be framed by appropriate guarantees ensuring that technical and organizational measures are in place to ensure compliance with the principle of minimization and that, when statistical purposes can be achieved through subsequent processing that does not allow or no longer allows the identification of the data subjects, this latter method must be applied. In this regard, the Authority takes note of the additional information from the Minister's delegate indicating that the intended statistical purposes will be achieved using anonymous data in the sense that they will no longer allow the identification of the young people in care. The last paragraph of Articles 48, 58, and 62 of the draft should explicitly clarify this. The Authority reminds that the identification of a person does not solely aim at the possibility of retrieving their name and/or address but also at the possibility of identifying them through a process of individualization, correlation, or inference. For further details, the Authority refers to Opinion 05/2014 of the Working Group "Article
Notice 110/2019 - 10/12  
29 » on data protection, predecessor to the European Data Protection Committee, on anonymization techniques.  

34. If the communicated data can be classified as anonymous, the GDPR does not apply to the communication of this data and to the processing that will be done with this data.  

35. If not, this provision should be reformulated. In accordance with the aforementioned criteria for the quality of laws governing the processing of personal data, the author of the draft Order shall explicitly specify in the relevant articles of their draft the statistical purpose pursued, not omitting to concretely specify the subject of the statistics produced.  

36. In the same hypothesis, if it is planned to publish the statistical results, it is necessary to add a provision requiring the Administration, prior to making its statistical results available to the public, to verify the impossibility of identifying the young individuals concerned and, if necessary, to adopt any measures that ensure their anonymity. In this regard, reference is also made to the guidelines 05/2014 of the "Article 29" Working Party on anonymization techniques.  

37. In this same hypothesis, the Authority reminds that if the administration wishes to benefit from exemptions to the rights that young individuals have under the GDPR (right to information, access, right to rectification, right to erasure, etc.) for its data processing for statistical purposes, if their exercise by the young individuals risks seriously hindering or making impossible the statistical research, the provisions of Title 4 of the LTD apply. These provisions impose:  
a. the mandatory designation of a data protection officer since the processing in question may pose a high risk to users (art. 190 LTD) to the extent that it combines two or even three of the criteria established by the European Data Protection Committee to consider a processing of personal data as high risk;  

8 Opinion of the "Article 29" Working Party Opinion 05/2014 on Anonymization Techniques adopted on April 10, 2014, WP216, 0829/14/FR, available at the following address https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp216_fr.pdf  

9 For more information regarding this notion of high risk for the individuals concerned and the criteria for determination, reference is made to point 1.b of the DPIA guide available on the website of the DPA at the following address https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/Guide_AIPD_18012019.pdf as well as to point 3.A of Recommendation 01/2018 of the DPA available at the following address https://www.gegevensbeschermingsautoriteit.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/recommandation_01_2018_0.pdf  
10 Already based on Article 37.1 of the GDPR, the concerned administration is required to designate a data protection officer for the processing of personal data it carries out.
Notice 110/2019 - 11/12  
b. the justification in its register of processing activities, which it must maintain under Article 30 of the GDPR, for the reasons why the exercise of the rights of the data subjects (or some of them) risks making it impossible or seriously hindering statistical research;  
c. Article 194 of the LTD also adds the obligation for the administration to conclude an agreement with public youth protection institutions regulating the collection of data in accordance with Articles 195 and 196 of the LTD, unless the draft Order provides a specific provision prohibiting the administration from any reuse of the data collected through these reports for purposes other than the statistical purposes pursued.  

38. Finally, the Authority draws the Minister's attention to the fact that the processing of personal data carried out by its public youth protection institutions must be considered as high risk for the rights and freedoms of the minors concerned, as they accumulate two or even three of the criteria set out by the European Data Protection Committee. In execution of Articles 35 and following of the GDPR, public youth protection institutions must therefore conduct a data protection impact assessment on their data processing in order to adopt all necessary organizational and technical measures to reduce their risk to an acceptable level.  

39. From a general perspective, the data protection authority also draws the attention of the data controllers (public youth protection institutions and the administration in charge of youth assistance) to the fact that Articles 5.1.f and 32 of the GDPR require them to configure their processing of personal data in such a way as to ensure an appropriate level of security for the processed data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction, or damage, using appropriate technical or organizational measures. For the concrete implementation of these measures, the Authority refers to the recommendation aimed at preventing data breaches and the reference measures that should be respected in the context of any processing of personal data.  

For these reasons,  
The Authority,  

Considers that the draft Order submitted for opinion must be adapted as follows:  
1. Determination of the data controllers for the processing regulated by the draft (cons. 10);  
2. Explicit mention of the purposes of these processing activities (cons. 12, 30 and, where applicable, cons. 37);  
3. Clarification of certain points of Article 4 in draft in accordance with the principle of data minimization (cons. 13);  
4. Mention of the retention period of the file referred to in Article 4 in draft (cons. 14);  
5. Revision of the wording and modalities of the exceptions to the right of access of the young person to their file (art. 4 § 2 in draft) as well as to the register of decisions whose motivations are not communicated (art. 5 in draft) in accordance with considerations 16 to 21;  
6. Reference to Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR at the level of Article 19, §1, 7° in draft (cons. 26);  
7. Specification, at the level of Articles 48, 58, and 62 in draft, of the identification data required instead of the notion of identity (cons. 29);  
8. Determination of the persons who may access the registers referred to in Articles 48, 58, and 62 in draft in accordance with consideration 30;  
9. Clarification, if applicable, of the anonymous nature of the data communicated annually to the administration (cons. 33);  
10. If not, implementation of the required adaptations specified in considerations 35 and 36.  

(signed) An Machtens  
(signed) Alexandra Jaspar  
Acting Administrator  
Director of the Knowledge Center