 

 

 

 

 

1/9 

General Secretariat  
 

Decision n° 05/2021 of 20 May 2021  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Subject: Approval decision of the “Eu Data Protection Code of Conduct for Cloud Service Providers” 

by the General Secretariat of the Belgian Data Protection Authority (AH-2018-0084)  

 

The General Secretariat of the Belgian Data Protection Authority (hereinafter “Belgian DPA”); 

 

Having regard to article 40 of the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (“GDPR”), the Belgian DPA 

shall approve the “EU Data Protection Code of Conduct for Cloud Service Providers” (“Eu Cloud COC” or “Code”) 

submitted by Scope Europe provided that it meets the requirements set out under this Article; 

 

Having regard to the Guidelines 01/2019 on codes of conduct and monitoring bodies (hereinafter “Guidelines 

01/2019”) adopted by the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “EDPB”) on 4 June 2019;  

 

Having regard to Article 20.4 of the “Loi du 3 décembre 2017 portant création de l'Autorité de protection des 

données”; 

 

Having regard to article 12 of the internal rules of procedure of the Belgian DPA;  

 

Considering that in accordance with the articles 40.7, 64.1(b) and 63 GDPR, the Belgian DPA has taken utmost 

account of the Opinion on the draft decision of the Belgian Supervisory Authority regarding the Eu Cloud COC 

adopted by the EDPB on 19 May 2021; 

 

Adopts on 20 May 2021 the following decision: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I. 

Preliminary remarks  
 

1.  The Belgian DPA underlines the importance of codes of conduct as voluntary accountability tools to 

tailor data protection rules to the specificities of the processing of a sector. It also reaffirms its 

commitment to encourage associations and bodies representing a sector in developing codes of 

2/9 

conduct. 

 

2.  In accordance with the cooperation procedure set out in section 8 of the Guidelines 1/2019, the Eu 

Cloud COC was reviewed by the Belgian DPA, as the code of conduct lead Authority, in collaboration 

with two co-reviewing supervisory authorities in accordance with articles 40.5, 55 and Recital 122 of 

the GDPR and Appendix 2 of the Guidelines 1/2019. 

 

3.  As stated in Recital 81 and article 28.5 of the GDPR, adherence of a processor to an approved code of 

conduct may be used as an element by which to demonstrate the sufficient guarantees as referred to 

in article 28.1 and 28.5 GDPR. The approval of this Code cannot be construed as any validation of the 

compliance of the members of the Code itself. As stated in article 41.4 of the GDPR, the provisions of 

the Code and the actions taken by the monitoring body are without prejudice to the prerogatives of 

the supervisory authorities.  

 

II. 

Scope of the code of conduct  

 

 

4.  The Eu Cloud COC aims to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking into account the 

specific features of the cloud computing sector. The primary objective of the Eu Cloud CoC consists of 

concretising the legal requirements of article 28 GDPR and the following relevant related articles of the 

GDPR: art. 5.1, art. 6, art. 27, art. 28.1, art. 28.2, art. 28.3, art. 28.4, art. 28.5, art. 28.9, art. 29, art. 

30.2, art. 30.3, art. 30.4, art. 31, art. 32, art. 33, art. 37, art. 39.1 (b), art. 44, art. 45.1, art. 45 art. 

46, art. 47). 

5.  The Eu Cloud CoC is intended to address all service types of the cloud market (e.g. IaaS, PaaS, SaaS) 

and  creates  a  “baseline  for  implementation  of  GDPR”  for  these  services.  Its  purpose  is  to  provide 

practical guidance and define specific requirements for the cloud service providers (“CSPs”). The Code 

only applies to cloud services where the CSP is acting as a processor. It therefore does not apply to 

“business to consumer” (B2C) services or to any processing activities for which the CSP may act as a 

data controller. 

 

6.  The Eu Cloud CoC is not intended to provide appropriate safeguards for third country data transfers 

pursuant to 46.2 e) of the GDPR. Therefore, adherence to the Code is not intended to be a basis for 

permitting transfers of personal data to third countries as envisaged by article 40.3 GDPR. The Belgian 

DPA stresses, as stated in the code (Section 5.4 of the COC), that customers and CSPs, who will be 

 

 

 

 

 

 

transferring  personal  data  to  a  third  country  outside  the  European  Economic  Area  (“EEA”),  remain 

responsible to assess the individual appropriateness of implemented safeguards according to Chapter V 

of the GDPR. 

3/9 

III. 

Review of the Eu Cloud COC  
 

7.  The review of the Eu Cloud COC led to the conclusion that the Code complies with the requirements set 

out by article 40 of the GDPR, as well as Section 6 of the Guidelines 1/2019 and in particular that the 

code of conduct:  

1.  Meets a particular need of that sector or processing activity  

8.  The  Eu  Cloud  COC  contains  both  strict  requirements  particularizing  the  provisions  of  the  GDPR 

mentioned in the “Scope of the code of conduct” section of the present decision and good practices 

currently followed by the sector. 

 

9.  The Code aims to create comparability between different data processing practices in the cloud industry 

and improves upon the state of the art for data protection in this sector. 

10.  The objective of the Eu Cloud COC is to help CSPs to demonstrate compliance with article 28 GDPR and 

to make it easier and more transparent for customers to analyze whether cloud services are appropriate 

for their use case and in line with article 28.1 and 28.5 GDPR. Article 28.1 GDPR provides that controllers 

shall  use  only  processors  providing  sufficient  guarantees  to  implement  appropriate  technical  and 

organizational measures in such a manner that processing will meet the requirements of the GDPR and 

ensure the protection of the rights of the data subject. Article 28.5 GDPR states that the adherence of 

a  processor  to  an  approved  code  of  conduct  may  be  used  as  an  element  by  which  to  demonstrate 

sufficient guarantees as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 4 of article 28 GDPR.  

2.  Facilitates the effective application of the GDPR 

 

11.  The Eu Cloud COC brings added value to the provisions of the GDPR by providing guidance and imposing 

binding requirements to its member.  

12.  Those guidance and requirements relate to: 

-  The use of sub-processors, including the authorization (general or specific) given by the customer, and 

changes in sub-processors (Code, section 5.3); 

-  Auditing requirements, including the mechanisms and information that a CSP should make available to 

a customer in order to allow them to determine how the CSP complies with its obligations under data 

 

 

 

4/9 

protection law, under its cloud service agreement with the customer and under the Code (Code, section 

5.5);  

-  Data subject rights, in particular to the obligation for the CSP to provide assistance to the customer in 

order to allow data subject rights to be exercised (Code, section 5.7 and section 5.10);  

-  The fact that any adhering CSP, even those not legally obliged to have a DPO, must have at least a 

“data protection point of contact” in order to assist the customer (COC, section 5.9);  

-  The inclusion of termination modalities, including the return or deletion of customer personal data upon 

termination of the cloud service agreement, (Code, section 5.14);  

-  The fact that any CSP participating to the Code must fulfill at least, the security objectives drafted on 

the basis of recognized standards such as ISO 27001, ISO 27701, SOC 2,C5. It must be underlined that 

formal certification against those standards is recommended but not required under the Code, in order 

to account for the interests of small and medium sized CSPs (Code, section 6). If the CSP decides to 

implement  alternative  measures  than  those  established  by  the  aforementioned  standards,  it  shall 

provide reasoning and evidence to the monitoring body why those measures adequately replace the 

“controls” concerned (Code, section 6.1); 

-  The Code’s enhanced transparency requirements. The Code clearly outlines information which must be 

made available to all customers, including on topics on which the GDPR does not impose transparency 

(Code, section 6.3; 7.2.5) 

3.  Specifies the application of the GDPR  

13.  The Code consists of a set of requirements that CSPs have to implement to comply with the Code. 

  

14.  Those  requirements  are  supported  by  a  “controls  catalogue”  helping  to  assess  compliance  with  the 

requirements of the Code. The “controls catalogue” maps the  requirements of the Code to auditable 

elements (“controls”), and also maps requirements of the Code to corresponding provisions of the GDPR 

and  relevant  international  standards,  thus  facilitating  its  application  and  interpretation  and  enabling 

implementation, monitoring and where required auditing. 

 

15.  The “controls” are to be read in conjunction with the “control guidance” which gives advice on how to 

implement the “controls”. The “control guidance”, although not mandatory, compels a CSP which would 

decide  to  implement  alternative  measures  to  be  compliant  with  the  Code,  to  demonstrate  that  the 

alternative measures are not less protective than those being provided by the “control guidance”. 

 

16.  All provisions of the Code and the “controls catalogue” are binding, wherever the provisions make use 

of “shall”, “must” or “will”. Some provisions should be regarded as guidance, setting examples of good 

practices and are denoted by the use of the terms “should” or “may”. 

 
  

 

 

 

 

5/9 

4.  Provide sufficient safeguards  

 

17.  In the course of its review and the approval procedure, the Belgian DPA has not identified any provision 

that could undermine the level of protection provided by the GDPR or any other applicable European 

data protection legislation. The Code also provides for safeguards in this respect: 

-  Regarding the definitions, the Code commits that “any terminology used in this Code, which is defined 

by the GDPR (e.g. personal data, controller, processor, data subject, etc.) shall have the meaning and 

interpretation as defined in accordance with that regulation” (Code, section 2);  

-  Regarding  the  right  to  audit  of  article  28.1(h)  of  the  GDPR,  the  Code  states  that  the  customer  can 

exercise his right to audit at any time and the Code prohibits explicitly CSPs from effectively limiting this 

right  (Code,  section  5.5).  Furthermore,  regarding  the  repartition  of  the  cost  of  audits  between  the 

customer and the CSP, the Code states that “The CSP and the Customer may specify any arrangements 

in relation to the cost allocation for audits in the Cloud Services Agreement, provided that such 

arrangements are reasonable and reflect the realistic cost of the audit, consequently are not excessive 

or prohibitive. In the absence of any arrangements in relation to the costs and cost allocation, the costs 

shall be borne by the party requesting the audit; to the extent CSP is defining those costs, they still 

must not be excessive or prohibitive” (Code, section  5.5.6); 

-  Regarding the right to complaint, the Eu Cloud COC allows customers, any CSPs, and data subjects to 

file a complaint before the monitoring body in case of alleged infringement to the Code. Such complaints 

can also be filed anonymously (Code, section 7.8.2). In addition, the Code establishes that, as a rule, 

such complaints can be submitted free of any costs. Only to prevent manifestly unfounded or excessive 

complaints, the monitoring body may  charge a  fee or refuse to act on the  complaint (Code,  section 

7.8.3.1).  

18.  Finally,  the Code underlines in section 7.3 that: “verified adherence of Cloud Services to the Code does 

not absolve any CSP from having to comply with the GDPR, and/or applicable EU Member State data 

protection law, nor does it protect CSPs from possible interventions or actions by supervisory authorities 

in the course of their supervision and enforcement activities with regards to the adherent Cloud Service. 

GDPR and applicable Member State Law will always prevail over the Code”.  

5.  Provides mechanisms which allow for effective oversight  

 

19.  A  code  of  conduct  requires  the  implementation  of  suitable  mechanisms  to  ensure  that  its  rules  are 

appropriately monitored and that efficient and meaningful enforcement measures are put in place to 

ensure  full  compliance.  A  code  of  conduct  specifically  needs  to  identify  and  propose  structures  and 

procedures which provide for effective monitoring and enforcement of infringements.  

20.  The Eu Cloud COC ensures that its rules will be followed through the following mechanisms:  

6/9 

 

 

- 

- 

- 

5.1) Monitoring of the Code (initial, recurring and ad-hoc); 

5.2) Complaint mechanism; and 

5.3) Sanctions.  

5.1  Monitoring of the Code 

 

21.  The monitoring of the accredited monitoring body is based on an evidence-based conformity assessment 

(interviews and document reviews) performed by the monitoring body. If the evidence is insufficient to 

demonstrate  compliance,  appears  to  be  false,  or  is  inconsistent,  the  monitoring  body  shall  request 

additional information and can request substantiation by independent reports (Code, section 7.5.6).  

 

22.  Three cumulative types of monitoring are carried out by the monitoring body: “initial”, “recurring” and 

“ad hoc”.  

5.1.1  “Initial” monitoring of the Code  

 

23.  The monitoring body will carry out an “initial” assessment which will examine if the service of a CSP 

which signs up to the Code through a “Declaration of Adherence” complies with the Code. 

  

24.  It is important to underline that the monitoring body will not assert a cloud service’s compliance with 

the Code, as long as the monitoring body is not convincingly satisfied by the provided evidence that the 

cloud service demonstrates compliance. 

 

25.  The Code requires an evidence-based conformity assessment for all CSPs and every CSP will be subject 

to checks by the monitoring body. However, the Code supports three different methods of checking 

conformity of the CSPs which translate into three different levels of compliance marks (Code, section 

7.6). The different levels of compliance are related to the level of substantiation being provided by the 

CSPs to the monitoring body. It is up to the CSP to indicate the level of compliance it seeks. The final 

decision as to whether the CSP meets the requirement of the sought-after level rests on the monitoring 

body (Code, section 7.6.3).  Those three different methods to demonstrate compliance with the Code 

have been put in place in order to supports SME providers who have the internal know-how to provide 

cloud services and high levels of data protection, but who do not necessarily have a readily available 

budget for third party certifications and audits; such CSPs can use the first level of compliance. At the 

same time, the Code also empowers CSPs to leverage the authority of credible already undergone third-

party certifications and audits at levels two and three.  

 

26.  Those three methods of checking conformity are the following: 

- 

Level 1 - the CSP has to perform an internal review of its conformity itself, by documenting the measures 

it has implemented in order to prove compliance with the requirements of the Code. It then provides 

 

7/9 

this information to the monitoring body, along with a formal declaration that its services adhere to the 

requirements of the Code. The monitoring body actively verifies that the cloud service complies with 

the Code, on the basis of the provided evidence. It assesses the completeness of the evidence as well 

as its credibility: if the evidence provided appears to be unusual or any doubts arise, the monitoring 

body  will  ask  follow-up  questions,  and  the  CSP  will  not  be  published  as  adhering  to  the  Code  until 

appropriate clarifications have been obtained (Code, section 7.6.2.1);  

 

- 

Level 2 - In addition to the evidence requirements of the first level a CSP can choose to additionally 

provide complementary evidence of compliance from independent third-parties, such as certificates and 

audit reports which the  CSP has obtained, possibly even before applying to  join the Code. While no 

certificate  or  audit  report  currently  covers  all  requirements  or  “controls”  of  the  Code,  it  is  possible 

through  the  “controls  catalogue”  for  the  monitoring  body  to  determine  which  “controls”  have  been 

externally  and  independently  audited.  While  the  monitoring  body  will  still  conduct  a  thorough  and 

independent  verification  of  compliance  with  all  requirements  of  the  Code,  all  provided  evidence 

originating from the third party such as certificates and audit reports provide additional assurance depth 

scrutiny. For the avoidance of doubt: this does not prevent the monitoring body to perform a full in-

depth assessment, at all times (Code, section 7.6.2.2); 

- 

Level 3 - A third level of assurance is attained when compliance with every part of the Code (i.e. to 

every  “control”,  not  just  a  set  of  “controls”  as  under  the  second  level)  is  fully  demonstrated  by 

independent third-party certificates and audits, which the CSP has undergone with regard to the cloud 

service  declared  adherent  and  which  are  based  upon  internationally  recognized  standards.  In  other 

words, evidence of compliance is provided and checked comprehensively by the CSP, by the third party, 

and by the monitoring body. This level does not either prevent the monitoring body to perform a full 

in-depth assessment, at all times (Code, section 7.6.2.3).  

 

27.  Those three different levels of conformity checks reflect in three different “compliance marks”. For the 

sake of transparency and clarity for customers and data subjects, the “compliance marks” shall be used 

in combination with a unique “Verification- ID” assigned by the monitoring body and where technically 

possible, the “compliance mark” shall link to the public register of the Code; otherwise the CSP shall 

provide at least a footnote explaining the safeguards entailed by the respective “compliance mark” and 

a reference to the public register (Code, section 7.6.4).  

5.1.2  “Recurring” monitoring of the Code 

 

28.  The monitoring body will conduct at least annual checks of all adhering CSPs taking random samples of 

“controls” to ensure that the asserted compliance information is still complete. Each individual annual 

revision does not cover all requirements of the Code; however, over successive reviews, all requirements 

of  the  Code  will  be  covered.  Notwithstanding  the  aforementioned,  the  adherent  cloud  service  must 

comply with all requirements of the Code at all times and the monitoring body may  at all times perform 

a full assessment (Code, section 7.7.1).  

8/9 

29.  CSPs are required to update information in relation to their services provided to the monitoring body to 

ensure  that  the  information  available  for  the  monitoring  body  always  remains  fully  up  to  date  and 

accurate. Not submitting the compulsory annual, renewal of a declaration of adherence is considered 

as infringement of the Code to the extent the CSP has not terminated its adherence consistent with the 

provisions of this Code and the procedures established by the Monitoring Body (Code, section 7.7.1). 

 

 

 

5.1.3  “Ad hoc” monitoring of the Code  

30.  The compliance shall also be reviewed on an “ad-hoc” basis by the monitoring body if  “any significant 

changes occur to adherent Cloud Services” or “in reaction to a Customer complaint, an adverse media 

report or anonymous feedback about a CSP which has declared a Cloud Service adherent to the Code” 

(Code, section 7.7.1).  

 

 

5.2 

Complaints mechanism 

 

31.  If the monitoring body receives complaints (for instance, by  third parties, customers, competing CSPs, 

data  subjects),  the  complaints  panel,  an  independent  board  within  the  monitoring  body  that  is  not 

bound by instructions of any kind, decides on the respective merits of the complaint. Such complaint 

can also be filed anonymously. In case a complaint is found to be valid, this panel can impose sanctions 

on to CSP (Code, section 7.8.2).  

5.3 

Sanctions  

 

 

 

 

 

32.  The monitoring body can impose sanctions on the  code members. Those sanctions range from non-

public but formal reprimand to temporary or permanent revocation from the Code. The monitoring body 

commits to inform the supervisory authority about any related actions taken (Code, section 7.9). 

  

33.  The Belgian DPA reminds that sanctions imposed by the monitoring body are without prejudice to the 

sanctions from competent authorities as foreseen in case of breaches of the GDPR and/or other legal 

acts in accordance 41.4 of the GDPR.  

6.  Has designated a monitoring body 

9/9 

34.  A draft code also needs to identify an appropriate body which has at its disposal mechanisms to enable 

that body to provide for the effective monitoring of compliance with the code 

35.  The Code and the Code owner have appointed “Scope Europe” as monitoring body in accordance with 

article 41 of the GDPR. 

 

36.  This  monitoring  body  will  have  to  be  accredited  by  the  Belgian  DPA  and  therefore  will  have  to 

demonstrate that it fulfills the requirements imposed by article 41 of the GDPR. This monitoring body 

will be in charge of ensuring compliance of the members of the Code with the provisions of the Eu Cloud 

COC and taking actions including sanctions in case of infringement to the provisions of the Eu Cloud 

COC.  If and to the extent the Code or a “control” leaves room for interpretation, e.g. where it requires 

reasonable  assistance,  the  Monitoring  Body  shall  provide  the  final  conclusive  decision,  whether  the 

Code’s requirement is being complied with (Code, section 7.5.3).  

 
 

DECIDES AS FOLLOWS: 

37.  Taking into account the aforementioned considerations the Belgian DPA decides that the Eu Cloud COC 

submitted by Scope Europe fulfills the requirement set out in article 40 of the GDPR and the Guidelines 

1/2019 and hereby approves the Eu Cloud COC.  

 

38.  This Decision will be published on the Belgian DPA’s website and the Code will be communicated to the 

EDPB in accordance with article 40.11 of the GDPR.  

 

 

 

David Stevens 

 

Director of the General Secretariat 

 

 

 

 

 

 

