 

Registered
Booking.com B.V.
The board of directors
attn [CONFIDENTIAL]
PO Box 1639
1000 BP Amsterdam

 

 

Date
December 10, 2020
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 
 

 
Subject
Decision to impose an administrative fine
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authoritypersonal data.nl

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Dear [CONFIDENTIAL],
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP) has decided to ask Booking.com B.V. (Booking) an administrative
to impose a fine of € 475,000. The AP is of the opinion that Booking Article 33, first paragraph, of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) from January 16, 2019 to February 6, 2019
has violated, because Booking has failed to enter a personal data breach
to be reported to the AP 72 hours after becoming aware of this.
 
The decision is explained in more detail below. Chapter 1 contains an introduction and Chapter 2 describes it
legal framework. In Chapter 3, the AP assesses its authority, the processing responsibility
and the violation. The (amount of the) administrative fine is elaborated in chapter 4 and chapter 5
contains the operative part and the remedy clause.
 
 
 

 

Attachment(s) 1

 

1



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

1 Introduction

1.1 Legal entities involved
 
Booking is a private company with its registered office at Herengracht 597 (1017 CE) in
Amsterdam. Booking was founded on June 23, 1997 and is in the register of the Chamber of Commerce
registered under number 31047344. Booking offers an online platform on which Trip Providers,
such as accommodations, their products and services for reservation and users of the
platform can then reserve it.
Booking is, through various Dutch and English legal entities, an indirect 100% subsidiary of aan de
US NASDAQ Stock Market listed Booking Holdings Inc. The latter apparently had
its 2019 public and consolidated financial statements reported sales of $15.1 billion (EUR
13,727,410,000) and a net result of USD 4.9 billion (EUR 4,454,590,000).
 
1.2 Reason for the investigation
 
On February 7, 2019, Booking reported a personal data breach to the AP
(data breach) done. An unknown third party had gained access to a Booking system
by posing as an employee of Booking at several accommodations. Here are the
personal data of several parties involved, who make hotel reservations via the platform of Booking
had done compromised. Because Booking has indicated that in the notification form
Booking had discovered the personal data breach on January 10, 2019, the AP is one
started an investigation into the compliance of Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR by Booking.
 
1.3 Process flow
 
In a letter dated 12 February 2019, the AP sent Booking a request for information. This request is
also sent by email on 26 February 2019.
 
On February 27, 2019, Booking has notified the above breach in connection with
personal data supplemented.
 
By letter dated 1 March 2019, Booking responded in writing to the request for information dated 12 February
2019.
 
By letter dated 6 March 2019, the AP sent Booking an additional information request.
 
By letter dated March 13, 2010, Booking responded in writing to the request dated March 6, 2019.
 
By email dated March 19, 2019, the DPA sent Booking an additional request for information.
 

 

 

2/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
By email dated March 19, 2019, Booking provided the requested information and an additional document to the
AP sent.
 
Due to the cross-border nature of the case, the AP has the other supervisory authority
authorities of the present case on March 19, 2019, which has also been established
that the AP acts as lead regulator now that Booking's head office is located in
The Netherlands.
 
In a letter dated 16 July 2019, the AP submitted an intention to enforce and the investigation report
Booking and Booking was given the opportunity to express its views.
By letter dated September 3, 2019, Booking has expressed its view in writing on this intention and
the underlying report.
 
On October 23, 2020, the AP submitted a draft decision to the data subject in accordance with Article 60 of the GDPR
supervisory authorities. No objections have been lodged against this.
 

2. Legal framework

2.1 Scope GDPR
 
Pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, this Regulation applies to the whole or in part
automated processing, as well as to the processing of personal data contained in a file
included or intended to be included therein.
 
Pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, this regulation applies to the processing of
personal data in the context of the activities of an establishment of a
controller or a processor in the Union, whether or not the processing takes place in the Union
does not take place.
 
Pursuant to Article 4 of the GDPR, for the purposes of this Regulation:
1. “Personal Data”: any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person
(“the data subject”); […].
2. “Processing”: an operation or set of operations relating to personal data or
a set of personal data, whether or not carried out by automated processes […].
7. “Controller”: a […] legal entity […] that, alone or jointly with others, carries out the purpose
of and determines the means for the processing of personal data; […].
12. “Personal Data Breach” means a security breach that occurs accidentally or on
unlawfully leads to the destruction, loss, alteration or unauthorized disclosure of
or unauthorized access to data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed;

 

 

3/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
23. “Cross-border processing”: […] b) processing of personal data in the context of the
activities of one establishment of a controller […], resulting in more than one
Member State data subjects are or are likely to be materially affected.
 
2.2 Notification of personal data breach
 
Pursuant to Article 4(12) of the GDPR, a “personal data breach” means
means a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction,
the loss, alteration or unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed data.
 
Pursuant to Article 33(1) of the GDPR, a controller submits a breach
relating to personal data without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72
hours after he has become aware of it, to the supervisory authority competent in accordance with Article 55
authority, unless the infringement is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms
of natural persons (…). In case the notification to the supervisor is not made within 72 hours
takes place, it shall be accompanied by a justification for the delay.
 
2.3 Competence leading supervisory authority
 
Pursuant to Article 55, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, each supervisory authority has the competence to
territory of its Member State to carry out the tasks assigned to it in accordance with this Regulation
and to exercise the powers conferred on it in accordance with this Regulation.
 
Pursuant to Article 56, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, the supervisory authority of the principal place of business or the
any establishment of the controller (…) without prejudice to Article 55, to act competently
as the lead supervisory authority for cross-border processing by those
controller (…) in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 60.
 

3. Review

3.1 Competence AP
 
In the present case, it concerns a processing of personal data by Booking
data subjects have been substantially affected in more than one Member State.1 As a result, there is
cross-border processing within the meaning of Article 4, part 23 sub b, of the GDPR. The AP states
established that it is competent to act as a lead supervisory authority pursuant to Article 56 of the GDPR
authority now that Booking's headquarters is located in Amsterdam.
 

                                                                        
1 See section 3.4.2 for this.

 

 

4/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
3.2 Processing of personal data
 
According to Article 4(1) of the GDPR, personal data is any information about a
identified or identifiable natural person (“the data subject”). If becomes identifiable
considered a natural person who can be identified directly or indirectly, for example by
one or more elements characteristic of the physical or physiological identity of that natural
person.
 
Article 4(2) of the GDPR defines the concept of processing as an operation of personal data,
such as collecting, recording, storing, retrieving, consulting or using it.
 
Booking offers an online reservation platform where so-called "Trip Providers", such as
accommodation providers and other providers, available accommodations, flights, rental cars and
offer day trips. Via the platform, visitors can, among other things, go to overnight addresses and
search for day trips, after which they can be reserved via the platform.
When making a reservation via the Booking platform, the person concerned collects personal data such as
contact, reservation and payment details entered. Booking then provides the details of the
reservation to the Trip Provider via the Extranet of Booking. 2 The Booking Extranet is an online
administrative dashboard with secure access. In addition to access to reservation data in the Extranet,
the Trip Providers have access to all information provided on the Trip Provider page at Booking.com
displayed, including the payment options and policies.
To gain access to the Extranet, the Trip Provider must provide a username, password and 'two factor
authentication pin code'. After the Trip Provider has logged in to the Extranet, they can access the
consult necessary reservation data of the guests.
 
Booking's Security Team, which was called in as a result of the breach, has determined that a
unknown third party has gained access to the Booking Extranet. The findings of the
Security Team are recorded in a so-called Security Incident Summary report. From it in the file
recorded Security Incident Summary report dated February 28, 2019 shows that, among other things, the following
guest data stored in the Extranet has been compromised: first name, last name,
address, telephone number, check-in and check-out date, total price, reservation number, price per night,
any correspondence between accommodation and guest and with regard to those involved the
credit card details of which 97 with the 'card verification code'.3
 
The reported personal data breach of Booking therefore concerns, among other things, names,
address details, telephone numbers and credit card details of hotel guests. Now this information concerns about
identified or identifiable natural persons, the aforementioned data can be regarded as
personal data as stipulated in Article 4, first part, of the GDPR.
 

                                                                        
2 File document 1: notification of personal data breach 7-2-2019, p3.
3 File document 9, Responses from Booking to request for information, Annex 5.

 

 

5/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP has established that processing of personal data takes place via the Extranet: the data
are recorded in the Extranet, stored and further made accessible. The set of operations in the
Extranet is a processing of personal data as referred to in Article 4, part two, of the GDPR.
 
3.3 Controller
 
In the context of the question of who can be held responsible for committing an offence
of the GDPR, it should be determined who can be regarded as the controller
as referred to in Article 4(7) of the GDPR. It is important to determine who is the target of and
the means of processing personal data – in this case the processing of personal data
of data subjects who use the Booking platform.
 
The AP is of the opinion that Booking determines the purpose and means for the processing of the
personal data relating to reservations made via Booking.com and
subsequently processed via the Booking Extranet. The AP explains this as follows.
 
Booking's Privacy Statement, as posted on its website, states which
personal data are processed by Booking as well as the reasons why and the way in which this is done
are processed. The Privacy Statement states, among other things, that Booking shares data with third parties,
including the “Trip Provider”, or the Trip Provider. That the data will be shared with the travel provider
shared via the Extranet is apparent from, among other things, the notification of the breach on 7 February 2019 and the
view of Booking.4 The Privacy Statement also explicitly states that the processing of the above
said personal data is done by Booking (Herengracht 597, 1017 CE Amsterdam,
Netherlands).5
 
In addition, Booking determines the details of the security of the Extranet by making arrangements
security measures for access control such as the “two factor authentication” (of which the code
is also generated by Booking).6 In addition, Booking has, among other security measures,
set up a data breach reporting procedure that pertains to incidents concerning the Extranet.7
 
Based on the aforementioned, the AP therefore concludes that Booking determines the purpose and means for
the processing of personal data relating to reservations made via the platform of
Booking are made through the Extranet (a system used by Booking and
managed) are processed.
 
Booking has argued in its opinion on the one hand that Booking is the controller
for the customer data processed in relation to its platform.8 On the other hand, Booking

                                                                        
4 File document 20: research report, marginals 17 et seq., opinion marginals 2.3 et seq.
5 Under the heading “Who is responsible for the processing of personal data via Booking.com and how to reach us?”.
6 Opinion, marginal 2.5.
7 Opinion, marginals 2.6, 3.2 and 3.3.
8 Opinion, marginal number 2.2.

 

 

6/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
that the Trip Provider acts as the controller for the customer data sent via the Extranet
are made available and that Booking does not consider itself responsible for
data processing activities of the Trip Providers.9
 
That Trip Providers can also access the Extranet (physically) and process personal data therein,
does not alter the fact that Booking is the controller for the Extranet. And thus also
responsible for what happens to the personal data in the Extranet. The argument from
Booking therefore fails.
That Booking also sees itself as the controller for the personal data that is processed via the
Extranet, is also apparent from the fact that Booking committed the infringement in connection with
reported personal data to the AP on February 7, 2019 and also states in its opinion Booking
be the controller for the customer data processed through its platform.10
 
Based on the foregoing, the AP determines that Booking is the controller in the sense
of Article 4, part seven, of the GDPR.
 
3.4 Reporting Infringement Violation
 
3.4.1 Introduction
Article 33(1) of the GDPR stipulates that if a personal data breach has occurred
occurred, the controller will do so without undue delay and, if possible,
to the (…) competent supervisory authority no later than 72 hours after becoming aware of it
unless the personal data breach is unlikely to pose a risk
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons. In case the notification to the supervisor is not
takes place within 72 hours, it shall be accompanied by a justification for the delay.
 
In this section, the DPA will first outline the facts and then assess whether Booking has committed the infringement
should have reported (in a timely manner) to the supervisory authority.
 
3.4.2 Facts
 
January 9, 2019
On January 9, 2019, a property 11(I) in the United Arab Emirates reports to a
[CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking by email that a guest complained about being emailed
was approached by an unknown party posing as an employee of the property with the
notification that their credit card did not work and whether the guest provided his date of birth or other bank card details
wanted to give up so that a reserved overnight stay could be paid in advance. The accommodation manager
asks in his email message to Booking to investigate the incident now the property from the
Extranet does not have customer email addresses and he thinks that is probably the case

                                                                        
9 Opinion, marginal number 2.3.
10 Opinion, marginal number 2.2.
11 In other words: a Trip Provider.

 

 

7/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
a (data) leak at Booking since the unknown party was aware of the, via the platform of
Booking made, reservation at the property.
 
Email dated January 9, 2019 6:00 PM
“Good Afternoon […],
We received a complaint from a guest stating that he had provided his personal information and credit card information to
a 'stranger' posing as a Reservations employee of our property […]. In the 1st attachment a person by the name of
[CONFIDENTIAL] had directly email the guest (from a Hotmail account) requesting his credit card and personal info to
pay for his booking. We are not sure if the guest had sent the details about it. We got to know when someone from B.com called
the property to check if anyone had sent the email. We contacted the guest via the phone number listed in the reservation
form – he forwarded the [CONFIDENTIAL] email to us. As we do not get guest email address from the extranet, the issue
here is likely to be from B.com. We don't know how this [CONFIDENTIAL] managed to get hold of the guest email and
that he had made a booking at our property from B.com. Can you review and share the outcome with us. Guest has the
perception and understanding that we had leaked the information which is not true. Our brand confidence is at stake here,
so is B.com.
 
Kind regards […]"
 
The e-mail that the person concerned had received from the unknown third party was attached to the aforementioned e-mail
received. This email shows that the unknown third party is using the reservation details
attempts to obtain personal and/or payment data from the data subject.
 
Email dated January 8, 2019 10:32 PM
“Dear Sir
My name is […] and this email is regarding your booking in out hotel. We got your email address from your office actually
sir your bank card is not working. Ever time we attempted the payment it on terminal it is asking for card holder date of
birth. Kindly provide us with your date of birth or a different card no so we can take the initial deposit of 1 night in order to
guarantee the booking rate for 1st night is 450 emarati dirhams.
 
Many thanks
[…]
reservation department”
 
January 13, 2019
On January 13, 2019, the same accommodation (I) reports to the aforementioned [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking that
a similar complaint has been received from another guest. An unknown party had intervened – this time
by telephone – made known to the guest on behalf of Booking where an attempt was made to charge their credit cards
obtain personal data.
 
Email dated January 13, 2019 10:18 am
“Subject: RE: [External Fraud] / Leaked Guest Information / URGENT
Hi […]

 

 

8/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
We receive a complaint from another guest…this time someone claiming to be from B.com (UK number) called the guest
and was trying to get his cc and personal details for 1 night charge.
I am not sure if the guest provided his details, but he contacted us which we clarified the same (similar clarification as our
1st case). We had requested the guest to call B.com instead.
We had taken precautions by changing all our logins (for those who has access) last week Thursday.
Booking No. […]
 
Regards
[…] [CONFIDENTIAL]”
 
January 20, 2019
On January 20, 2019, Property I reports that a third guest has complained about being on the phone
approached with a request to provide his credit card information. The accommodation manager indicates
the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking that given the seriousness of the situation will become the issue
scaled up to headquarters.
 
Email dated January 20, 2019 5:14 PM
“Subject: RE: [External] Fraud / Leaked Guest Information /URGENT
[…]
Hi […]
We receive another complaint from a guest about someone calling them to get cc details. Below is his booking – we have
advised him to contact B.com.
As it looks serious now, we are escalating the issue to our head office in Singapore.
 
Kind regards,
[…] [CONFIDENTIAL]”
 
Also on January 20, 2019, a second accommodation reports to Booking that there is “an
alarming situation with Booking.com reservations”. Various guests who had reserved via Booking,
have been contacted by telephone with the request to provide their credit card details. Also this accommodation
asks Booking's [CONFIDENTIAL] to investigate.
 
Email dated January 20, 2019 11:35 am
“Good morning […]
We have an alarming situation with Booking.com reservations. The last couple of days, we have guests reserved through
booking.com, contacting us to inform us that someone from our in-house reservations department called them to get their
credit card details for their reservations. The person who calls the guests knows their reservation details (arrival/departure
etc.). Attached and below you can find more details about this matter.
We have already changed the [CONFIDENTIAL] password as well as my own password.
 
Can you please look into this?
 

 

 

9/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Thank you,
[…]
[CONFIDENTIAL]"
 
Booking has a policy that suspicions and reports of incidents must be reported immediately
forwarded to the Security Team of Booking.12
The [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking that were notified by the accommodations of the
fraudulent acts by an unknown third party have the Security Team of Booking on
January 31, 2019 informed.
On February 4, 2019, Booking's Security Team completed and concluded its first investigation
that Booking's Privacy Team should be informed. The research findings of the
Security Team are documented in the aforementioned February 28 Security Incident Summary Report
2019.13
 
This investigation by the Security Team revealed that 40 accommodations in the United Arab
Emirates have become victims of social engineering fraud involving the personal data of
possibly 4109 data subjects have been compromised. An unknown third party has turned up
pretended to be a Booking employee over the phone to obtain the username, password and two-
factor authentication code (“2FA”) from the accommodations. With this information, the third party
party to log in to the Extranet of Booking, which contains reservation data of guests.
The Security Team has determined that December 19, 2018 is the start date of the security incident
been. The persons involved came from Europe (including Great Britain,
France, Ireland, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands) as well as from other parts of the world (including South
Africa, America, Canada and Bahrain).
 
The personal data concerned included first name, last name, address, telephone number,
check-in and check-out date, total price, reservation number, price per night, any correspondence
between accommodation and guest and credit card details with regard to 283 data subjects, of which 97 with the
'card verification code'.
 
On February 4, 2019, the Security Team informed Booking's Privacy Team about the
outcomes of the investigation. All parties involved were also informed by Booking on 4 February 2019
brought.14
 
Booking's Privacy Team determined on February 6, 2019 that there had been a data breach that
had to be reported to the AP.
 

                                                                        
12 See file document 15, Response to request for information regarding internal policy documents on data breaches.
13 File document 9, Responses from Booking to request for information, Annex 5.
14 Notification form and opinion, marginal number 4.4 under d.

 

 

10/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
On February 7, 2019, Booking submitted a notification to the AP as referred to in Article 33, paragraph 1, of the
GDPR.15
 
3.4.3 Assessment
Article 33(1) of the GDPR stipulates that if a personal data breach has occurred
occurred, the controller will do so without undue delay and, if possible,
to the (…) competent supervisory authority no later than 72 hours after becoming aware of it
unless the personal data breach is unlikely to pose a risk
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
Before the notification is made, the controller must therefore first be informed
assesses whether there has been a personal data breach. Then it should be
assessed whether the breach poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
A personal data breach
As the DPA has established in paragraph 3.4.2, an unknown third party has had access to it
Extranet of Booking and thus gained unauthorized access to the data processed by Booking
data related to guest reservations at accommodations. Booking does not dispute that either
there was a personal data breach. The AP thus establishes that there is
of a personal data breach within the meaning of Article 4(12) of the GDPR.
 
Risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons
After the unauthorized acquisition of the aforementioned personal data, the unknown third party
then attempted to obtain credit card information from using this personal data
guests who had booked through Booking's online platform. With this, the AP not only establishes that
it is likely that the personal data breach poses a risk to rights
and freedoms of natural persons but also that this risk has materialized now the unknown
third party has contacted many, if not hundreds, of data subjects to try them on
to steal credit card information on the basis of improper grounds. Due to the violation of the
confidentiality of the data was not only a risk of financial damage but also of
identity fraud or any other disadvantage. The AP therefore establishes that the infringement is related to
personal data posed a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
Reporting to the supervisory authority competent in accordance with Article 55
It has been established in paragraph 3.3 that Booking is the controller. In section 3.1, the AP
established that it is competent to act as a leader pursuant to Article 56 of the GDPR
supervisory authority now that Booking's headquarters is located in Amsterdam. Booking has
reported the breach to the AP on January 7, 2019. Booking has therefore reported this to the in
competent authority in accordance with Article 55 of the GDPR in this case.
 

                                                                        
15 File document 1, Notification of personal data breach 7-2-2019. P5.

 

 

11/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Notification no later than 72 hours after the controller becomes aware of a breach related to
personal data
The Guidance on Personal Data Breach Notifications under Regulation
2016/67916 (hereinafter: Guidelines), prepared by the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party (hereinafter:
WP29), contain an explanation of the notification obligation(s) in the GDPR and provide guidance on how to do this in various
types of infringements must be acted upon.
 
When exactly can a controller be considered to have become aware of
a particular breach depends on the circumstances of the specific breach. According to the WP29
a controller shall be deemed to have become aware of a related breach
with personal data when he has a reasonable degree of certainty that a security incident has occurred
occurred that led to the compromise of personal data.
 
The DPA is of the opinion that Booking was aware of the infringement in connection with
personal data and considers the following to this end.
 
On January 9, 2019, the [CONFIDENTIAL] from Booking received a first signal, via an email
from a Trip Provider in the United Arab Emirates (accommodation I) that is included with the
the person involved and the Trip Provider had a serious suspicion that there was a data breach. The
The person concerned was approached via e-mail on 8 January 2019 by a third party (who remained unknown).
was with the reservation made via the Booking platform and on the basis of that
reservation details tried to obtain more personal data with which supposedly a payment of
an overnight stay could be arranged. From the conscious email dated January 8, 2019, which is
included in the file, it appears that it also contained a PDF file with the reservation details. This
pdf file was not submitted by Booking and therefore not included in the file.
 
In the opinion of the AP, the aforementioned incident should have been handled by (the [CONFIDENTIAL] of) Booking
will now be forwarded to the Security Team of Booking for further investigation into the email
matter contained the exact reservation details of the person concerned and it was also established that the booking was made through the
platform of Booking was created. All the more so now that the Trip Provider had already come to the conclusion that
there had to be a security incident and on the basis of the data available to him
had already made an initial assessment. This is also apparent from the information given by the accommodation manager
subject of the email: “[External] Fraud / Leaked Guest Information/ URGENT”. The Security Team had
an exploratory investigation could already be started at that time.
On January 13, 2019, (the same [CONFIDENTIAL] of) Booking received a second signal from
said Trip Provider. The data subject in question was asked for his personal data by telephone
by someone posing as an employee of Booking who was aware of the
the reservation made via the Booking platform. The accommodation manager has in his e-mail
e-mail to the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking expressly stated that it considers the incident equivalent

                                                                        
16 Guidance on personal data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679, Working Party
Data Protection Article 29, last revised and adopted on February 6, 2018, 18/EN WP250rev.01.

 

 

12/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
to the earlier incident and again believed that there must have been a data breach on the part of
booking.
 
The AP is of the opinion that Booking is deemed to have knowledge of the
breach in connection with personal data, because Booking has a reasonable
degree of certainty that a security incident has occurred that led to the compromise of
personal data processed by Booking. The Trip Provider's accommodation manager
after all, had already concluded that there must have been a security incident with regard to
the Extranet, where guest personal data had been compromised.
 
Given the alarming situation, Booking should have immediately reported the incident to the Security Team
of Booking so that an investigation into the scope of the infringement could be carried out, which, however, was done by
Booking until January 31, 2019 failed.
 
Based on the foregoing, the term of 72
hours for reporting a breach to the AP started on January 13, 2019. As a result
Booking should have reported the personal data breach to the DPA by 16 January 2019 at the latest
report. It has been established that Booking did not make this notification until February 7, 2019, therefore 22 days too late.
 
This also applies if the date 20 January 2019, the date on which next
accommodation I also located another Trip Provider (accommodation II) in the United Arab Emirates
Emirates has reported to Booking's [CONFIDENTIAL] with similar incidents. Also in this one
e-mail notifications, the subject is garishly capitalized: **SECURITY
BREACH**. In that case, the personal data breach would be delayed by 15 days
supervisory authority have been reported.
 
3.4.4 View of Booking and response by AP
 
Infringement notification
In its view, Booking has primarily taken the position that there is no question of a
violation since it only took note on 4 February 2019, after completion of the internal investigation
of the breach after which it is timely and without unreasonable delay within 72 hours of becoming aware of it
reported, which according to Booking is in line with Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR.
 
The AP does not follow this point of view. As can be seen from the foregoing, the AP has determined that Booking on 13
became aware of the infringement in January 2019. It follows that Booking committed the infringement in connection with
has not reported personal data in accordance with the provisions of Article 33, first paragraph, of the AVG.
 
Accommodation notifications
With regard to the signal from accommodation I on January 9, 2019, Booking has its view
argued that the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking had considered at the time that no
there was reason to scale up the report to Booking's Security Team, because the

 

 

13/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
the person concerned had been approached by e-mail. Booking states that email addresses in the Extranet are
hashed and cannot be extracted from it. Furthermore, Booking argues that the affected
accommodation and the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking would have come to a joint conclusion
that “it was probably not an incident at Booking”.
 
With regard to the latter, the AP notes that in addition to the fact that no substantiation has been provided for this
in the opinion, it is established that the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking has not acted according to its own
protocol of Booking, whereby any suspicion of an incident must be immediately passed on to the
Booking security team. The AP believes that despite the fact that e-mail addresses are
hashed in the Extranet, the aforementioned incident should have been forwarded to Security by Booking
Team. After all, the fact that the e-mail in question contained the exact reservation details of the person concerned and
the fact that the booking was made through Booking's platform had the [CONFIDENTIAL] of
Booking must alert and induce further action.
 
With regard to the incident of January 13, 2019, Booking argued that the [CONFIDENTIAL] in
issue did not see any direct similarities with the previous incident, so not to a reasonable degree
it could be stated with certainty that a security incident had occurred at Booking.
 
However, the AP is of the opinion that the fact that the (accommodation manager of the) Trip Provider already had
considered that there was an equivalent incident and that the security incident had to be made
have with the Extranet, for which Booking is the controller, that makes Booking on that
knew with a reasonable degree of certainty – and therefore had knowledge – that an infringement was taking place
occurred in connection with personal data. Also in this case were the exact reservation details
known to an unknown third party who falsely pretended to be an employee
from Booking.com. At this point, Booking had reasonable assurance of the security incident
where personal data had been compromised. It was highly certain that these data matter
a platform used by Booking for the benefit of its business activities had been obtained, it now appears
the e-mail correspondence according to the Trip Provider and the data subjects in question could be excluded
that a security incident had occurred on their side.
 
Violation of internal duty to report
Booking has further argued that it cannot be held against Booking that the procedure for
reporting security incidents, which means that security incidents are reported by the Trip Providers through the
so-called “Partner Portal” must be reported to the Security Team of Booking, by the
accommodations in question17 has been violated. According to Booking, violating that reporting obligation and the
fact that the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking did not immediately escalate to Booking as
company are challenged. Booking pointed to a decision by the Hungarian
privacy regulator, who would have ruled that negligence from only one part of the
organization cannot be enforced against the entire organization if appropriate measures were taken
affected.18
                                                                        
17 In this case, the accommodations in the United Arab Emirates.
18 Penalty decision Hungarian National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information of 21 May 2019, NAIH/2019/3854.

 

 

14/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
The AP states first and foremost that Booking, as the controller, has the obligation to inform each
alarming signal to investigate a possible security breach
personal data, so that action can be taken in a timely manner and in line with the provisions of the GDPR if there are any
a personal data breach has occurred. According to the AP, this is separate from any
private law agreements that Booking may have made with a third party on that point, such as in
in the present case the relevant Trip Providers. From paragraph 5.1 of the
“Data Incident Response Policy” also shows that all suspicions of incidents, even if they pass
“third party service providers” as the Trip Providers mentioned have been reported to Booking, must immediately
are forwarded to the Security Team of Booking:

“Prompt Reporting
All (suspected) Data Incidents must immediately be reported to the Booking.com security team (“Security”). This
includes Data Incidents notified to Booking.com from any third party service providers or business partners or
other individuals. (…)”.

 
On 9, 13 and 20 January 2019, various data incidents were reported by the accommodations to
(the [CONFIDENTIAL] of) Booking, which, however, has not led to the – in its own proceedings
recorded - required notification thereof to the Security Team. Already on January 13, 2019, the
[CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking aware of the breach, despite the fact that the Security Team was only on 31
notified in January 2019.
 
Insofar as Booking has an appeal with reference to the decision of the Hungarian regulator
want to do on the principle of equality, the AP notes that this case is not only about an infringement
of a completely different order, namely a breach of the confidentiality of personal data
the same organizational unit (of a government body) and not a case of “social engineering”
where there is a form of fraud, but also that the AP in that decision has a different opinion of the
supervisor then reads has been outlined by Booking. The fact that in that case the notification was made too late
an infringement as referred to in Article 33, first paragraph, of the AVG because an employee was late
is continued, contrary to what Booking suggests, the organization in question is indeed through the
Hungarian regulator.
 
Personal privacy risk
Booking has furthermore argued that the investigation report wrongly includes a risk to the personal
privacy has been adopted without making an analysis of the terms and conditions implemented by Booking
security measures aimed at protecting privacy and removing
adverse consequences and has given a number of examples.19
 

                                                                        
19 Examples mentioned: if a data breach occurs, this is generally limited to contact details, without e-mail
email addresses, and reservation dates; credit card information is stored according to PCI DSS standards; customers are informed
about social engineering and other forms of fraud; data subjects were informed immediately after the data breach was discovered
and advised and Booking has indicated that it will compensate all damage suffered.

 

 

15/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP does not follow the latter position of Booking. As soon as personal data, as in this case, is added to
end up with an unauthorized person and have been viewed, there is already a risk to rights
and freedoms of natural persons. This risk has also manifested itself in the present case
now that the data subjects had been approached by an unknown third party who unlawfully disposed of the personal data
of those involved. That Booking subsequently promised to cover any financial damage
compensation does not detract from the fact that the personal data has ended up in the wrong hands. It
the risk of any consequences of the infringement has not thereby been removed.
 
Notification within 72 hours
Booking has further argued that making a notification within 72 hours as referred to in Article 33,
first paragraph of the GDPR is not always possible. It can take specialized security teams for weeks or more
months to connect “data points” and conclude that a pattern of facts is indeed a
data breach that must be reported. Furthermore, it would be incorrect and inconsistent with the
AVG if the AP would expect Booking to generally take only three days to get a
conduct investigations and become aware of a personal data breach. In addition
according to Booking, the WP29 explicitly states in its Guidelines that it may take a while before
a controller can determine the extent of the breaches and the
controller can better prepare a meaningful report in which several, strongly related
similar violations are combined rather than reporting each violation separately. Finally has
Booking argued that the investigation report erroneously considers that Booking has no
has given valid reasons for the (alleged) violation of the 72-hour period. In the notification of
February 7, 2019, clear reasons are given, based on the thorough investigation by Booking,
whereby Booking reiterates that it primarily takes the position that notification has been made within 72 hours
after becoming aware of the personal data breach.
 
The AP is considering the following in this regard.
The AP endorses the position that an investigation into the scope and precise merits of an infringement
may take longer than 72 hours. Because it is not always possible to have all of them
necessary information about a breach enabling a notification to be made that complies with all
requirements laid down in Article 33, third paragraph, of the GDPR, the possibility to do a
notification in steps included in the GDPR. This possibility is in Article 33, fourth paragraph, of the GDPR
captured. This does not alter the fact that the notification of the infringement pursuant to Article 33(1) of the
AVG must take place within the legally prescribed period of 72 hours. As in section 3.3.3
already noted, Booking should be deemed to have become aware of the
personal data breach. That the infringement pursuant to Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR
should have been reported, it was then also clear. Booking has taken too long in this case
waited before making the notification prescribed in Article 33, first paragraph, of the AVG. The thorough
research to which Booking refers in no way justifies the delay in the aforementioned (initial)
notification, which therefore constitutes an unreasonable delay as referred to in Article 33, first paragraph, of the
AVG.

 

 

16/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Meaningful notification
With regard to what has been argued by Booking with regard to the preparation of a meaningful
notification in which several similar infringements are reported together, the AP is considering that
the point in the present case is that Booking was already aware of the infringement on 13 January 2019 and
should have made the – initial or otherwise – notification in a timely manner. That there would be several on top of each other here
seeming infringements that, according to Booking, could be packaged in one meaningful report, the AP considers
to what has been considered above, in section 3.4.3 – not relevant.
 
Justification delayed notification
Booking has argued that outside the Guidelines there are no instructions that indicate with
what arguments a delayed notification can be justified and that the AP is a new standard
cannot be applied retroactively. Moreover, the AP could have asked for the delay
to explain in more detail.
 
The AP considers that there is no retroactive application of a new one
norm. The regulation included in the GDPR on this point is clear: when there is a breach of
in connection with personal data, it must be processed without unreasonable delay, and if possible, no later than 72
be reported to the supervisory authority hours after becoming aware of it. The Guidelines give to it
interpretation of the AP judgment for compliance with the reporting obligation(s) included in the GDPR
of infringements; they can therefore by no means be assessed as a new standard. By the way, it is all
time on the path of the controller to a report that cannot be made in time,
provide adequate justification.
 
Practical implications AP judgment
In its opinion, Booking has also expressed its concerns about what it considers to be the practical implications of
the opinion of the AP in the investigation report.20 The strict explanation mentioned therein brings according
Booking entails that all potential security incidents, where there is a chance that
personal data is compromised, must be reported within 72 hours and that the Security
Team every complaint that comes to Booking - regardless of the way and content - must be
to research. In addition to an unreasonable and unrealistic administrative burden, this would also
unreasonable and unrealistic financial burden.21 [CONFIDENTIAL]. If all individual
complaints should be investigated immediately, as the AP advocates, would be considerably more
manpower than now. Such unreasonable organizational measures, with accompanying
disproportionate implementation costs go against the idea behind the security obligation of
Article 32 of the GDPR, according to Booking.
 

                                                                        
20 In paragraph 5 of the opinion.
21 [CONFIDENTIAL]

 

 

17/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP assumes that the GDPR prescribes which obligations Booking has to fulfill in its capacity as
controller must comply. Pursuant to Article 32 of the GDPR, a processing
the responsible party is obliged to take all appropriate and organizational measures to mitigate the risk
to ensure an appropriate level of security: the ability to detect a breach in a timely manner, to
catch and report should be considered an essential part of these measures.22
According to the AP, it does not follow from the investigation report that every potential security incident would
must be reported and that any complaint received by Booking should be reported by the Security Team
be investigated. As soon as a controller becomes aware of a security
incident or has been made aware of a possible infringement by another source, the
controller to investigate whether there has been a reportable breach.23 From the “Data
Incident Response Policy” shows that Booking has set up its policy in such a way that suspicions of and
reports of suspected security incidents should be immediately scaled up for assessment
to the security team. The AP is of the opinion that this did not happen in the present case
at the expense and risk of Booking. In doing so, the AP once again points to the situation that emerges from the various
reports from the accommodations, virtually no other conclusion was possible than that this was the case
of a substantial reportable breach.
 
Obvious error in report
Booking has argued that the investigation report in paragraph 26 erroneously dates February 2, 2019
mentions on which the Security Team of Booking recorded its findings, but that date
not mentioned anywhere else in the documents. The AP assumes that this is an apparent
clerical error now no clue can be found in the documents for the fact that the
Security Team would have presented its findings on February 2, 2019.
 
Superfluously
Although this is not under discussion in this case, Booking has indicated large in its opinion
value data security and immediate action on data breaches. She means generously
to meet and even exceed the expectations of Article 34 of the GDPR by data subjects
inform about data breaches even when it is unlikely that a major risk to the rights and
freedoms of those involved. The AP welcomes such actions, but emphasizes that this is Booking
does not relieve you of the other obligations included in the GDPR, such as the ones in Article 33, first paragraph, of the
GDPR laid down reporting obligation.
 
3.4.5 Conclusion
In view of the foregoing, the AP is of the opinion that Booking article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR from 16
January 2019 through February 6, 2019, as Booking breached the
has not reported personal data to the AP in time, without unreasonable delay.
 
                                                                        
22 See Guidelines p. 14/15.
23 See the WP29 Guidelines on this in detail.

 

 

18/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

4. Fine

4.1 Introduction
 
Due to the violation established above, the AP uses its authority to
to impose a fine on Booking on the basis of Article 58, second paragraph, preamble and under i and Article 83, fourth
paragraph, of the GDPR, read in conjunction with Article 14, third paragraph, of the UAVG. The AP uses the
Fining Policy Rules 2019 (hereinafter: Fining Policy Rules).24
 
In the following, the AP will first briefly explain the fine system, followed by the motivation
of the fine in the present case.
 
4.2 Fining Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019 (Fining Policy Rules 2019)
 
Pursuant to Article 58, second paragraph, opening words and under i and Article 83, fourth paragraph, of the GDPR, read in
connection with Article 14, third paragraph, of the UAVG, the AP is authorized to notify Booking in the event of a
to impose an administrative fine of up to € 10,000,000 in violation of article 33, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, or
up to 2% of the total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, whichever is higher.
 
The AP has established Fining Policy Rules regarding the implementation of the aforementioned power to
imposing an administrative fine, including determining the amount thereof.25
 
Pursuant to Article 2, under 2.1, of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the provisions regarding violation
of which the AP can impose an administrative fine not exceeding € 10,000,000 or, for
a company, up to 2% of the total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, if this figure
is higher, classified in Annex 1 as Category I, Category II or Category III.
 
In Appendix 1, Article 33(1) of the GDPR is classified in category III.
 
Pursuant to Article 2, under 2.3, the AP determines the basic fine for violations classified in category III
within the following fine range: €300,000 and €750,000 and a basic fine of €525,000.
 
Pursuant to Article 6, the AP determines the amount of the fine by increasing the amount of the basic fine (to
at most the maximum of the bandwidth of the fine category linked to a violation) or
down (to at least the minimum of that bandwidth). The base fine is
increased or decreased depending on the extent to which the factors referred to in Article 7 are used
give rise.
 
Pursuant to Article 7, without prejudice to Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the General Administrative Law Act, the AP

                                                                        
24 Stct. 2019, 14586, March 14, 2019.
25 Stct. 2019, 14586, March 14, 2019.

 

 

19/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
(Awb) take into account the factors derived from Article 83, second paragraph, of the GDPR, in the
Policy rules referred to under a to k:
a. the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the
processing in question as well as the number of data subjects affected and the extent of the harm suffered by them
injury;
b. the intentional or negligent nature of the breach;
c. the measures taken by the controller […] to mitigate the losses suffered by data subjects
limit damage;
d. the extent to which the controller […] is responsible in view of the technical and
organizational measures he has implemented in accordance with Articles 25 and 32 of the GDPR;
e. previous relevant breaches by the controller […];
f. the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and
limit the possible negative consequences thereof;
g. the categories of personal data affected by the breach;
h. the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the breach, in particular whether, and
if so, to what extent, the controller […] has notified the breach;
i. compliance with the measures referred to in Article 58, second paragraph, of the GDPR, insofar as they are earlier
in respect of the controller […] in question in relation to the same
matter have been taken;
j. adherence to approved codes of conduct in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR or of
approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42 of the GDPR; and
k. any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial gains made, or losses avoided, which may or may not result directly from the breach
result.
 
Pursuant to Article 9 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP, when setting the fine,
taking into account the financial circumstances of the offender. In case of reduced or
insufficient capacity of the offender, the AP can further moderate the fine to be imposed, if,
after application of article 8.1 of the policy rules, determination of a fine within the fine range
of the next lower category would, in its opinion, nevertheless lead to a disproportionately high fine.
 
4.3 Fine amount
 
4.3.1. Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement
Pursuant to Article 7, preamble and under a, of the Fining Policy Rules, the AP takes into account the nature, the
seriousness and duration of the infringement. In assessing this, the AP takes into account, among other things, the nature and size
or the purpose of the processing as well as the number of data subjects affected and the scope of the processing by them
damages suffered.
 
The protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is a fundamental right.
Pursuant to Article 8(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 16,
Everyone has the right to, paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).

 

 

20/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
protection of his personal data. The principles and rules regarding the protection of
natural persons when processing their personal data must comply with
their fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular their right to protection
personal data. The GDPR aims to contribute to the creation of an area of freedom,
security and justice and of an economic union, as well as to economic and social progress, the
strengthening and convergence of economies within the internal market and the well-being of natural
persons. The processing of personal data must serve people. The right to
protection of personal data is not absolute, but must be considered in relation
to its function in society and must, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, against others
fundamental rights are considered. Any processing of personal data must be fair and lawful
to happen. The personal data must be adequate, relevant and limited to
what is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. Personal data must be
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security and confidentiality of that data,
also to prevent unauthorized access to or the unauthorized use of personal data and
the equipment used for processing.
 
Reporting breaches should be seen as a means of ensuring compliance with related rules
improve the protection of personal data. If a breach related to
personal data takes place or has taken place, this may result in physical, material or
immaterial damage to natural persons or any other economic or social disadvantage
the person in question. Therefore, the controller should, as soon as he becomes aware of
a personal data breach to the supervisory authority without delay and if possible within 72 hours
notify you of the personal data breach. The supervisor is involved in this
to properly perform its tasks and powers, as laid down in the GDPR.
 
Not only did Booking fail to promptly notify the personal data breach,
but on several occasions, namely on January 9, 13 and 20, 2019, while immediate action had
may be expected, inaction, resulting in a (very) unreasonably delayed notification
the AP. It has also turned out that Booking, instead of making a notification in steps, is consciously doing this
has chosen to first conduct a thorough investigation before making the required report
the supervisory authority. This is not in line with the regulation as laid down in the GDPR.
 
The investigation conducted by Booking's Security Team has shown that possibly 4109
stakeholders are affected. These were hotel guests, who booked hotel stays via the Booking platform,
at 40 different accommodations. By committing “social
engineering” fraud, in addition to name and address details and data regarding hotel reservations, also credit card
data to unauthorized third parties. This is sensitive data that is in the hands of
unauthorized persons can lead to financial or other disadvantage.
 
Given the nature of the personal data, the number of personal data, the number of data subjects affected,
the duration of the violation as well as the importance of timely reporting to the supervisor within 72

 

 

21/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Intentional or negligent nature of the infringement (culpability)

 
hours, in the opinion of the AP there is a serious violation, but the AP sees none in this case
reason to increase or decrease the basic fine amount.
 
4.3.2
Pursuant to Section 5:46(2) of the Awb, when imposing an administrative fine, the AP
take into account the extent to which this can be attributed to the offender. Pursuant to Article 7(b)
of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP takes into account the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement.
 
Article 33, paragraph 1, of the GDPR prescribes that a personal data breach cannot be committed without
unreasonable delay must be reported and, if possible, no later than 72 hours after the
controller has taken note of this. There is a reporting obligation as such in the Netherlands
since 1 January 2016, when this standard was introduced in the Personal Data Protection Act
(Wbp).26
The AP takes a position with regard to the knowledge that a standard addressee, such as Booking in this case, of the
applicable laws and regulations is deemed to have, on the point of view based on te
market parties bear their own responsibility to comply with the law.27
The AP has also provided ample information to market parties about the applicable laws and regulations, so that
it can be assumed that Booking was also aware of this. In addition, in the media extensively
paid attention to the obligation to report data breaches.
 
From the legal framework set out above in conjunction with the applicable guidelines of the
WP29, which Booking could have become aware of before the infringement, follows in the opinion of the
AP sufficiently clear that Booking should have reported the breach to the AP in time and that this was done without
unreasonable delay, but in any event should have taken place no later than 72 hours after January 13, 2019.
Moreover, the notification to the AP could have been made conditionally, in the sense that the notification
could be added later. This option is expressly provided in the GDPR.
If doubt had arisen about the scope of the commandment, then, also according to settled case law, te
apply that may be obtained from a professional and multinational market party such as Booking
is required to inform itself properly or to be informed about the restrictions to which it is subject
behaviors are subject, so that she could have geared her behavior to the
scope of that commandment.28
 
In the AP's opinion, it does not exculpate Booking as an independent bearer of rights and obligations
a [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking has violated Booking's own protocol that
prescribes that any suspicion of an incident be immediately forwarded to the Security Team for assessment.
This is attributable to Booking.
 

                                                                        
26 In Article 34a, first paragraph, of the Wbp.
27 Cf. CBb 25 June 2013, ECLI:NL:CBB:2013:4, r.o. 2.3, CBb 25 January 2017, ECLI:NL:CBB:2017:14, r.o. 5.2, CBb March 8, 2017,
ECLI:NL:CBB:2017:91, r.o. 6.
28 Cf. CBb 22 February 2012, ECLI:NL:CBB:2012:BV6713, r.o. 4.3, CBb 19 September 2016, ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:290, r.o. 8.6., CBb 19
September 2016, ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:372, r.o. 6.3.

 

 

22/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

Damage mitigation measures

Booking reported 22 days late. The AP considers this culpable. However, the AP sees no reason
to determine the basic amount of the fine under Article 7(b) of the Fining Policy Rules 2019
increase or decrease.
 
4.3.3
Pursuant to Article 7, under c, of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP takes into account the
measures taken by the controller to mitigate the damage suffered by the data subject
to limit.
 
Booking has stated in its opinion that it has various concrete remedial actions
taken to limit any damage to those involved. For example, Booking has informed those involved
and advised on taking mitigation measures. Booking has also prepared itself
declares to compensate any damage (suffered or to be suffered) by those involved. Finally has
Booking notified the affected accommodations immediately and alerts on the platform
Booking posted.
 
The AP is of the opinion that although Booking failed to report the breach in time to the
supervisor, it is to Booking's credit that it has taken the aforementioned measures and is prepared
declared to compensate for any damage. The fact that Booking has ultimately acted energetically on this point
occurred, as a result of which the harmful consequences for those involved are most likely limited
remained, the AP takes into account when determining the fine amount.
 
In view of the measures taken by Booking in response to the infringement to mitigate the damage
to limit those involved, the AP sees reason to set the basic amount of the fine under Article 7,
under c of the Fining Policy Rules 2019 to be reduced by € 50,000.
 
4.3.4
Furthermore, the AP sees no reason to increase the basic amount of the fine on the basis of the other provisions in Article 7 of the
Fining Policy Rules 2019, insofar as applicable in the present case,
to increase or decrease.
 
The AP sets the fine amount for violation of Article 33, first paragraph, of the AVG in view of the provisions in Article
7 of the GDPR fixed at € 475,000.
 
4.3.5
Booking has a primary view with regard to the imposition of an administrative fine
argued that imposing an administrative fine would be disproportionate. By Booking is there
referred to fines imposed by the
Lithuanian, Hungarian and Hamburg Authority.29 Booking takes the position that in the context of

View of Booking and response AP

Other circumstances

                                                                        
29 Paragraph 9.2, under a, of the opinion.

 

 

23/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
the idea of harmonization should be equal fines for similar offenses within Europe
imposed.
 
There are currently no common starting points at European level for the calculation of
agreed fines. As a result, the AP independently applies the set by it
Fining policy rules for the calculation of fine amounts. Moreover, the AP assesses this case on its own merits
own merits and thus to the specific facts and circumstances of this case. It goes without saying
that they differ from case to case and are therefore not comparable. Finally, the booking
fining decisions of other privacy regulators put forward in its opinion
has come through the so-called consistency mechanism, as laid down in Chapter 7 of the GDPR, and is
the AP is thus already not bound by those decisions and not obliged to in the present one
to impose a fine of the same amount.
 
Booking has also argued that imposing an administrative fine would be contrary to the
lex certa principle, because clear guidelines from the AP and the European Committee for
Data protection for motivating a delayed notification of a data breach is missing.
 
The AP also does not share this position of Booking and refers to what has been said in paragraphs 3.4.4 and
4.3.2 of this decision has been considered.
 
Finally, Booking has argued (more) in the alternative that if the AP nevertheless decides to impose a fine
lay, this on the basis of article 6 jo. 8.1 of the Penalty Policy Rules should be reduced to the
lowest fine in category II.
 
With regard to the nature, seriousness and duration of the violation, Booking has argued in short that the
preventive and corrective measures taken by Booking the number of people affected and the
limited the extent of the damage.
 
Referring to section 4.3.1, the AP sees no reason to refrain from it on this basis
imposing an administrative fine or reducing the amount of the fine.
 
With regard to the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement, Booking has argued that the
violation does not follow from any intent or negligence on the part of Booking and refers to the technical
and organizational measures taken to prevent social engineering incidents and
to limit consequences.
  
The AP rejects this position. As stated in section 4.3.2, the AP is of the opinion that
there is a negligence that can be attributed to Booking. The AP sees no reason in this
to increase or decrease the basic fine amount.
 

 

 

24/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
With regard to the measures taken to limit the damage, Booking states that the technical and
organizational measures it has put in place are appropriate and may even meet the requirements of the GDPR
surpass.
 
As discussed above in section 4.3.3, the AP sees reason for this
to reduce the basic fine.
 
With regard to the degree of responsibility in view of the conditions imposed by Booking on the basis of Articles 25 and
32 of the GDPR, the technical and organizational measures taken by Booking have argued that the
Booking's systems and organization are set up in such a way that the principles of data protection
can be effectively implemented, with Booking reiterating that it is considering the impact
measures and the nature of the incident cannot be held liable for the data breach and the
alleged violation.
 
The AP does not share this point of view. A professional party such as Booking may, partly in view of the nature and the
extent of the processing, it is expected that it fully adheres to the applicable standards
verified and complied with. As previously considered in paragraph 4.3.2 of this decision, Booking is fully
responsible for the violation. That is why the AP sees no reason to fine this either
to lower.
 
With regard to previous relevant breaches of the GDPR, Booking has argued that it has no previous
has received messages from the AP about alleged violations of Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR.
 
The AP does not see why Booking's position should lead to a reduction in the
basic fine amount. The fact that the AP Booking has not previously written for an identical
violation does not lead to the determination that a reduction of the fine is eligible.
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
With regard to the cooperation between Booking and the AP in order to prevent the alleged violation
remedy and limit the possible negative consequences thereof, Booking has argued that it
has fully cooperated with the AP by answering all questions in a timely manner and, if requested by the
AP had asked for a further explanation of the delay in reporting, this explanation would be
datum.
 
The AP does not see this as a reason to reduce the fine amount. The AP is of the opinion that the
cooperation of Booking has not gone beyond its legal obligation to comply with Article 33,
first paragraph of the GDPR. Booking has not cooperated with the AP in a special way.
 
With regard to the other factors, Booking has argued in short that the data does not contain any
relate to special categories of personal data or a vulnerable group of persons,
Booking has been fully transparent to those involved and the AP and the data breach has been reported to the AP
reported. Finally, Booking argued that if it had made its notification to the AP earlier, this

 

 

25/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
would not have led to other measures on the part of Booking or further limitation of the risks for the
privacy of data subjects. None of those involved suffered any harm
by the time of the notification, according to Booking.
 
The AP does not follow Booking's view in this regard either. Despite the fact that the infringement, as far as we
know, has not affected special personal data, Booking has independent data subjects
informed and the (financial) consequences for those involved have remained limited, the AP sees through the seriousness
of the violation and the culpability of Booking is no reason to further increase the fine
to lower. The AP refers to paragraphs 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 for the reasons for this.
 
4.3.6 Proportionality and statutory maximum fine
Finally, the AP assesses whether the
application of its policy for determining the amount of the fine given the circumstances of the
specific case, does not lead to a disproportionate outcome. Applying the principle of proportionality
means, according to the Fining Policy Rules 2019, that the AP, if necessary, when setting the fine
takes into account the financial circumstances of the offender.
 
In view of all that has been considered above, the AP is of the opinion that the amount of the fine to be imposed is not up to
leads to a disproportionate outcome. In addition, the present decision was made through the
AGV prescribed coherence mechanism. The other (concerned) supervisors in Europe have
endorsed the opinion of the AP.
 
The AP sees no reason to assume that Booking will be fined €475,000 given its
financial position could not bear.
 
4.4 Conclusion
 
The AP sets the total fine amount at € 475,000.
 

 

 

 

 

26/27



 

Date
December 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

5. Operative part

Fine
 
The AP imposes an administrative fine on Booking for violation of Article 33, first paragraph, of the AVG
in the amount of € 475,000 (in words: four hundred and seventy-five thousand euros).30
 
 

Yours faithfully,
Authority for Personal Data,

 
 
 
drs. C.E. Mur
Board member
 
 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can within six weeks from the date of sending it
decides to submit a notice of objection digitally or on paper to the Dutch Data Protection Authority.
Pursuant to Article 38 of the UAVG, submitting a notice of objection suspends the operation of the
decision to impose the administrative fine.
To submit a digital objection, see www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl, under the heading Objection
against a decision, at the bottom of the page under the heading Contact with the Dutch Data Protection Authority.
The address for submission on paper is: Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague.
Mention 'Awb objection' on the envelope and put 'bezwaarschrift' in the title of your letter.
Write in your notice of objection at least:
- your name and address;
- the date of your objection;
- the reference referred to in this letter (case number); or enclose a copy of this decision;
- the reason(s) why you disagree with this decision;
- your signature.
 
 
 
 

                                                                        
30 The AP will hand over the aforementioned claim to the Central Judicial Collection Agency (CJIB).
 

 

 

27/27

