DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
My Media World Ltd t/a Brand New Tube (‘BNT’) in accordance with Article 
58(2)(b) of the UK General Data Protection Regulation in respect of 
certain alleged infringements of the UK GDPR.  

Case Summary 

It is our understanding that on or around 14 August 2022, an 
unauthorised third party gained access to BNT’s systems and exfiltrated 
the personal data of 345,000 UK Data Subjects. BNT have been unable to 
determine the specific cause of the incident advising on separate 
occasions that a server misconfiguration and a DDoS attack were 
responsible for the access to their systems.  

The nature of the data affected included the names, email addresses and 
passwords of 345,000 website users.  
The proposed reprimand 

The Commissioner has provisionally decided to issue a reprimand to BNT 
in respect of the following alleged infringements of the UK GDPR: 

• Article 32 (1) which states:

“taking into account the state of the art, the costs of
implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of
processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for
the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and the
processor shall implement appropriate technical and organisational
measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk.”

• Article 32 (1) (d) which states that organisations should have:

“a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the
effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for ensuring
the security of the processing”

The reasons for the Commissioner’s provisional findings are set out below. 

• BNT were unable to provide evidence that they were conducting

regular penetration testing or vulnerability scanning on their
systems. They advised that a third party was responsible for

1 

providing this service, but could not confirm when scans were last 
performed, or what their methodology or use was. NCSC guidance1 
recommends monthly vulnerability scans, and provides guidance on 
the type of scans on offer, including web application scans.  
 

•  BNT did not have appropriate organisational measures in place to 
ensure the confidentiality and integrity of their systems. BNT have 
not provided any evidence to show the technical security measures 
in place at the time of the incident, or that they were even aware 
what these measures were. BNT relied on the assurances of third 
parties and employees without proof of any contracts or oversight. 
Ultimately, BNT have failed to evidence how the personal data for 
which they were responsible was stored and protected. ICO 
guidance2 provides a checklist for organisations to consider when 
implementing their technical security strategy, which includes 
recommendations that organisations ensure data processors also 
implement appropriate measures.  

Provisional decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, the Commissioner 
has provisionally decided to issue a reprimand to BNT  in relation to the 
alleged infringements of Article 32 (1) and 32 (1) (d) of the UK GDPR set 
out above.  
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that BNT should take steps to ensure it is 
compliant with the UK GDPR. With particular reference to Article 32 (1) 
and 32 (1) (d) of the UK GDPR, the following steps are recommended: 
 

1.  In order to ensure compliance with Article 32 (1), BNT should 

ensure they have appropriate contracts in place with any third party 
providers which set out the roles and responsibilities of each party. 
 

2.  In order to ensure compliance with Article 32 (1), BNT should 
ensure they are keeping accurate records of their processing 
activities, and the security measures they are implementing. 
 

3.  In order to ensure compliance with Article 32 (1) (d). BNT should 

ensure they are carrying out regular scans and testing of their 

1 Vulnerability Scanning Tools and Services - NCSC.GOV.UK 
2 A guide to data security | ICO 

 

 

2 

environment, and are recording outcome and addressing any issues 
promptly.  

3 

 

 

