                                                                  
                                                   

 

Press release from the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments from 28.07.2020

 
 
 
 

 

 

Judgment of the European Court of Justice

for the transfer of personal data to third countries ("Schrems II")

strengthens data protection for EU citizens

 
The European Court of Justice (ECJ) in its judgment of July 16, 2020 (Case C-
311/18) Decision 2016/1250 of the European Commission on the transmission of personal
of personal data to the USA (Privacy Shield) was declared ineffective. At the same time he
CJEU found that Commission Decision 2010/87/EC on standard procedures
contract clauses (Standard Contractual Clauses - SCC) continue to apply.
 
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state
With this judgment, the (DSK) sees the basic data protection rights of the citizens
strengthened by the European Union. For the transmission of personal data in the
According to an initial assessment by the DSK, the judgment in the USA and other third countries is as follows
Effects:
 

1. The transfer of personal data to the USA on the basis of the Privacy
Shield is illegal and must be discontinued immediately. The ECJ has the
vacy shield declared invalid because the US law evaluated by the ECJ no
Offers a level of protection essentially equivalent to that in the EU. the US law,
to which the ECJ referred relates e.g. B. the intelligence services
exercise powers under Section 702 FISA and Executive Order 12 333.

 

 

2. For a transfer of personal data to the USA and other third countries
the existing standard contractual clauses of the European Commission can
generally continue to be used. However, the ECJ emphasized the responsibility of
controller and the recipient to assess whether the rights of the data subjects
sons in third countries enjoy an equivalent level of protection as in the Union. Only then
it can be decided whether the guarantees from the standard contractual clauses in the
practice can be realized. If this is not the case, it should be checked
what additional measures to ensure a level of protection in the EU
essentially equivalent levels of protection can be taken. The right of
However, third countries may not impose these additional protective measures in a way
harm, which thwarts their actual effect. According to the judgment of the ECJ
for data transfers to the USA standard contractual clauses without additional measures
basically did not exclude.
 

3. The assessments of the judgment also apply to other guarantees under Article 46 GDPR
Application as binding internal data protection regulations ("binding corporate rules" -
BCR), on the basis of which a transfer of personal data to the USA
and other third countries. Therefore, for data transmissions on the
Based on BCR supplementary measures are agreed, provided the rights of
data subjects in the third country do not have an equivalent level of protection as in the Union

1


 
 

                                                                  
                                                   

 

enjoy. These measures must also essentially
can guarantee an equivalent level of data protection as in the EU.
 

4. The transfer of personal data from the EU to the US and others
Third countries according to Article 49 GDPR are still permitted, provided that the conditions of the
Article 49 GDPR are met in individual cases. For the application and interpretation of these
The European Data Protection Board has published guidelines in writing.

 

5. Those responsible who continue to transfer personal data to the USA or other third parties
countries wish to transmit must immediately check whether they are doing so under the
mentioned conditions can do. The ECJ has not set a transitional or grace period
cleared.

 
Even if the ECJ in its decision at various points gives priority to
response of the transmitter of personal data and the recipient stressed,
he also gives the supervisory authorities a key role in enforcing the GDPR
and other decisions about data transfers to third countries. the
German supervisory authorities will discuss their approach with their colleagues
vote in the European Data Protection Board and in the future also on specific
advise on difficult issues.
 
After the judgment of the ECJ, the European Data Protection Board, after a first
Statement in its meeting on July 23, 2020 key questions and answers (FAQ) on
Implementation of the judgment published. The DSK endorses the positioning of the European
schen data protection committee. The English text of the FAQ is available on the Euro-
European Data Protection Board at https://edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2020/european-
data-protection-board-publishes-faq-document-cjeu-judgment-c-31118-schrems_de
fin
the.
 
 

 

2

