1/5

Procedure No.: PS/00170/2019

RESOLUTION: R/00395/2019

In procedure PS/00170/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to Don A.A.A., given the complaint filed by Doña B.B.B. Y
Mrs. C.C.C. and by virtue of the following,

FACTS

FIRST: Doña C.C.C. (*hereinafter, claimant 1) and Mrs. B.B.B. (*the claimant
2) on November 26, 2018 they filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, motivated by the treatment of data carried out to
through cameras of a video surveillance system whose alleged owner is identified
like A.A.A. with (hereinafter the claimed) installed in ***CALLE.1 Cangas-
Pontevedra.

The grounds on which the claim(s) are based are “a device has been placed
of video-surveillance that is obtaining images without just cause on a road
of public transit” (folio nº 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (photographs No. 1 and 2) that

allow you to observe some type of device installed on a wall.

SECOND: On 01/09/19, the claim(s) was TRANSFERRED to
the denounced party so that he could plead in Law on the device in question,
appearing as "notified" in the computer system of this body.

THIRD: On June 6, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to submit this
warning procedure PS/00170/2019. This agreement was notified to
denounced.

FOURTH: On 06/01/2019, it is verified that no
any allegation in this regard.

FIFTH: On 10/02/19, the database of this
agency, without any allegation recorded in this regard.

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 11/26/18 a claim was filed through which it transfers
The main fact is the following:

“A video-surveillance device has been placed that is obtaining

images without just cause on a public transit road” (folio nº 1).
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

Second. It is identified as the main responsible Mr. A.A.A., being
identified in the written complaint by the other party.

Third. Based on the evidence provided (photographs Annex I), the installation
of some type of device that could be disproportionately placed.

Fourth: There is no evidence of any allegation in relation to the facts that are the subject of the complaint, since
made by the accused party.

Fifth. There is no evidence that the mandatory information poster is available in a visible area,
indicating that it is a video-monitored area.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim of date of entry into
this Agency 11/26/18 through which the main fact is transferred:

“A video-surveillance device has been placed that is obtaining

images without just cause on a public transit road” (folio nº 1).

The facts described above may affect the

content of art. 5 letter c) RGPD, which provides: “The personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed (“data minimization”)”.

Cameras installed by individuals must be oriented
preferably towards their private space, with the distinctive mandatory
informative for the appropriate legal purposes.

The individual responsible for the installation must be able to accredit before
this Control Authority that it complies with all legal requirements
required, indicating where appropriate the reason for the installation.

In the case of a video-surveillance camera, you must have the
mandatory informative badge, placed in a visible area indicating that it is a
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

video-monitored space.

III

For informational purposes only, it is worth remembering some of the requirements that must be
comply with the processing of images through a video surveillance system to be
in accordance with current regulations:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space since the treatment of images in places
public can only be carried out, where appropriate, by the Forces and Bodies of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the persons who are
find.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in article
12 of the RGPD 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the terms referred to both in the
cited article, as in articles 13 and 14 of said rule, resulting from the application
-by not contradicting the provisions of the aforementioned Regulation-, the manner provided in the
Article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, on the Processing of Personal Data for the Purpose of
Surveillance through Camera Systems or Video Cameras (Instruction 1/2006, of 8
of November, of the Spanish Data Protection Agency).

Specifically, it must:

Place in the video-monitored areas, at least one badge
1.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in spaces
open as closed.

In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the informative sign previously
mentioned must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided in
these precepts.

Keep available to those affected the information to which

two.
refers to the aforementioned Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016.

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

According to the evidence in the file, it is proven that the
denounced has installed some type of devices, without having answered this
Agency on its characteristics.

The accused is warned that he must proceed to answer this body or
either in the case of a video-surveillance camera proceed to remove it or
redirect it towards its private space exclusively.

Article 83 section 5 of the RGPD provides the following:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

When motivating the sanction to be proposed, it is taken into account that it is a
particular, who has no record for these same facts, which justifies that the
sanction to be imposed is a Warning.

v

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

The accused party must explain what kind of device has been installed
providing proof of it (eg copy of the instructions, photographs, etc.), indicating
the cause/reason for its installation and any other aspect that it deems
relevant to the case at hand.

Remind the denouncing party that they have the possibility after the deadline for
compliance with the requirement to communicate the facts to the Police Forces and Bodies
Security of the town or file a new complaint with a new photograph
(date/time) that proves the presence of the device.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

According to what was stated,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.- WARN (PS/00170/2019) Mr. A.A.A. for the infringement of the content of art.
5.1 c) RGPD, by having a video-surveillance device oriented towards the area
public, infringement typified in article 83. 5 a) RGPD, being punishable by
in accordance with art. 58.2 GDPR.

2.- REQUIRE D.A.A.A. so that within a month from this act of
notification:

 Accredit the technical characteristics of the installed device, as well as that the

It conforms to current legislation.

 Failing that, you must prove the withdrawal of the same or, where appropriate, the

reorientation towards their private space exclusively.

3.- NOTIFY this Agreement to Don A.A.A. and REPORT the result of the
actions to the complaining party (s) Doña B.B.B. and Doña C.C.C.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the
LOPD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, the interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

