DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

 

REPRIMAND 

 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Thames Valey Police (TVP) in accordance with Schedule 13(2)(c) of the 
Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) in respect of certain infringements 
of the DPA 2018.   
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to TVP in respect of 
the following infringements of the DPA 2018: 
 

•  S.40 of the DPA 18 (Security) which states: The sixth data 

protection principle is that personal data processed for any of the 
law enforcement purposes must be so processed in a manner that 
ensures appropriate security of the personal data, using appropriate 
technical or organisational measures (and, in this principle, 
“appropriate security” includes protection against unauthorised or 
unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or 
damage). 

 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
This investigation has found that TVP have inappropriately disclosed  
contextual information that led to suspected criminals learning the  
address of a witness (the data subject).  
 
As a result of this incident, the data subject has moved address and the 
impact and risk to the data subject remains high. 
 
This incident occurred because TVP did not have the appropriate  
organisational measures in place to ensure that their officers were aware  
of existing guidance around disclosure and redactions. TVP have been  
unable to evidence that the officer who responded to the information  
request from the housing authority had received redaction training or was 
aware of existing policies around sharing information. 
 
Further to this, there was no oversight of the redaction process as TVP 
thought that the officer in question had sufficient experience to complete  
the redactions. 

 

1 

 
Mitigating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that TVP do have  
redaction training and policies in place that would have reduced the  
likelihood of this incident from occurring, had they been followed.  
 
However, the officer responsible for this incident was not aware of these 
policies. This is because TVP do not proactively make their officers aware  
of their policies but instead point their officers to a policy library as part of  
an officers induction.  
 
For example, a policy about evidence gathering and the need to protect  
evidence and intelligence sources was provided by TVP. Within this policy  
it instructs officers to meet with a supervisor of TVPs intelligence hub  
before disclosing information about intelligence sources. However, this  
officer responsible for this incident did not do this as they were not aware  
of the policy or any existing guidance telling them to do so. 
 
Remedial steps taken by TVP 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps  
taken by TVP in the light of this incident. In particular, the officer in  
question has completed information management refresher training, TVP  
operational guidance has been updated to provide more detail with when  
information can be shared and an email has been sent that highlights  
data sharing guidance. Further to this, policy documents have been  
updated to provide greater detail on how, what and when to make  
redactions.  
 
While these are welcome remedial steps that have been taken by TVP, the  
ICO would expect more to be done in an incident such as this. For  
example, the completion of redaction training for officers who are  
expected to complete redactions, as well as regular updates or awareness  
sessions on policies. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to TVP in relation to the infringements of S.40 of the 
DPA 18 (Security) of the DPA 2018 set out above. 
 
 

 

2 

Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that TVP should take certain steps to 
ensure its compliance with DPA 2018. With particular reference to S.40 of  
the DPA 18 (Security) of the DPA 2018, the following steps are 
recommended: 
 
1.  TVP should consider providing redaction training to all staff 

responsible for redactions and completing disclosures. 
 

2.  TVP should share any updates to policies or processes with officers 

and members of staff as soon as they are available.  
 

3.  TVP should continuously review policies and guidance on the handling 

of personal data (including disclosure, redactions etc), and update 
these documents where necessary. Staff need to be reminded of 
these regularly, and proactively updated as soon as they are 
reviewed.  

 
 

 

3 

