1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00477/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 18, 2020, it had entry in this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereinafter, the claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed
in ***DIRECCION.1, MÁLAGA, with indications of a possible breach of the
provided in the personal data protection regulations.

The reasons that support the claim and, where appropriate, the documents provided
by the claimant are the following:

"The camera installed on the terrace of the defendant's house points
unnecessarily to the public thoroughfare and to the portal of our building. (…)»

Attach photographic report of the location of the cameras.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

THIRD: On December 14, 2020, a reply is received from the respondent
indicating that the video surveillance installation was carried out by the company Securitas Direct
Spain S.A.U. with a camera located on the terrace of the 1st floor of the house, and
that said camera records the images and keeps them for 48 hours.

Provide a copy of the installation contract and a photograph of the informative poster of the
camera existence.

In addition, it attaches a photograph of the capture carried out by the same, in which it is observed
the entire terrace, and on the right side, the street, sidewalk and building from which
denounces the facts by the claimant.

FOURTH: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 16
December 2020.

FIFTH: On February 2, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the treatment
of personal data and the free circulation of these data and by which the
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter, RGPD).

SIXTH: On February 26, 2021, this Agency received the allegations
presented by the respondent, who, in short, indicates that he installed the system of
video surveillance for a series of attacks suffered in his home.

However, he has contacted the camera installation company and "(...) I have
ordered to modify the position of the security camera so that it only captures
images of the terrace and its railing, as can be seen from the photograph
I attached, taken from the camera. In no case is the building in front
where the claimant lives, nor anything that could affect the freedom of people. (…)”

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On October 18, 2020, a claim was filed with this Agency
because "The camera installed on the terrace of the defendant's home points
unnecessarily to the public thoroughfare and to the portal of our building. (…)»

SECOND: It is identified as the main person in charge D. B.B.B. with NIF
***NIF.1, who wields reasons of their home security for the installation of the
camera.

THIRD: The respondent has ordered to modify the position of the security camera
so that it only captures images of the terrace and its railing, as can be seen
by the attached photograph, taken from the camera. In no case is the building visible
opposite where the claimant lives, nor anything that could affect the freedom of the
people.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

On October 18, 2020, this Agency received a claim from the
complainant by means of which it is transferred that «The camera installed on the terrace
of the defendant's home points unnecessarily to the public thoroughfare and the portal of
our building. (…)»

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides that personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation.

The cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding intimidating
neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control transit areas
of them without just cause.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations, as this is
exclusive jurisdiction of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

III

On February 26, 2021, a written statement was received from the party
denounced by means of which he states that he has contacted the company
installer of the cameras and "(...) I have ordered to modify the position of the camera of
security so that it only captures images of the terrace and its railing, as can be
check by the attached photograph, taken from the camera. In no case is
see the building across the street where the claimant lives, or anything that might affect the
people's freedom. (…)”

The art. 22 section 2 of the LOPDGDD provides:

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is
essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

Examined the file as a whole, although it is true that at the time of the start
of this sanctioning procedure the camera installed on the property of the
claimed captured images outside his property, during the period of
allegations, it has been verified, with the contribution of a photograph, that it has proceeded
to the reorientation of the camera towards his private space.

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, having examined the modifications of the installed system, the
itself is considered adjusted to the right, capturing the camera the minimum essential
for their home protection work.

Full collaboration with this body is taken into account when carrying out the
precise corrections to avoid affecting the right of third parties, being the necessary ones
to preserve the security of the property and its inhabitants.

The parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake and must avoid
instrumentalize institutions in matters beyond their competence,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

having to adjust the relationships between them to the minimum requirements of the
good neighbor rules

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, once the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, and taking into account
Note that the reorientation of the camera has occurred during the processing of the
present procedure, the sanction of warning is maintained, since during a
time the camera overrecorded the public thoroughfare, although no measures are required
complementary to having been adopted.

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of article 5.1.c)
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of WARNING.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

