
The Agency for Personal Data Protection, in cooperation with the Croatian Community of Counties, is starting to implement a cycle of trainings intended for data protection officers in local and regional self-government units and public authorities. Taking into account the important role and numerous tasks assigned to data protection officers by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the need to conduct targeted training in the field of personal data protection and information security, which includes specialized knowledge and skills in personal protection law and practice data and information security.
The capacity building campaign for data protection officers will start with a free ONLINE training to be held on 21 December 2020. Participation in the training is free, the number of participants is limited to 100, and registration is required via the form at https: //ec.europa .eu / eusurvey / runner / db55cd65-41f3-13bc-b50b-55d1f78f9ad6, no later than Friday, December 18, at 2 p.m. When you apply, ask a question in the application form so that the lecturers can be better prepared to answer you. After you apply, we will send you the information to connect to the training in a timely manner. During the training you will have the opportunity to ask questions via chat, and after the training you will receive a confirmation of participation of the Personal Data Protection Agency as the supervisory body responsible for the implementation of the General Regulation on Data Protection.
We believe that this campaign will strengthen the role of data protection officers and provide final answers and solutions to this target group on how to adequately align the operations of their organizations with the General Data Protection Regulation.
As part of this campaign, the Agency is conducting a survey on the scope, type of work and training of data protection officers in Croatia. We invite all data protection officers to participate in the survey and please fill in the anonymous survey questionnaire available at https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/DPOsurvey2020.
The purpose of this research is to gain insight into the challenges faced by data protection officers in aligning business processes with the General Data Protection Regulation in their organizations and a clearer understanding of their needs.
Participation in the survey is anonymous. In further processing, only group results will be used and published for the purpose of improving the quality of lectures, writing scientific articles, creating educational materials and modules for data protection officers.
https://www.hrvzz.hr/novosti/hrvatska_zajednica_zupanija/edukacija_zastita_osobnih_podataka_i_informacijska_sigurnost-51800
