1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00048/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. in the name and representation of Ms. B.B.B. (hereinafter, the
claimant) dated August 5, 2019 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The claim is directed against the ASSOCIATION OF
PRISON WORKERS YOUR ABANDONMENT CAN KILL ME with NIF
G88300991 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The claimant states: “that on August 2, 2018, the respondent proceeded
to spread through the social network Twitter a copy of an alleged act of
conciliation that would have been filed with the claimant.

Said request includes your personal data, including your home address.
which is not public data or accessible to third parties.

Due to her work, the claimant is a public person, but her domicile is not, and the
disclosure of said information.

The dissemination of the data has been massive, as reflected in the number of retweets and
favorites that tweet in question.”

And, it provides, among other things, the following documentation: The document published in

Twitter, which contains the home address of the claimant.

SECOND: In view of the facts stated, he moved, on October 1,
2019 and on the 14th day of the same month and year, the claim for the claimed
will report:

1.

“The decision adopted regarding this claim.

1. In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to 22

of the RGPD, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.

two.

3.

Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.

Report on the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring
similar, dates of implementation and controls carried out to verify their
effectiveness.

4. Any other that you consider relevant.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

Thus, on October 12, 2019, the notification service
electronic, returned the aforementioned notification, due to the expiration of the deadline for
provision and on November 8, 2019, it was returned by the postal service, by
not to be withdrawn said shipment from the post office.
THIRD: On January 18, 2021, the respondent states: “that my
constituents withdrew from their Twitter account the document published in an
immediately, not being the same in the network more than 15 minutes, being published by
error, error that once noticed caused the immediate withdrawal of the publication, made
which is easily verifiable by the Agency to which I am addressing, leaving no trace
of any kind of networks, nor of the data, nor of the content of the reconciliation
published by mistake, a fact that caused the complainant not to suffer any harm”.

FOURTH: On February 18, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the ASSOCIATION
OF PRISON WORKERS YOUR ABANDONMENT CAN KILL ME, for the
alleged infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD
in relation to article 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD.

FIFTH: The Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure was notified to the entity
claimed electronically being the date of availability February 19
of 2021, as evidenced by the certificate issued by the FNMT that works in the
proceedings.

SIXTH
 : Formal notification of the initiation agreement, the respondent has presented
 
brief of allegations on March 4, 2021, stating: “We must state
that my constituents removed from their Twitter account the published document of
immediately, not being the same in the network more than 15 minutes, being
published by mistake, error that once noticed, reason for the immediate withdrawal of the
publication, leaving no trace of any kind on the networks, neither of the data, nor of the
content of the conciliation published by mistake, a fact that caused the complainant
did not suffer any harm.

For this reason, recognizing the facts and not having any previous sanction,
taking into account the principle of proportionality and seriousness of what happened and the rapid
correction made we request in application of art. 148 of the RGPD that the sanction
remains in a warning, showing our deepest regret for what
happened, not being our intention to cause damage to anyone, since everything is
due to an inadvertent error.

We request: that they consider the facts recognized and if they consider that the
action is reprehensible, we request that in accordance with the principles of seriousness and
proportionality, the sanction imposed on us is a Warning”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

PROVEN FACTS

RIMERO: It is on record that on August 2, 2018, the respondent proceeded to disseminate
by the social network Twitter a copy of an alleged demand for a conciliation act
that would have been filed against the claimant.

The claimant's personal data is included in the aforementioned lawsuit.

including your home address, which is not public data or accessible to third parties.

Due to her work, the claimant is a public person, but her domicile is not, and the

disclosure of said information.

The dissemination of the data has been massive, as reflected in the number of retweets and

favorites that tweet in question.

SECOND: On March 4, 2021, the party claimed in his writ of
allegations acknowledges the facts and agrees with the sanction imposed.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow considering

lawful processing of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; personal data may be kept for longer periods
provided that they are treated exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with article
89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the conservation period");

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided for in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

In accordance with the evidence available, it is considered proven
that on August 2, 2018, the respondent proceeded to spread through the social network
Twitter an alleged lawsuit for a conciliation act that would have been filed with the
claimant where his personal data included his home address.

Therefore, it is confirmed that the respondent spread on the social network the
home address of the claimant, and therefore is responsible for the
violation of confidentiality by disseminating said data, for which it is considered that
has violated article 6.1 due to an illicit treatment of the personal data of the
claimant, in relation to article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs the principles of
integrity and confidentiality of personal data, as well as the responsibility
proactive of the data controller to demonstrate compliance.

IV

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
costs for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article.
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of €20,000,000 maximum.
mo or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount.”

Article 58.2 of the RGPD indicates: "Each control authority will have all

the following corrective powers indicated below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation.
glament;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.”

Points out in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

There are no sanctions preceding the one claimed, the activity of the claimed

It is not the usual data treatment, nor was it intended to obtain benefits.

The respondent has acknowledged said error, and it is stated that she withdrew from her account

Twitter published the document immediately.

v

Formally notified of the initiation agreement, the respondent has submitted a written
of allegations on March 4, 2021, stating: “We must state that my
constituents withdrew from their Twitter account the document published in an
immediately, not being the same in the network more than 15 minutes, being published by
error, error that once noticed, reason for the immediate withdrawal of the publication, not
leaving a trace of any kind on the networks, neither of the data, nor of the content of the
conciliation published by mistake, a fact that caused the complainant not to suffer
no harm.

For this reason, recognizing the facts and not having any previous sanction,
taking into account the principle of proportionality and seriousness of what happened and the rapid
correction made we request in application of art. 148 of the RGPD that the sanction
remains in a warning, showing our deepest regret for what
happened, not being our intention to cause damage to anyone, since everything is
due to an inadvertent error.

We request: that they consider the facts recognized and if they consider that the
action is reprehensible, we request that in accordance with the principles of seriousness and
proportionality, the sanction imposed on us is a Warning”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP),
under the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the
Next:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
let it proceed”.

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ON THE PRISON WORKERS ASSOCIATION YOUR
ABANDONMENT CAN KILL ME, with NIF G88300991, for a violation of article
6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, a penalty of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the WORKERS ASSOCIATION
PRISONS YOUR ABANDONMENT CAN KILL ME, with NIF G88300991

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

