1/16

 Procedure No.: PS/00087/2021

RESOLUTION R/00246/2021 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00087/2021, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to PROMOTECH DIGITAL, S.L., given the complaint filed by
A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 15, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against PROMOTECH
DIGITAL, S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<
Procedure No.: PS/00087/2021

935-240719

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
the entity, PROMOTECH DIGITAL, S.L., with CIF.: B87231312, (hereinafter, "the
claimed entity"), by virtue of a complaint filed by D. A.A.A., (hereinafter, "the
claimant person”), and based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On 10/26/20, you have entered this Agency, a document presented by
the claimant, in which he indicated, among others, the following:

“I have repeatedly received SMS from this company, when I have never subscribed, nor
SMS sending accepted (I never consent to it from any company). Not in the SMS
allows you to unsubscribe, except by mail”.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, on 12/01/20 an informative request is addressed to
the claimed entity.

THIRD: On 12/30/20, the respondent entity sends a letter to this Agency,
in which it indicated, among others, the following:

“The claimant made use of the electronic commerce service provided by
PROMOTECH through the Website ***URL.1 on April 28, 2016, as it is
manifested through the ticket of the order that you made on that date and that is
attached as DOCUMENT 1.

Therefore, the claimant's data must be kept by PROMOTECH for the
statutes of limitations for actions of any kind that may result
applicable to the relationship between it and PROMOTECH itself. Yo. In this sense,
It is necessary to take into account, at least, the limitation period of 5 years established with
relation to personal obligations in Article 1964, section 2, of the Code
Civil, in accordance with the provisions of the AEPD in its Report 00148/2019.

It must be taken into account that the mobile phone number data must form
part of the data kept during the prescription periods of the actions
relevant, since said data is used during the order management process
(realization, preparation and delivery) made through the aforementioned Website.

Add that, although the claimant is correct when he says that he does not have any
relationship currently with PROMOTECH, it must be reiterated that it did, at least, in
2016, and that this relationship is what motivates the conservation of your data, for
application of the statutory limitation periods to be taken into account.

Therefore, the retention of the claimant's data is motivated by the
compliance with the applicable regulations in relation to the limitation periods of
the actions that may correspond to PROMOTECH and/or the claimant as
derivation of the relationship established between both Parties and, specifically, of the request
made by the claimant on April 28, 2016.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

It is indicated in the letter from the AEPD that "To this must be added that the claimant already
filed a claim against the respondent in procedure number:
E/07310/2018, which was resolved with a non-admission for processing since the claimed
He stated that he had suppressed the claimant's data. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
deletion of the data should not have been carried out.”

b. Disagreement must be indicated with the statement that “the suppression of the
data should not have been carried out”, because:

As indicated, PROMOTECH had to keep the claimant's data in
strict application of the Regulations on prescription of the relevant actions with
regarding the relationship with the claimant and the request made by him in April 2016.

PROMOTECH has sent a significant number of communications
messages by SMS since you sent your response within the Procedure
E/07310/2018 and always strictly complied with its commitments contained in
said answer.

The fact, as will be indicated below in point 3, that there may have been a
punctual and involuntary failure that could have given rise to the shipment to which the claimant
does not mean that PROMOTECH did not comply with the commitments
that it acquired with its response brief within Procedure E/07310/2018. b)
Rather, in the almost two years since that response and until the SMS received by the
claimant, the latter has not been included in any of the various communications
commercials carried out by PROMOTECH through said channel, which highlights
I state that it did act as indicated in the 2018 Procedure.

PROMOTECH, as it has already stated, makes communications from time to time
commercials by SMS to those people who have given their informed consent,
prior and express to this end, in the terms of the Data Protection Regulations and the
Regulations on electronic commercial communications.

In none of such communications is the claimant included, except in the case
punctual and accidental of the communication that is included in the letter of the AEPD, for
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

as there would have been an involuntary, occasional and unintentional failure in the
generation of the shipment that would have given rise to the inclusion in it of the number of
claimant's mobile phone.

PROMOTECH, as has been pointed out, already has a specific process when
of generating commercial communications through SMS, for which it is not included in
the list of recipients to those people who have expressed their refusal or not
have given their consent to receive such communications.

However, and although it must be reiterated that the recipient filtering process is already
exists, in order to avoid involuntary, occasional and unintentional situations
as the one produced with the claimant, PROMOTECH will establish in the month of January
2021 an additional filter to the existing one so that:

The current filtering by which they are not included in the list of recipients will be maintained.
those people who do not have the mark in the database indicating that they have given
their consent or have not expressed their refusal to receive the
commercial communications by electronic means.

The creation of a specific and independent database will be added in which
will collect the people who, through whatever channel, (a) have not given their
consent to the reception of commercial communications by means
electronics; (ii) have stated their refusal to continue receiving such
communications; or (iii) have revoked the consent they had given to the
receipt of such communications.

The list of recipients of each commercial communication will be filtered against this base
of data so as not to include as such recipients those who were included in the
same.

Of course, the claimant will be included in such a database. iii. Every time you know
is going to generate the database of recipients of a commercial communication,
The filtering processes will be documented, both the one that is already carried out and the one that is going to be
be implemented in January 2021, so that its completion can be accredited and
can verify its correctness.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

All of which we inform you in order to respond to the transfer of
claim and request for information made in the reference procedure. Y
In any case, we are at your entire disposal for any questions,
additional or complementary, they consider appropriate”.

 

FOURTH: On 02/19/20, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreement is issued for the admission of processing of the claim
filed by the claimant, in accordance with article 65 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (LPDGDD), considering that what is indicated above, does not comply
with current regulations, so the opening of this procedure proceeds
sanctioning

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition:

- On the exercise of the rights recognized in the RGPD and the treatment of

personal information:

It is competent to initiate and resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, by virtue of the powers that art 58.2
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16,
regarding the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the Treatment of
Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD) recognizes each
Control Authority and, as established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD),

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case.".

- Regarding the sending of advertising SMS without consent:

In accordance with the provisions of art. 43.1, second paragraph, of the Law
34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the Information Society and Commerce
Electronic System (LSSI), is competent to initiate and resolve this Procedure
Sanctioning, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

In the present case, according to the claimant, he has received several SMS, with
advertising messages of the claimed entity, without consent.

II

For its part, the respondent entity alleges in its brief answering the
requirement made by this Agency that the claimant made use of the service of
electronic commerce arranged by PROMOTECH, through the Website ***URL.1, in
April 2016 and that therefore he is fully entitled in the treatment of the
personal data of the claimant.

However, the claimant filed in September 2018, a first
claim against the claimed entity, within the framework of the procedure
E/07310/2018, and that according to the existing documentation in said file it was: “by
the lack of attention to your right regulated in Article 21 of the RGPD”.

Prior to admitting said claim for processing, this Agency gave
transfer of the same to the claimed entity, so that it proceeded to its analysis and give
response, both to the claimant and to this Agency.

In the letter that the respondent entity addressed to the claimant, dated 11/13/18, it was
you can read verbatim the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

“(…) We hereby inform you that it is the will of said
Company resolve any request from its customers within the framework of the
law, and comply with the communication received from the AEPD on 16
October 2018, which requires Promotech Digital, SL. what for
communicate the decision adopted in relation to the facts subject to
claim. In the claim filed, you state that you have
received two commercial communications via SMS, without having registered in the
database of XXXXXXXX or on the web, nor have given their consent
for this type of advertising. After consulting the records on the website of
XXXXXXXX, record your registration as a user of the services of this
company since 2016, specifically to place an order
of products on April 28, 2016, having given their consent
to receive commercial communications about our services
and promotions, when you formalized online the form for your registration as
Username.

Likewise, it does not appear in the company registry that it has exercised
above your right to delete your personal data or
opposition, or that has been removed from the user registry. Nevertheless,
After receiving notification from the AEPD of your claim, it has been
proceeded to comply with your request, in such a way that they have been blocked
your data in the XXXXXXXX system, keeping them only,
as dictated by the Law, for the attention of the possible responsibilities born
of your initial treatment, and for the processing of this claim before
the AEPD (…)”.

We inform you that the blocking of your personal data makes it impossible
its use or treatment for the sending of commercial communications or
other purposes than those indicated in the previous paragraph.

Subsequently, at the moment in which your personal data leaves
if necessary to fulfill the purposes described above,
will proceed to its total suppression in the system of XXXXXXXX (...)”.

For all these reasons, this Agency resolved, regarding file E/07310/2018,
refusing to process that claim considering that the person responsible had
served the exercise of the claimant's right.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

However, as can be deduced from the brief presented by the claimant before this
Agency, in October 2020, the entity claimed sent an SMS again
advertisements to the claimant without their consent.

On the exercise of the rights recognized in the RGPD, article 12 of the RGPD,
establish that:

III

1.- The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the
interested all information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication under articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language, in
particular any information directed specifically at a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by
electronics. When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their rights in
under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph 2,
The person in charge will not refuse to act at the request of the interested party in order to exercise their
rights under articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you are not in
conditions to identify the interested party.

3. The data controller will provide the interested party with information regarding their
proceedings on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, and, in
in any case, within one month from receipt of the request. Saying
The term may be extended for another two months if necessary, taking into account the
complexity and number of requests. The person in charge will inform the interested party of
any such extension within one month of receipt of the
request, indicating the reasons for the delay. When the interested party submits the
request by electronic means, the information will be provided by electronic means
when possible, unless the interested party requests that it be provided in another way.

On the other hand, article 21 of the RGPD, on the right of opposition, establishes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

1. The interested party will have the right to object at any time, for reasons
related to your particular situation, to which personal data concerning you
are subject to processing based on the provisions of Article 6, paragraph 1,
letters e) or f), including profiling on the basis of these provisions.
The controller will stop processing the personal data, unless
prove compelling legitimate reasons for the treatment that prevail over the
interests, rights and freedoms of the interested party, or for the formulation, the
exercise or defense of claims.

2. When the processing of personal data is for marketing purposes
directly, the interested party shall have the right to object at any time to the processing of
the personal data that concerns you, including the elaboration of profiles in the
insofar as it is related to said marketing.

3. When the interested party opposes the treatment for direct marketing purposes,
personal data will no longer be processed for these purposes.

4. At the latest at the time of the first communication with the interested party, the
right indicated in sections 1 and 2 will be explicitly mentioned to the interested party
and will be presented clearly and apart from any other information.

5. In the context of the use of information society services, and not
Notwithstanding the provisions of Directive 2002/58/EC, the interested party may exercise their
right to oppose by automated means that apply specifications
techniques.

6.When personal data is processed for the purpose of scientific research or
historical or statistical purposes in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, the
The interested party shall have the right, for reasons related to his particular situation, to
oppose the processing of personal data that concerns you, unless it is
necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out for reasons of interest
public.

According to the evidence available at this time, and without
Prejudice to what results from the investigation, the exposed facts could suppose the
violation of article 21 of the RGPD, in relation to article 12 of the aforementioned
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

Regulation, since it has been proven that the entity did not act
diligently, having sent new advertising SMS to the claimant after
having exercised this, the right of opposition.

For its part, article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “The impediment or the obstruction or the repeated non-attention of the
exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulation”.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction to be imposed in
the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance
with the following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

-

The facts object of the claim are a consequence of the clear lack of
due diligence on the part of the entity complained against, (paragraph b).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating what is established in article 21 of the
RGPD, in relation to article 12 of the RGPD, allows setting an initial penalty of
3,000 euros, (three thousand euros).

Regarding the sending of advertising SMS without the consent of the interested party, article 21 of
the LSSI, provides the following:

III

"1. The sending of advertising or promotional communications by
email or other equivalent means of electronic communication
previously they had not been requested or expressly authorized by the
their recipients.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

2. The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply when there is a
prior contractual relationship, provided that the provider had legally obtained
the contact details of the recipient and will use them to send communications
commercial references to products or services of your own company that are
similar to those initially contracted with the client.

In any case, the provider must offer the recipient the possibility of opposing the
processing of your data for promotional purposes through a simple procedure
and free, both at the time of data collection and in each of the
commercial communications addressed to you.

When the communications have been sent by email, said
means must necessarily consist of the inclusion of an email address
electronic or other valid electronic address where this right can be exercised,
sending communications that do not include said address is prohibited.”

Therefore, according to the evidence available at this time,
and without prejudice to what results from the investigation, the facts exposed could
suppose the violation of article 21 of the LSSI, by the claimed entity, by
send advertising SMS without the consent of the affected party.

The aforementioned infraction is typified as minor in art. 38.4.d) of said
standard, which qualifies as such, "The sending of commercial communications by e-mail
electronic or other equivalent means of electronic communication when in said
shipments do not meet the requirements established in article 21 and do not constitute
Serious offense".

Pursuant to the provisions of article 39.1.c) of the LSSI, minor infractions may
sanctioned with a fine of up to €30,000, establishing the criteria for its
graduation in article 40 of the same norm.

After the evidence obtained, and without prejudice to what results from the investigation,
considers that in this case it acts as an aggravating circumstance:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

-

The existence of intent (section a), since the entity claimed
sent commercial advertising to the claimant's phone, via SMS, without the
consent of the interested party.

In accordance with these criteria, it is considered appropriate to impose a sanction on the defendant
initial payment of 2,000 euros (two thousand euros).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in the present case, with respect to the
infractions committed by the claimed entity allows a total initial sanction to be set
of 5,000 euros, (five thousand euros): 3,000 euros for violation of article 21 of the RGPD
and 2,000 euros for violation of article 21 of the LSSI.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, By the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

START: PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against the entity PROMOTECH DIGITAL,
S.L., with CIF.: B87231312, in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 21, with
regarding article 12 of the RGPD and violation of article 21 of the LSSI.

APPOINT: instructor to D. B.B.B. and, as secretary, Ms. C.C.C., indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

INCORPORATE: to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim
filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and
generated by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection during the
research.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

WHAT: for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond would be a fine of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros), without prejudice to
whatever results from the instruction.

NOTIFY: this agreement to the entity, PROMOTECH DIGITAL, S.L.,
granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the
pleadings and submit any evidence you deem appropriate.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
this procedure, equivalent in this case to 1,000 euros. with the app
of this reduction, the sanction would be established at 4,000 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case
to 1,000 euros. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be established in
4,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 3,000 euros (three thousand euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts indicated
above, you must make it effective by depositing it in the account Nº ES00 0000
0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number of
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the
cause of reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

>>

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

 : On March 30, 2021, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 3,000 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:
"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00087/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to PROMOTECH DIGITAL, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-031219

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

