1/13

 File No.: EXP202202536

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 13, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against B.B.B.Y OTRO MAS
C.B. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: EXP202202536

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant party) dated February 11,
2022 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection against
B.B.B. AND ANOTHER C.B. with NIF E41209826 (hereinafter, the claimed party), by
the installation of a video surveillance system located at ***ADDRESS.1, existing
indications of a possible breach of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

The claimant states that she resides in a dwelling as a tenant and that said
housing is located in a property whose Community of Owners has agreed the
installation of video surveillance cameras in common areas that are linked to a
alarm sensor that means that, when movement is detected, the camera captures
images of the area to which it is oriented. He points out that the camera installed in the
landing of your home is oriented to your home, so you understand
that your installation is not suitable. He also indicates that he does not know if
installed posters of video surveillance area as established by the regulations of
Data Protection.

It provides images of the location of the camera and contacts maintained with the
Community Administration on camera.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP) by electronic notification, was not collected by
the person in charge, within the period of making available, understanding rejected
in accordance with the provisions of article 43.2 of the LPACAP on March 18,
2022, as stated in the certificate in the file.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, by way of
informative, a copy was sent by mail that was reliably notified in
dated March 31, 2022. In said notification, he was reminded of his obligation to
communicate electronically with the Administration, and they were informed of the means
of access to said notifications, reiterating that, in the future, you would be notified
exclusively by electronic means.

On May 3, 2022, this Agency received a response letter
indicating, in short, that the building belongs to a community of goods made up of
two sisters, who live in it together with a tenant (which they suppose is the
claimant). The parties to that community of property reached an agreement to put a
security camera in the building in the common areas, to control the
security of the same, since there have been robberies.

They hired the entity Securitas Direct. The camera is a motion detector
that when it detects movement it shoots a photo that is not archived when it is someone
known, it is only archived when it comes to an intruder. Does not have recorder
images or display monitor, the images (in case of intruders) must
extract them the security company. All this information was provided to the party
claimant through burofax.

The respondent points out that there is a sign that warns of the existence of a zone
video surveillance at the entrance of the building, providing a photograph of it.

In the photograph provided there is an informative poster that there is an alarm. Without
However, it is not appreciated that it contains information on the existence of a
treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: On May 11, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

The image is a personal data

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

The images generated by a camera or video camera system are data from
personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the protection regulations
of data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the reported video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

III

alleged infringement

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

Regarding the treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the processing of images through camera systems or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
installations.

Article 12.1 of the RGPD indicates that whoever carries out data processing
personal, such as capturing images through a system of
video surveillance, you must provide the interested parties with the information indicated in the
articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

In order for the duty of information provided for in article 12 of the RGPD to be
complies in a concise and understandable manner for the affected party, the aforementioned article 22 of the
LOPDGDD foresees in relation to video surveillance a system of "information by
layers".

In this sense, the first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the
treatment (video surveillance), the identity of the person in charge, the possibility of exercising the
rights provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD and where to obtain more
information on the processing of personal data.

Second layer information should be readily available in one place
accessible to the affected party, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc...,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
rest of the elements of article 13 of the RGPD.

It is not necessary to specify the precise location of the video surveillance equipment.

This duty of information shall be understood to be fulfilled by placing a
informative device in a sufficiently visible place, and at least, in the accesses
to the monitored areas, whether indoors or outdoors. In case the space
video-surveillance has several accesses, it must have said identification badge
video-monitored area in each of them.

This information must be provided in advance -considering 39 of the RGPD-. The
The goal is to make the context of the surveillance clear.

The processing of personal data is subject to the rest of the principles of the
treatment contained in article 5 of the RGPD. We will highlight the principle of
minimization of data contained in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD that provides that the
personal data will be “adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to
for the purposes for which they are processed”.

This means that in a specific treatment only the data can be processed.
timely personal, that come to the case and that are strictly necessary
to fulfill the purpose for which they are processed. The treatment must be adjusted and
proportional to the purpose to which it is directed. The relevance in the treatment of
data must occur both at the time of data collection and in the
subsequent treatment of the same.

In accordance with the above, the processing of excessive data must be restricted or
proceed to their removal.

The application of the principle of data minimization in the field of video surveillance
entails that images cannot be captured from public roads, since the
treatment of images in public places, unless authorized
governmental, can only be carried out by the Security Forces and Bodies.

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
installed cameras on facades or inside, it may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public highway.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

That is, cameras and video cameras installed for security purposes may not
obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for that purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in that case
extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.
object of the installation and, in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

Nor can images be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties.
without the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the people who
find.

Likewise, it is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such
such as changing rooms, lockers or worker rest areas.

Video surveillance obligations

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing could not reasonably be achieved by
other means, considering 39 of the RGPD.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a later purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 must be complied with
and 13 of the RGPD, and 22 of the LOPDGDD, in the terms already indicated.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

4.- The treatment of images through the installation of camera systems or
video cameras must be lawful and comply with the principle of proportionality and that of
minimization of data, in the terms already indicated.

5.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, goods or facilities.

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
existence of the recording.

6.- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

7.- The person in charge must carry out a risk analysis or, where appropriate, an evaluation
of impact on data protection, to detect those derived from the implementation
of the video surveillance system, assess them and, where appropriate, adopt the measures of
appropriate security.

8.- When a security breach occurs that affects the processing of
cameras for security purposes, whenever there is a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, you must notify the AEPD within a maximum period of
72 hours.

A security breach is understood as the accidental or accidental destruction, loss or alteration of
illicit of personal data transmitted, conserved or treated in another way, or the
unauthorized communication or access to said data.

9.- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:







the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the
RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” / “regulations”),
the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,
the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available in the
section “Guides and tools”).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

v

Possible administrative infraction

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, existence of an informative poster of
that there is an alarm, without recording information about the existence of a
treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in the data protection regulations, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the exposed facts violate what is established in the
article 13 of the RGPD, so they could lead to the commission of an infringement
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22; (…)”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infraction indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

“(…)

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law”.

SAW

sanction proposal

Article 58.2 of the RGPD establishes:

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

a) (...)

d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

(...)

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in letter d)
above is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

In the present case, taking into account the exposed facts and without prejudice to what
results from the instruction of the procedure, it is considered that the sanction that
should be imposed is an administrative fine. The fine imposed must
be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the
article 83.1 of the RGPD. In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed,
to observe the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, which indicates:

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a)

the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

a)

the intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

b) any measure taken by the controller or processor to

alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

c) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied in
under articles 25 and 32;

d)

any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

e) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy

to the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

F)

g)

the categories of personal data affected by the breach;

the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;

h) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

Yo)

g)

adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42,

any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

a) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

b) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

c) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

d) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of

the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

e) Affecting the rights of minors.

f) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

g) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested".

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed
by violating the provisions of article 13, it allows setting as an initial assessment a
fine of €300 (three hundred euros).

7th

Possible measures

If the infraction is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
appropriate measures to adjust their actions to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

which each control authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the
responsible so that within the period determined:

Prove that you have proceeded to place the informative badge in the areas
video-monitored or to complete the information offered in it (you must
identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the
responsible and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in said
precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently visible place, both in
open and closed spaces.

Certify that you keep the information to which it is referred available to those affected.
refer to articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

viii

conclusion

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against B.B.B. AND ANOTHER C.B.,
with NIF E41209826, for the alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of the LPACAP, the sanction
that could correspond would be, due to the alleged violation of article 13 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 of said regulation, an administrative fine of 300.00
(three hundred) euros, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

Likewise, the imputed infraction, if confirmed, may lead to the imposition of
measures in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD.

THIRD: APPOINT C.C.C. and, as secretary, to D.D.D.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data on actions carried out prior to the start of this
penalty procedure.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to B.B.B. AND ANOTHER C.B., with NIF
E41209826, granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of the LPACAP.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initial agreement, which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 240.00 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 240.00 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 180.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (240.00 euros or 180.00 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

The sanctioning procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from
from the date of the start-up agreement or, if applicable, the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
>>

948-110422

SECOND: On August 2, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 180 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202202536, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. AND ANOTHER CB.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

