1/26

 Procedure No.: PS/00391/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

From the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) filed a claim on 06/30/2020
before the Spanish Data Protection Agency directed against IDCQ HOSPITALES Y
HEALTH, S.L.U. with CIF B87324844 (hereinafter, the claimed).

He declares that during his years of work as a doctor in the aforementioned hospital “I have been using
using the computer system of said center in which several thousand histories are contained-
the doctors of patients that I have been treating in said center”.

The defendant terminated his contract on 02/28/2019. He states that when he was dismissed, "the
The medical records of the patients have been filed in the computerized database.
claimant, having cut off my access to it and denied a copy of the same
mos”. He filed a lawsuit resolved by the Social Court No. 9 of ***LOCALITY.1,
Judgment XXX/2019 of 07/22/2019 (JUDGMENT 1 hereinafter) that accompanies as
DOCUMENT 1. In it, the "incompetence of the social jurisdiction to know
cer of the demand origin of these actions promoted by the claimant…” against
the claimed "on dismissal, and I absolve the claimed of the claims deducted
against him". In the second legal foundation, it is indicated at the end and after analyzing the
circumstances of the provision of the service that “All of the above leads to the conclusion that
possession of such an essential note to configure the employment relationship in the terms in which
it is set up in article 1 of the Workers' Statute, such as acting under the
organization and management of the company”.

The claimant states that, given that said company considers that "my relationship was not
but mercantile”, the ownership of the personal data of the medical records of the pa-
patients that I have attended in said hospital center that includes medical histories, I cannot
must be kept in the computer system of the claimed party and must be guarded and stored
based on the fact that the respondent considers me to be a self-employed entrepreneur”.

Invokes the judgment of the Superior Court of Justice of Castilla y León, Valladolid seat, room
of the social, first section, of 02/11/2015, resource 67/2015, which “provides that if the relationship
commercial relationship of the doctor with the patient or with his insurer is direct, that is, the pro-
own doctor who receives the fees and manages his clientele, as an organization
separate investigation, must be the owner of the medical records and recipient of the personal data.
patients' sonals. The aforementioned sentence of the social, part of a claim of the
General Treasury of the Social Security against a hospital, originated by an act of Infringement
tion of the Labor Inspection. In the minutes, among other issues, it is indicated that he is the host
pital who files and safeguards the medical records of each patient.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/26

The claimant deduces that given that the sentence that he provides-Sentence 1-, he does not appreciate re-
labor relationship, and interpreting the judgment of the TSJ of Castilla León, in which it is analyzed
that: “so that the labor nature of the employment relationship can be legally denied, a
An essential element is the ownership of personal data, which includes the histories
clinical practices regulated in the patient autonomy law” he considers himself responsible
of the treatment, and the claimed party would be violating the Data Protection regulations.

It provides, in addition to what is indicated:

-Copy of a first contract for the provision of services, signed with the claimed party, dated
01/02/2001 (it is not the one mentioned in its sentence of the social).

    (9 pages) (it is the one mentioned in the judgment of
-Copy of another contract, of
 
the social that affects the claimant), between the claimed (Management Company) and several licenses-
two in medicine (PROFESSIONALS), each in their own name, among which is
the claimant.

 10/1/2012
 

It is indicated that the defendant, Sociedad Gestora, operates the health center ***CENTRO.1,
***LOCALITY.2, Street ***ADDRESS.1, of ***LOCALITY.2 (CENTER), dedicated to the
healthcare.

(2) “The Management Company intends to open a new unit in which they provide the
trauma medical emergency services, which is why it is interesting to have the action
activity developed by PROFESSIONALS.”

(3) “The PROFESSIONALS are specialized in orthopedic surgery and active traumatology.
life they provide through their professional experience and what they also want to carry out
their activity in the CENTER”.

(4) They agree to enter into this professional services lease contract that
will be governed by the following clauses:

(4.1) Object of the contract and nature: The contract regulates the general conditions in which
that the Management Company provides spaces for PROFESSIONALS to develop
llo of its consultation activity, with civil legislation being applicable in matters not
contemplated in this document.

(4.2) Obligations of the Management Company:

Allow PROFESSIONALS access to the facilities of the center for the co-


correct development of the activity derived from this contract.

Provide adequate space for PROFESSIONALS so that these develop-

fill their consultation activity, as well as that logistical and administrative support that is agreed upon.
will give at all times so that this activity is not impeded.

     Obligations of PROFESSIONALS:

Provide the professional services contracted efficiently and effectively during the

24 hours a day, 365 days a year. To this end, the PROFESSIONALS undertake

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/26

on the days that they autonomously determine to attend to the patients they consult.
so for orthopedic and trauma medical emergencies.

The PROFESSIONALS will also attend individual or joint consultations that

come from or are a consequence of the general services of the center and correspond to its
specialty.

The PROFESSIONALS undertake to comply with all the obligations that the


labor and Social Security legislation.

Carry out its activities in strict compliance with the obligations derived from

Organic Law 15/999 of 13/12, on the Protection of Personal Data (LOPD) as well
such as the adoption, implementation and compliance with security measures that are applicable
cables, in accordance with Royal Decree 1720 / 2007 that develops it, assuming exclusively
any consequence of the infractions that may occur in this matter in re-
relationship with the activities carried out in the leased facilities and expressly exempting
mind the Management Company of any responsibility.

(4.3) The contract will have a duration of one year, which is tacitly extended for equal periods.
rivers of time

(4.4) Price and form of payment:

“The PROFESSIONALS will receive as remuneration for the professional services
provided the amount equivalent to €42 gross per patient treated as an honora-
accrued medical fees, after issuing an invoice within the first 10 days of each month
by the professional. Payment will be made months in arrears, by bank transfer.
Bank account."

(4.5) Without prejudice to the duty of coordination inherent to work in any medical center,
PROFESSIONALS will be fully autonomous in the development of their activity.

The PROFESSIONALS must coordinate in a timely manner with the medical management of the
CENTER for the purpose of guaranteeing adequate service to patients.

Assistance must be provided in accordance with ethical, deontological and professional standards that
applicable, and will comply with the quality accreditation standards imposed by
the Sociedad Gestora at all times, and must be completed at all times when
These requirements establish the legal and regulatory provisions on management and
provision of medical services.”

On page 6, clause 7, entitled "Personal Data Protection", it is stated:

“Regarding the assurance of compliance with legal responsibilities and obligations,
In terms of Data Protection, it is indicated that so that "the Management Company can
carry out a correct management of the CENTER based on the different data regarding
assistance, occupation, use of spaces, types of interventions, etc., PROFESSIONALS
LES undertake to use the existing hospital information systems in the center
another.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/26

In accordance with the provisions of article 12 of the LOPD, access by the Company
Manager of personal data contained in files that are the responsibility of the PROFE-
SIONALES, either for the use of the information systems of the Sociedad Gestora or
for the provision of the latter of common services that involve data processing
responsibility of the PROFESSIONALS, the Management Company will assume the condition of
charged with the treatment, in the terms of the LOPD, and must comply with the following obligations:
cations:

Treat personal data in accordance with the instructions provided by PROFESSIONALS.


SIONAL.

Do not apply or use personal data for a purpose other than those for which they are


PROFESSIONALS indicate, provided for in this contract.

Do not communicate, transfer or allow access to personal data, not even

ra for its conservation to other natural or legal persons, with the exception of the personnel
of your organization that, for the fulfillment of the functions entrusted to the Company
Manager, need access to them.

However, the PROFESSIONALS expressly authorize the Management Company to
in your name and on your behalf may subcontract with third parties the execution of
provision of all or part of the functions entrusted to the extent that this results
necessary and essential for its fulfillment and, therefore, enable said third parties
companies to access and process personal data from files owned by
the professionals.

Maintain the absolute secrecy and confidentiality of the data provided

by the PROFESSIONALS and enforce the same duty to the staff of your organization
that intervene in any phase of data processing.

Destroy or return personal data to PROFESSIONALS, as well as any

support document where it appears in any of the indicated personal data, once
fulfilled the provision that justified the access of the Sociedad Gestora to said data.

The Management Company must adopt and implement and comply with the security measures

of a technical and organizational nature necessary to guarantee the security and integrity of data
data and avoid its alteration, loss, unauthorized access treatment of the data files.
responsibility of PROFESSIONALS in accordance with Royal Decree 1720/2007.”

It is noted that no express reference to the files or data that make up the history is included.
clinical ria, but nonspecific mention.

In clause 8, “responsibility” it is indicated that “the PROFESSIONALS are responsible
of their professional activity in the facilities of the CENTER and of the consequences that
could derive from their medical actions with respect to hospital patients.

The PROFESSIONALS undertake to have each of them contracted for the duration
the professional relationship civil liability insurance.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/26

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to
transfer of the claim to the claimant on 07/15/2020:

On 07/30/2020 (folios 57 et seq.), the respondent states:

1) (folios 60 et seq.) The Hospital is the entity that collects patient data according to
Article 14.2 of Law 41/2002 of 11/14, basic regulation of the autonomy of the
patient and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation
(LAP hereinafter).

Likewise, it cites article 17.1 of the LAP, which indicates the obligation of health centers
to keep the clinical documentation, from which he deduces that he is responsible for the treatment
I lie.

2) The claimant had leased his free professional activity, issuing the corresponding
bills for professional fees and "for which the Hospital required that
the claimant accessed and processed the data collected in the records on behalf of the Hospital
clinics and other documentation related to the different healthcare processes”. "The access
to the processing of patient data meant that the Hospital only enabled the claimant
mante to carry out data processing (care treatment, consultation, comparison,
collection, access for software support, modification and interconnection) and only
when it is necessary for prevention or medical diagnosis, health care
or medical treatment or management of the health service.”

Likewise, “the claimant treated the data solely and exclusively for the purposes established
two and proceeded with his treatment in accordance with the instructions indicated by the Hospital
as data controller. Likewise, it could not process data for its own purposes
nor include personal data in products or services offered to third parties.” “The claimant is
treatment manager”. “The claimant at no time has acted as a responsible
treatment, since the appropriate technical and organizational measures were
applied by the Hospital, in compliance with the Data Protection regulations”.

3) About the causes that have motivated the incidence that originates the claim and measures
adopted, indicates:

“The Hospital has a procedure for managing merchandise contracting
a.
Useful and in charge of treatment by which the treatment of personal data is regulated.
personal nature of medical records by external physicians.”

“Given the incidence, they are going to review the LOPD management procedure in the

b.
mercantile dealings.”

“All the doctors are informed of the existence of the procedure.
c.
Data Protection management in commercial contracts and is transferred to
the importance of proper management following the established procedure.”

THIRD: On 10/22/2020, the admission to processing of the claim is agreed. With
dated 11/12/2020, a copy was also sent to the respondent. In the admission for processing,
expressly states that there is no administrative appeal in accordance with article 112.1 of the Law

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/26

39/2015, of 1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(LPACAP).

FOURTH: The respondent submits a document indicating that they are allegations, referring to the agreement
do of admission to procedure. They are summarized in the following:

1) Regarding the responsibility of the treatment, custody and storage of data of
patients by the Hospital, indicates that the contract signed on 10/1/2012 was for
provide the trauma medical emergency service, being the relationship between the parties
trade. “Said relationship consisted of the Hospital subcontracting the claimant so that
provide its services to the patients of the Hospital, including the access codes with the
insurance companies belong to the Hospital and not to the claimant, so the claimant
He only attended to the patients that the Hospital summoned him. In no case did he attend to his own
patients in the hospital facilities.

“For the services rendered to the Hospital, the claimant issued invoices as honora-
Professionals of the Hospital paid the claimant.”

2) “Due to an involuntary error in the drafting of the Seventh clause of the contract, it was included
He said that the Hospital assumes the status of treatment manager when what really
mind meant is that the Hospital was responsible for the treatment.

“Despite the error consigned in the contract, since the contractual relationship with
PROFESSIONALS, and in particular with the claimant, the Hospital has always acted
as data controller and the claimant has acted as data processor
I lie."

3) He cites the reports of the Legal Office of the AEPD 359/2002 and 449/2004 to consider
that the Hospital is the entity that collects patient data, as well as an obligation
tion that the LAP imposes on health centers.

4) The Hospital, considering the nature of the context and the purposes of the treatment,
applied the appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and demonstrate that the
treatment is in accordance with data protection regulations, also highlighting the im-
supplementation of the security measures with the obligation of the people who deal with
personal cough under his authority to follow the instructions of the Hospital (article 25 of the
GDPR).

5) You have a record of treatment activities that will allow you to demonstrate your compliance
treatment, has a technical instruction for the management of the record of treatment activity.
unto It also states that it has different procedures implemented for compliance
Compliance with Data Protection regulations.

6) The claimant has never acted as data controller and has not complied
fulfill its obligations established in article 24 of the RGPD. Nor did he make any repairs.
He did not object to any opposition when he rendered his services.

7) The Hospital was the one that “established the information system used instead of storage

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/26

nation, suppliers and so on”. “The claimant never treated the patient data
for their own purposes nor do I include them in products or services offered to third parties”
“At all times, the claimant complied with the technical and organizational measures contained
in the policies, procedures, technical instructions and clauses prepared by the Hospital
as responsible for the treatment, in compliance with the Data Protection regulations.
cough".

8) The Hospital has complied with all the obligations to safeguard and store the data of the
patients.

9) "The trauma emergency service of a Hospital is a central service of the same,
such as the radiology service and others that have this same consideration what in the am-
health care means that they are services to which patients go requesting a
specific health care, but not from a specific doctor, that is, they are not patients of
a doctor who attends his private practice, nor are they therefore patients of the doctor,
but patients who come to receive emergency health care whose service
center lends the Hospital.”

10) The Hospital was the one that directly billed the patients or their insurance companies.
providers for said assistance and “it was the physician who issued the invoices for
professional fees that the Hospital paid to it, the physician acting on behalf
of the hospital."

11) Considers that the contracts are not what the parties say they are, cites, among others, the
judgment of the Supreme Court, first chamber of 12/18/2019 appeal 1458/2016, “Los con-
deals are what they are, according to their legal nature, and not what the parties say they are.
are (irrelevance of the nomen iuris, for all, judgments 765/2010, of November 30;
and 335/2013, of May 7)”. It affirms that “the contract included an error that the development itself
of the relationship and obligations assumed by each party revealed its true nature.”

FIFTH: On 02/01/2021, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

“INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against IDCQ HOSPITALES Y SANIDAD, S.L.U.,
with CIF B87324844, for the alleged infringement of article 28.3.g) of the RGPD, in accordance with
ity with article 83.4 a) of the RGPD, and 74.k) of the LOPDGDD.

ORDER eventually, and as the result of the instruction to IDCQ HOSPITALS AND SANI-
DAD, S.L.U., the measures related to the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD.”

"For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1/10, of the Procedure
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that could
responding, without prejudice to what results from the investigation, would be an administrative fine of
100,000 euros.”

SIXTH: The respondent makes allegations on 02/17/2021, indicating:

1- Reiterates that there is an involuntary error in the seventh clause of the contract of 10/1/2021,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/26

where it was indicated that "professionals undertake to use information systems
existing hospitalization in the CENTER
 ”, which does not correspond if the Hospital
 
 
 
was a treatment manager. The parties were inverted, calling "in charge of
treatment” to the Management Company (that is, to the Hospital) and to the professionals who lease
They ban their services for the Hospital, as "responsible for the file". Consider that both the
claimant like the rest of the doctors who are part of the contract have always
adopted the legal position of treatment manager with respect to the Hospital, following the
instructions of the latter in relation to access to information systems and consequently
access to the clinical histories of the patients of the health center. The claimant never
assumed the position of data controller, since the relationship was terminated once,
who claimed the "work of it". The claimant, after the ruling, "using the
error in the wording of said clause takes advantage to claim the stories" "of the fathers
patients he attended in the center's emergency room”. The very wording of said clause
This limits the interpretation that the respondent is responsible for the treatment, since it is stated:
“Professionals undertake to use existing hospital information systems
in the center”, which would not correspond if the hospital were a treatment manager.
I lie. Regardless of this, it states that since the contractual relationship began
and in particular with the claimant, the Hospital has always acted as responsible for the treatment
processing and the claimant as the person in charge. It has not violated article 28.3.g) of the RGPD
because they have not acted as treatment manager

1- The contract was signed with more doctors, and if the clinical histories had been delivered,
cas of the patients, serious damages would have been caused to the patients, by not
having been able to access the other professionals to the records to provide them with assistance
medical.

2- Considering that it falls into confusion in the first fact of the resolution. With date
01/02/2001, IBÉRICA DE DIAGNÓSTICO Y CIRUGÍA, S.L., signed a service contract
of services with the claimant. Subsequently, on 10/1/2012, the same company signed
signed a contract for the provision of services with several professionals, including
contraba the claimant, so that they provide the trauma medical emergency service,
in the form and conditions established in said contract. In 2015, IBERICA DE
DIAGNOSIS AND SURGERY, S.L. was absorbed by IDCQ HOSPITALES Y SANIDAD, S.L.U.
The trauma emergency service of a hospital is a "Central Service" which in
health field means that they are services to which patients go requesting
specific health care, in this case hospital emergencies, but not that of a doctor.
specific, that is, they are not patients of a doctor who come to his private practice.
nor, therefore, are they patients of the doctor, but rather patients who come to receive medical
emergency health service whose central service is provided by the Hospital.

3-The aforementioned services are billed by the Hospital, either directly to the patient or to
through health insurers contracted by the patient.

In relation to billing with the different health insurers, the Hospital has formalized
signed contracts with most of them, with the Hospital holding the "access keys"
of the web pages of the companies, which means that it is the health center that is obliged
to record the activity of all its policyholders and to invoice the services provided by applying
do the rates stipulated in the contracts signed with them. It is the hospital that
invoice said services and “in no case the professionals who provide services in our

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/26

after installations.” Connects the claimed, the fact that the claimant was not the owner of
the codes mentioned to be able to invoice with which he provided services on behalf of the Hospital, without
that received fees directly from the patients, treating the health data of the
patients on behalf of the Hospital. In “no case did the claimant attend to his own parents.
patients in the hospital facilities. Contribute in doc. 1 page screen printing
access start-up lines to various health insurance companies.

The claimant issued invoices with fixed rates for services rendered, not for a specific patient.
However, in no case did he receive any payment from the patients. Provide document with
invoices years 2018 and 2019.

It indicates that based on legal basis III of JUDGMENT 1, the Hospital "being the
entity that collects payment from patients and manages their health care,
is the owner of the clinical records of the patients” gives them the reason that he is the owner of the records.
clinical trials.

4- The computer system used by the claimant to care for patients was “the pro-
pio of the Hospital”. The respondent has complied with the obligations set forth in articles 14
and 17 of the LAP. These obligations imposed exceed the instructions of the person in charge
of the treatment, making it impossible to apply article 28 of the RGPD, and to consider that
the hospital is a treatment manager.

5- Article 17.5 of the LAP is not applicable, since the claimant did not carry out his activity
individually, was not responsible for the management and documentation that it generated.
neraba In addition, the clinical history may contain care episodes of the claimant and
of other doctors from different specialties of the health center, which is why it is applied
article 17.4 of the LAP that supposes the custody of the clinical histories under responsibility
address of the health center.

6- Attach a copy of the registration of files in the RGPD under the protection of the LOPD art 26, of the do-
security document and audit certificate carried out under the regulations of the
LOPD and its Regulations. In another document accompanies the procedure by which it is governed
currently on applicable security measures.

7- Accompany a copy of the technical instruction for managing the registration of treatment activities.
ment and the corresponding registry. It also provides breach notification models
security and the interested party.

8- Within the contract with the claimant, the Hospital enabled the claimant access to
patient data to carry out:

- Healthcare treatment
- Consultation, collation, collection, access for software support, modification and interconnection,
and only when it was necessary for prevention or medical diagnosis, the provision
health care or medical treatment or the management of the health service.

SEVENTH: On 07/09/2021, a test practice period begins. They are given by re-
produced for such purposes the claim the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection Services and the Report of previous Inspection actions that form part
of file E/05820/2020 and allegations to the initial agreement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/26

In addition, it was decided to collect:

1. To claimant and respondent, regarding the provision of the claimant's services at the Center
toilet XXXXXXX,
 HOSPITAL XXXXXX
***LOCATION.2, must inform, accrediting their statements or providing documents
ments that confirm it if possible in the necessary points, the following aspects.

 ***LOCATION.2,

***ADDRESS 1,

  

a) It is requested that they provide a copy of the ruling of the Social Court No. 9 of ***LOCALI-
DAD.1, XXX/2019 of 07/22/2019 that is fully legible, the one provided in the claim
has extremes that are not.

In his response of 07/22/2021, the respondent provides a copy of the judgment.

The claimant on 07/28/2021 also provides a copy of the judgment.

b) Number of records (patients) and seniority managed by the claimant, and which provides
tion are automated and on other media, or if there are records for each patient from several
supports.
 
The respondent indicates that the claimant started his services in 1998, being the number of
patients attended by the claimant in the last five years, in emergency consultations
traumatology of about 12,000 patients.

The claimant does not know the number of patients, their seniority from the first contract is
01/02/2001 and the second on 10/01/2012. “The first years I made the clinical histories in
handwritten cards, from a date I do not know 2004, 2005, the computer of the
The hospital put me on a computer and explained to me how to make medical records in the system.
IT ma at the hospital. The handwritten cards were destroyed.”

Inform about the data collection information clause that was provided to the

c)
patients when their data was collected. Copy of the clauses contained.

Respondent provides a copy of document 2 and 3 with the clause. The first document refers
to when the LOPD was in force. It is an informative clause in a form of XXXXXX-
XX, ***LOCALIDAD.2 that refers to the LAP and informs patients, users and the general public
ral, of the purpose of the treatment of management and administration of health services, alu-
giving also to the invoicing of services. It indicates before whom to exercise the res-
aspect of the clinical history. The second document is the Data Protection clause of
personal character adjusted to the RGPD, indicating the sections of purpose, legitimacy,
recipients of the transfers, rights of the interested persons, origin of the data,
referred among other circumstances to the same management of health services and administration
treatment of the hospital, necessary for the healthcare of the patient.

It adds that “the patients treated by the claimant signed consents indicating
It clearly indicates that the hospital is responsible for the treatment”. Attach THREE forms
with consents signed by the patients cared for by the claimant as documentation
to nº 4, appearing as responsible "Hospital of ***LOCALIDAD.2" with the information of
data protection, with dates of 06/21/2018, 09/27/2018 and another of October, and guess
a patient signature on each sheet.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/26

Complainant indicates that “I am not aware that during all the time until I was dismissed from the
Hospital, it was not provided to the patients nor did they sign any information clause
data collection information”.

d)
Report how they answered and acted during the period in which they maintained the
relationship, to petitions related to the exercise of rights of those affected referred to
two to clinical history, accesses, transfers, etc. Providing accreditation if they had.

The respondent indicates that the requests are received and attended to by the Hospital. Have a
procedure in which it informs that the personal data is the responsibility of the entities
des that form the Hospital Group. Provide a copy of document No. 5: "technical instruction
for attention to Data Protection rights”, aimed at employees and facultative
you, with three modified versions, from July 2016 to April 2020. It regulates the
general conditions to comply with the legal obligation to attend exercise of
rights of those affected whose personal data is processed by GRUPO HOSPITALA-
RIVER XXXXX.

They provide in document No. 6 request for the exercise of rights of 2018 by a user in the
that cites three medical centers of the claimed person in ***LOCATION.2, urging the cancellation
of the clinical history, and the response given by the respondent on 06/09/2018.

Complainant indicates "I do not understand the question well", but to the "patients treated in con-
consultation, they were given a report of the medical attention in consultation, through the in-
hospital format, as well as discharge report to admitted patients and patients
who underwent surgery”.

e) Respond, have you received and processed, requested or resolved requests from patients for care?
ordered by the claimant to transfer the medical record at the request of the claimant?, and what
was answered.?

The respondent indicates no.

The claimant indicates that in the current consultation that takes place in ***LOCALIDAD.2, outside the Hospital
Chiron pital, many patients have asked me if I had their previous medical history, con-
testing them no. “No patient has brought me their clinical history from the Quirón hospital.”

f) Regarding relationships with patients, care relationship with the Hospital or
health center and with the claimant, it is requested that they detail and explain, different origins
of patients in relation to the legal basis from which they come, type of relationship that
covers the provision of said service and if it was distinguished in the database or was noted down
any distinction based on this, as well as the volume of patients expressed in relation
with the different bases of provision of the service.

The respondent indicates that in databases no distinction was made and annotation of
descriptions, because the provision of health care is carried out in the hospital whose
clinical history is under conservation and custody of the same as responsible for the treatment
I lie.

Attached as document No. 7 "procedure for managing admissions" initially approved

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/26

Initially in June 2014 and revised. Among others, it contains the performance by the staff of the
claimed from the admission of patients, registering in the computer system the provision
that is going to be carried out, the creation of a medical history number for the new patient,
ger requests for clinical documentation from the HHCC of patients”.

Patients can come from health companies, insurers and mutuals, organizations
We are public, hospitals, Junta de Comunidades de Castilla la Mancha, and private. This tipi-
fication of patients is necessary for the billing of the services provided by
of the hospital. Attached as document No. 8, procedure for invoicing the activities
data performed in the hospital.

The claimant indicates that “the patients that I treated at the facilities of the hospital XX-
XXX came from the healthcare companies that the hospital had arranged and from lists of
Surgical waiting for the SESCAM that the hospital arranged with said health organization
public".

g) What percentage of patients are estimated to have come from interventional modalities?
mediation of the hospital and that the claimant's own part?

The respondent indicates that all the patients come from the hospital, and that the citations for
All services are performed by the hospital admission service, as detailed in the
procedure for managing admissions, document no. 7.
The complainant indicates that “all the patients I have treated at the hospital, both in consultation
as in the operating room, they came from intermediary modalities of the hospital and none
by".

h) Indicate whether, with regard to the surgical interventions performed by the claimant on pa-
private clients of yours or private patients from a contract with insurers
medical, there was some differentiation in the treatment of their databases or in histories
clinics, and if the volume attended by this modality is differentiated.

The respondent indicates that "There was not and there is no differentiation in the treatment of
Hospital databases because they all were and are patients of the Hospital.”

Claimant indicates that he has never had private patients or contracted with any insurer
all patients were contracted by the hospital and all were listed in the database.
data from the computer system of the Hospital.

Yo)
Indicate if the claimant could have a contract with a health insurer and receive payments
patients with said origin, and if the same thing happened with the hospital, it could be the same insurer.
guarantor or there was some agreement on this aspect, or how this issue was resolved.

The respondent indicates that the claimant could not have a contract with any medical insurer.
in relation to patients treated at the Hospital, because the Hospital has formalized
two the contracts with the insurers, being the hospital the owner of the “access keys”
of the web pages of the companies, which means that it is the health center that is obliged
to record the activity of all its policyholders and to invoice the services provided by applying
do the rates stipulated in the contracts signed with them. Ultimately, the title
ity of said passwords determines that it is the Hospital that bills said services to its
patients and in no case the professionals who provide services in our facilities.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/26

nes. In the specific case of the claimant, he was never the holder of said access codes for
be able to bill insurers, which reveals that he provided his services on behalf of the
Hospital and that in no case received fees directly from the patients, treating
health data of patients on behalf of the Hospital. It is attached as a document
No. 9 screenshots of the home pages of various insurance companies…

Claimant indicates that he has never had a contract with any health insurer. All
patients were arranged by the hospital.

j) Who established the mode of access to the database of medical records?, -Per-
persons authorized to such information, detailing the aspects, and how it was organized
the aforementioned database.

The respondent indicates that “the Hospital established and establishes access to medical records
from the patients. The head of the Personnel Department makes a request for registration
through the request management application in which you attach a form
with the necessary data to access the applications. Once the request is received, the
IT department performs the registration in the security systems and the application to the
that you have to have access for your role. In this case, being a care professional, you are given
access to the medical records tool (through a named user and a
password that only the professional knows) IMDH, which is the access mode to the databases
medical record data.

“It is the IT department itself, which, once the resignation of a professor has been communicated,
by the Personnel department, proceeds to disable the users in the applications
nes”.

The claimant indicates “The hospital computer scientists”.

k) What requirements and security protocol did they have until they reached the bases?
of patient data contained in their medical records? Who managed the administration
system nistration? - Who determined the attention of the computer system?

The respondent indicates "the Hospital computer scientists manage the system, supported by a
external provider (INDRA). On the other hand, the Hospital has a Technical Instruction for Re-
vision of Access to Critical Systems, which regulate the general conditions to guarantee
Enforce compliance with the obligation to review access to the information systems
especially protected, such as the medical records of Hospital Group XXXXXXXXX by
part of their users. In this sense, said Technical Instruction states that
Access to the Clinical History within the scope of a health center is limited to the
health personnel who provide assistance to the patient, in order to guarantee their adequate diagnosis.
diagnosis and treatment and, the administration and management staff, exclusively in what
is necessary for the exercise of its own functions, as well as the records and reviews
ns of access to medical records”. Attached is the "Technical Instruction for the revision
of access to critical systems”, duly published, as document No. 10. The do-
The document refers to article 24 of the RGPD and the LAP, referring to access to the HC for the provision
sanitary station. Informs the staff of the access log, their review and periodicity.
unjustified access of these and the functions of the Information Security Committees.
mation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/26

Likewise, the Hospital has carried out the corresponding data protection audits
to check compliance with security measures and protection regulations
current data (in this period by the LOPD 15/99 it was mandatory that the person responsible for
treatment carry out audits). The security document version 3.0 date is attached
2016 where the security measures are detailed, covering the treatment centers,
equipment, systems, programs and media used by HOSPITAL XXXXXXXX ***LOCALI-
DAD.2 that covers three locations and for the staff of said location, including the files of
ownership of the HOSPITAL, which are attached to these documents”. The document refers
re, among others, the computer application where the medical records of patients are integrated,
digitization and storage of medical images and the certificate issued by the external auditor
terno XXXXX LEGAL ADVISERS who carried out the audit, as document No. 11, date-
Sun to 07/11/2016.

The claimant repeats: "the computer scientists of the hospital"

l) Regarding backup copies of information and data, how was it carried out?
dicity and systems used.

The complainant indicates that they are carried out by the systems team, as indicated in point
5.1.e) of the security document that appears in document number 11.

m) Report on how the reception system that the Hospital put into operation operated and functioned.
relation to the consultations that the claimant passed, and what it consisted of, indicating that
computer tools were used, who was the owner and what functions, benefits or services
vices offered to physicians contracted as the claimant. Indicate what data you accessed
that receiving service and who originally collected that data. in identical terms
about the system used to care for patients for the provision of care and that some
stored the medical records (software, hardware and information security document)
information, personal data and medical records that were handled).

The respondent indicates that "the patient reception system" is documented in the
“Procedure for managing admissions”, document No. 7, for which the Hospital uses
creates its own computer tool, as a product produced by the technology company
INDRA. With it, the services related to the care field of consultation are carried out.
tas, emergencies and operating room, as well as the preservation of the patient's clinical history. The
administrative staff of Hospital Admissions accesses the personal data file of
patient identification. For the provision of care and conservation of clinical histories
nicas (software, hardware and information security document, personal data and
medical records that were handled) the same IMDH system, indicated above, is used.

Complainant indicates that hospital admissions staff received calls from
patients and made appointments with them using the Hospital's computer system. "The
patient care, care provision and storage of medical records
it was always done in the hospital computer system.”

n) If they have invoices or payments for data custody, data processing equipment
or information systems, or expenses in general incurred by the operations
of treatment carried out with the data of the patients in medical attention / histories
clinics.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/26

The respondent indicates that he contracts the maintenance services of the information system
and also corrective maintenance. Provides a copy of document No. 12, "Maintenance
of the healthcare information system” with INDRA (01/01/2018 to 12/31/2018) that includes
among others, the care information system for care management. . When I had
the documentation kept on paper support hospital contracted a company for the ar-
goat and custody of the attached documentation invoice in document nº13.

Complainant indicates “this term corresponds to the hospital”.

ñ) Inform if before the entry into force of the RGPD the treatments and files of the aforementioned
hospital and service were registered in the AEPD Files and Treatments Registry,
providing a copy of your references.

The respondent indicates that “The files were duly registered in the Registry
General Data Protection of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, appearing
The Hospital is responsible for the treatment”. Attached document No. 14, press releases
04/27 and 05/11/2016 of the AEPD of the registration of files, including RESIDENTS, and
PATIENTS, related to the management of clients and clinical history, category of users
rivers: customers and users.
Complainant indicates “this term corresponds to the hospital”.

o) Adaptations made on the aforementioned treatments and files when it comes into force
the GDPR.

The claimant indicates a list of procedures, instructions, guides, clauses and contracts
that are part of the Hospital's data protection management system, published by
Hospital Group XXXXXXXX in the Hospital Quality System and on the intranet, at
Reason for adapting to the new data protection regulations. Provide document no.
15, screenshot of procedures, also available on the intranet, and in document no. 16,
procedure to prepare the Record of Treatment Activities contained in the "the
Technical Instruction for the management of the Record of Treatment Activities. “

Complainant indicates “this term corresponds to the hospital”.

p) In the contract signed between the claimant-claimant and other doctors, there is a clause
which indicates:

“In accordance with the provisions of article 12 of the LOPD, access by the Company
Manager of personal data contained in files that are the responsibility of the PROFE-
SIONALES, either for the use of the information systems of the Sociedad Gestora or
for the provision of the latter of common services that involve data processing
responsibility of the PROFESSIONALS, the Management Company will assume the condition of
charged with the treatment, in the terms of the LOPD, and must comply with the following obligations:
cations:

What file/s were the professionals responsible for?

If the professionals, claimant, issued instructions on access
What types of data did the Hospital or the personnel in charge of it have to access, with

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/26

what purpose?

The defendant indicates that "None of the files were the responsibility of the professionals",
and they already specified it in allegations. It was, due to an involuntary error in the wording of the clause
clause that the parties inverted, calling the company "in charge of processing"
managing entity (this is the Hospital) and the professionals who leased their services for the
Hospital, as “responsible for the file”. The true fact is that for as long as
The relationship between the Hospital and the aforementioned doctor lasted -as with the rest of the professionals-
contracted, which are also part of said contract-, all of them (including the claim-
ment) always adopted the position of "treatment manager" with respect to the hospital
(as Responsible for the file -today of treatment-) following the instructions of the latter.
mo in relation to access to information systems, and consequently to access to
medical records of the patients of the Health Center. The Hospital, as responsible for
Treatment, has complied with the obligations established in articles 14 and 17 of the
LAP, such as the conservation and custody of clinical documentation in conditions that
guarantee its correct maintenance and safety, for the proper assistance to patients
during the appropriate time of each care process.

The Hospital is the entity that collects the patient's data, and relates it to the article
14.2 and 17.1 of the LAP, considering that the clinical history may contain assisted episodes
potential provided by the claimant and other doctors from different specialties of the
health Center

Complainant indicates “no file is the responsibility of the professionals I never inhabited in-
access instructions”.

2. To claimant:

a) Type of computer equipment used in terms of the record of the consultations of
patients, if there was any extreme about it, contained in agreements signed with claims
mado, who was the owner of the team/teams. How were the aforementioned teams implemented?
with the conservation and storage of information, what types of servers were used
for it? What database did you use and what software did you use?

He states that the computer equipment he used was owned by the Hospital and has never been
used a computer or a computer system owned by him.

b) Contribution, if you have any document delivered to the claimed and received by it on
the express request of the data of the medical records that it considers its ownership.
He states that "he has no documents delivered to the Hospital."

3. To claimed:

a) Proof of having issued instructions, guidelines, clarifications to the other party
on data processing, the file, security measures, etc.

Indicates that: "prepares, publishes and communicates to health professionals the internal regulations
necessary for data processing and compliance with security measures
implanted by the Hospital. The internal regulations have been published by the Hospital Group
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/26

rio XXXXXXXXX in the Quality System of the Hospital and the intranet as we have indicated
in point 16. Likewise, the acknowledgment of receipt of said documentation due-
mind signed by the claimant as document No. 17, signed on 05/11/2015 in which
indicates that "it has received the internal regulations for healthcare professionals and staff
of administration and management of the Hospital in relation to the mandatory security measures
compliance for all authorized users.”

b) What protocol or action guidelines did you have when someone addressed the claim?
mented as a provider of medical care in matters of medical records and exercised his
right of access to your personal data or requested the medical history? Accreditation
if he had it.

It indicates that they have no record of any request for access addressed to the claimant regarding
rights, and that in "compliance with our procedure, if it had been carried out, it would have
to have submitted the request to the hospital as responsible for the treatment for your care
as in the cases of judicial claims or patrimonial responsibility”. Contribute do-
document 18 in which, upon a request for documentation from the medical inspection service
for patrimonial responsibility, requesting, among other things, a report from the trauma service
gia, from 03/18/2019.

c) The contract signed with the claimant indicated:

Carry out its activities in strict compliance with the obligations derived from

Organic Law 15/999 of 13/12, on the Protection of Personal Data (LOPD) as well
such as the adoption, implementation and compliance with security measures that are applicable
cables, in accordance with Royal Decree 1720/2007 that develops it, assuming exclusively
goes to any consequence of the infractions that may occur in this matter in
relation to the activities carried out in the leased facilities and exempting expressions
the Management Company of any responsibility."

The contract does not refer to any lease, but to the access and use of facilities
talaciones, please clarify this aspect.

It states that the contract does not regulate a lease of facilities, so it is a
It is wrong to include leased facilities because only the lease of services is regulated.
professional vices.

The invoices issued by the claimant correspond only to the services provided
in no case for lease of facilities.
 
Attached is a copy of the invoices issued by the claimed party to the claimant in document No. 19, dated Jan.
January to March 2019, including the personal income tax discount, list of treatments and amount per
each of them, indicating "Hospital Traumatology Service XXXXXX ***LOCALI-
DAD.2”.

b) How do you interpret and materialize the content of the clause of the contract, which indicates:

"4.5) Without prejudice to the duty of coordination inherent to work in any medical center,
PROFESSIONALS will be fully autonomous in the development of their activity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/26

The PROFESSIONALS must coordinate in a timely manner with the medical management of the
CENTER for the purpose of guaranteeing adequate service to patients.

Assistance must be provided in accordance with ethical, deontological and professional standards that
applicable, and will comply with the quality accreditation standards imposed by
the Sociedad Gestora at all times, and must be completed at all times when
These requirements establish the legal and regulatory provisions on management and
provision of medical services.”

It states that the fact that this clause is established refers to the fact that the professional
healthcare provider has autonomy to provide healthcare, diagnose and treat
to treat the patient, based on their professional criteria and that is, the main element of autonomy
The professional mine that doctors enjoy is the guarantee that they can issue
freely their professional opinion regarding the care and treatment of their patients.
patients, as established by the Declaration of the World Medical Association and the code
deontological

SIXTH: On 09/17/2021, a resolution proposal is issued with the literal:

“That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency file the infraction
tion of article 28.3.g) of the RGPD, to IDCQ HOSPITALES Y SANIDAD, S.L.U., with CIF
B87324844, as determined in article 83.4 a) of the RGPD, typified for the purposes of providing
as determined in article 74.k) of the LOPDGDD, with a fine of 100,000 euros.
ros.”

Against the proposal no arguments are received

SEVENTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
tion in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant requests in his claim, that he was prevented by the claimed
when the contract was terminated, access to patient medical record data to the
that he attended, and that he considers it contrary to data protection regulations.

SECOND: The claimant provides a judgment of the Social Court No. 9 of ***LOCA-
LIDAD.1, no. XXX/2019 of 07/22/2019 on dismissal against the claimed. In the same
fails the "incompetence of the social jurisdiction to know the demand origin of the
these actions promoted by the claimant…” against the claimed one “and I acquit
the one claimed from the claims deduced against him”. On the basis of law
Second, it states:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/26

it is “considered that the legal relationship between the parties is not of a labor nature because the
actor enjoyed the freedom to organize his work without being subject to a day or schedule or to
governing or disciplinary organizational regime of the defendant.

The plaintiff for interest agrees to have the physical space in the hospital to spend
consultation and the operating room the use of these physical and productive elements for the plaintiff
the defendant received income 25% of the fees received for the activity of
consultation, the plaintiff did not submit, beyond what is proper in a contract
commercial service leasing to orders or guidelines of an organizational nature of the
hospital itself, the plaintiff was completely free to set his hours, days of consultation, use
of the operating room, the plaintiff was free to use the assigned facilities,
freedom to schedule your medical consultation and operating room activity, logically once
informed the reception of the hospital of the days of consultation and hours, you must notify with
prior to receipt to carry out modifications and cancellations. He fixed his
vacations and the activity was suspended.

It is not subject to orders and instructions from the defendant beyond the order of
attend to a certain patient on whom he should, if he accepted, carry out the activity
professional. He was registered in the RETA census as a self-employed worker.

He received prior remuneration the extension of the corresponding invoices, of different
amounts. That the bills were made by a hospital employee does not undermine the
reality of the person issuing the invoice for tax purposes and creditor.

As proven facts it was indicated:

"FIRST: The defendant is dedicated to hospital activities, general medicine and
specialized, and surgery, with private hospital centers that work with the
insurers, concerts with public health and private patients.

SECOND: On 10/1/2012, the parties signed a service lease agreement
by virtue of which, the plaintiff, as a doctor specialized in traumatology, agrees with the
respondent pass consultation and carry out the activity of the operating room in Hospital XXXXXX
of *** LOCATION.2 (XXXX).

Using the physical space of the hospital as a private practice and the operating room to carry out
scheduled operations to your private patients and patients with health insurance
private. The plaintiff contributing his personnel and non-expendable materials to assist in the
surgical interventions and consultations except the reception that is a service that gives the
hospital.

THIRD: The plaintiff had a consultation at the hospital, consultation area,
that has a reception of calls, a service that collects calls and gives
Appoints patients who come to the plaintiff's consultation, respecting the indications
of days and hours marked by the plaintiff.

The patients who come to be treated by the plaintiff are people from
private insurers or private patients who are interested in consultation with the plaintiff in
the days and times set by the actor.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/26

FOURTH: The remuneration, the fees, the parties agreed that by consulting the
actor received 75% and the other 25% for the defendant for the physical space of consultation in
the reception.

If the plaintiff carried out operating room activity, he will receive 100% of the fees
and the company receives as consideration the expenses charged to the patient or the
insurance carrier.

FIFTH: The plaintiff is voluntarily included in the clinical picture of the
insurers that also have an agreement with the defendant patients / insured
they choose within the medical chart that their insurer has.

The plaintiff receives his fees in accordance with the rates established by the
private insurer. Of this amount, as agreed, the plaintiff receives the
75% and 25% the defendant.

The plaintiff, if he received patients who did not have private insurance, could charge
directly to the patient or who is paying the amount at the reception of the hospital and
During these times, the hospital also received 25%.

The invoicing of the claimant depends on the activity carried out, such as consultations and
operating room, they are not identical depending on the work you do.

The plaintiff has his material means for the activity of consultation and operating room, the
hospital gives you the consumables.

SIXTH: Since 2013, it is part of the special regime for workers
autonomous.

The plaintiff does not have exclusivity and has his own private activity outside the hospital.

The plaintiff is not subject to a schedule, he organizes his agenda and his days of consultation.
He did not participate in training activities or conferences held by the defendant
You have access to the employee portal.

SEVENTH: Once the applicant has presented the invoice, it is paid within a period of
60 days.

EIGHTH: The plaintiff received for the period 03/1/2018 to 02/28/2019, the amount of
€205,267.13 for consultation activity, operating room and emergency care
traumatology that also receives its fees per patient treated in the service of
emergencies.

NINTH The company notified the plaintiff on 12/26/2018 of the termination of the lease of the
services that united the parties, with effect from February 28, 2019.”

THIRD: The claimant had a first service provision contract with the respondent.
cios, signed on 01/02/2001 (it is not the one mentioned in its social ruling), and another of
10/1/2012, the one mentioned in the social ruling, which affects the claimant), between

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/26

the defendant (Management Company) and several medical graduates (PROFESSIONALS),
each in their own name, including the claimant.

The literal of the contract appears and is reproduced for evidentiary purposes in the antecedent PRIME-
RO.

FOURTH: The respondent stated that the record in the contract of his position as en-
loaded treatment is by mistake. It is credited:

- The respondent states that the claimant provided his services in trauma emergencies-
lodge. He claimed that "In the early years I made the clinical histories in written records
by hand, from a date I do not know 2004, 2005, the hospital's informatics me
he set up a computer and explained to me how to make the clinical histories in the computer system
of the hospital. The handwritten cards were destroyed.”

-The data collection information was provided by the claimed party in forms in
which indicated that the person responsible for the treatment is the hospital, which attaches copies of
printed with consents signed by patients cared for by the claimant, in which
that appears as responsible for data processing, the hospital, with different dates in ju-
September or October 2018. The claimant was unaware of the existence of those documents
informative as indicated in tests.

-The claimant stated in evidence that the patients seen in consultation were trained-
gaba medical care report in consultation through the hospital computer system,
as well as a discharge report for admitted patients and patients who underwent
a surgical intervention.

-The claimant has a procedure for the management of admissions approved in June of
2014 and revised. Indications are contained by for the staff of the claimed admission
to patients, registering the computer system, in the provision that is going to be made, the
creation of the medical record number to the new patient, and to collect the requests for
clinical documentation from the clinical history of patients.
 
-According to the defendant, patients can come from health companies such as insurance-
and mutual, public bodies, Castilla la Mancha Community Board and private
two, being necessary the differentiation of the origin for the invoicing of the services
provided by the hospital. The claimant indicated that the patients treated at the
hospital facilities came from the healthcare companies that the hospital had
certified and SESCAM surgical waiting lists that the hospital arranged with said
public health agency.
The claimant indicated that all the patients he treated at the hospital, both in consultation
as in the operating room, they came from intermediary modalities of the hospital and none
for your part.

The claimant stated that he had never treated private patients nor had any
deal with any health insurer. All patients were recruited for the hospital.
such and all appeared in the database of the hospital's computer system

-The defendant established the method and form of access to the medical records of the pa-
clients through its personnel department, granting user registrations through

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/26

of a management application, with the IT department registering in the systems
safety issues care staff were given access to the history tool
clinics through username and password the claimant indicates that the access modalities
so to the database of medical records was provided by computer scientists of the
hospital.

-The requirements and security protocols that existed until accessing the
medical records in the databases were managed and administered by the claimed to
through a contract with an external treatment commissioner. In this sense, the claimant
states that it was the responsibility of the hospital's computer scientists.

-The respondent also states that the patient reception system is included in the
procedure for the management of admissions carried out by the administrative staff
hospital itself, while the claimant states that admission to the hospital
of the calls were received in the hospital's computer system, and that patient care
patients the provision of care and storage of medical records was carried out
always in the hospital computer system

-The defendant provides invoices for the maintenance of the management and custody of equipment
data processing and information systems, while the claimant stated that these
procedures corresponded to the hospital

-The defendant accredits the registration of the resident and patient files carried out
with the validity of the LOPD, while the claimant states that this corresponded to the
hospital.

-The respondent also has documentation that accredits the updating of the treaties-
procedures and files to the RGPD, as well as the record of treatment activities, while
that the claimant stated that this term corresponded to the hospital.

-The claimant stated that the computer equipment he used to manage the
medical records was owned by the hospital and had never used a computer or system.
computer ma of your property.

-The defendant: "prepares, publishes and communicates to health professionals the international regulations
na necessary for data processing and compliance with security measures
implanted by the Hospital. Attach the acknowledgment of receipt of said documentation duly
signed on 05/11/2015 by the claimant as document No. 17, which indicates that
“has received the internal regulations for healthcare professionals and administrative personnel
Hospital management and management in relation to mandatory security measures
ment for all authorized users.”

-The respondent provides invoices issued to the claimant in which the relationship of trafficking is included-
payments and amount for each of them, indicating "hospital traumatology service XX-
XXXXXX ***TOWN.2.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/26

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 4 of the RGPD indicates:

II

 "two). “processing”: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or
no, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression
or destruction;

“6) “file”: any structured set of personal data, accessible according to criteria.
certain criteria, whether centralized, decentralized or distributed functionally or
geographical;

7) “responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person, public authority,
public, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and means
of the treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the purposes and
means of treatment, the person responsible for treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the Member States;

8) “in charge of the treatment” or “in charge”: the natural or legal person, public authority,
ca, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the person responsible for the
treatment;"
Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of data controller and data processor
treatment in the RGPD, adopted on 09/02/2020 in its preamble indicates:

“The concepts of data controller, joint data controller and en-
charged with processing play a crucial role in the application of the General Regulation.
General Data Protection 2016/679 (GDPR), since they determine who will be responsible
of compliance with the different data protection regulations and how the interested parties
can exercise their rights in practice. …”
The concepts of data controller, joint data controller and en-
charged with the treatment are functional concepts insofar as they have as their object
assign responsibilities according to the actual functions of the parties and concepts
autonomous in the sense that they must be interpreted primarily in accordance with the legislation
EU data protection regulation.

By examining the five basic requirements of the data controller, I would establish indi-
directly those of the manager. The principles would be:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/26

1-«natural or legal person, public authority, service or other body»
2-« that determines »
3- «alone or jointly with others»
4-« the purposes and means »
5-« of the processing of personal data ».

In principle, there is no limitation as to the type of entity that can assume the payment.
role of data controller, but in practice it is usually the organization as such, and
not an individual within the organization (such as the CEO, an employee, or a member of the
board), which acts as data controller.

A controller is a body that decides certain key elements of the treatment.
I lie. Control can be defined by law or can be derived from an analysis of the elements
facts or circumstances of the case. Some treatment activities may be considered
be naturally linked to the role of an entity (an employer to employees, a
publisher to subscribers or an association to its members). In many cases, the terms
of a contract can help identify the data controller, although they are not
decisive in all circumstances.

A data controller determines the purposes and means of the processing, i.e.
the why and how of the treatment. The respondent formulated the rights care policy,
information from them about the medical records, file registration of the treatment of
data.
In this case, involving the clinical history data, article 14.2 of the LAP states:
“Each center will file the medical records of their patients, whatever the support.
paper, audiovisual, computerized or of another type in which they appear, so that they remain
guaranteed its security, its correct conservation and the recovery of the information”,
adding article 17.1 that "Health centers have the obligation to preserve the
clinical documentation in conditions that guarantee its correct maintenance and
security, although not necessarily in the original support, for the due assistance to the
patient for the time appropriate to each case and, at least, five years counted
from the discharge date of each care process”.

Article 17.4 of the LAP establishes that "the management of clinical records by centers with
hospitalized patients or those who care for a sufficient number of patients under any
any other care modality, according to the criteria of the health services, how it will be carried out
through the admission and clinical documentation unit, in charge of integrating in a single
File medical records. The custody of said medical records will be under the responsibility
reliability of the management of the health center.”

At the same time, the above is clarified, in relation to the professionals who exercise the
medicine privately, providing article 17.5 of the LAP: "Health professionals
who carry out their activity individually are responsible for the management and
custody of the healthcare documentation they generate”.

In any case, the completion of the clinical history in the aspects related to the
Direct assistance to the patient will be the responsibility of the professionals who intervene in
it, that they have a duty to cooperate in the creation and maintenance of documentation
orderly and sequential clinic of the patient care process.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/26

It is also relevant that the purpose of the clinical history is the direct relationship
of the exercise of patient rights with access to clinical documentation through the
request for access to the data that comprise it. Both aspects will be related in this
process. An attempt will be made to verify whether it is true that the claimant holds, for purposes of
data protection the responsibility that derives from the management, custody and storage
argument that it advocates and therefore, the defendant is the one that does not correspond to said role
meet the legal requirements that consider it not responsible for said data and treatment.
to, being initially imputed for that reason.

In this case, the claimant obtained a judgment regarding dismissal, declaring the
jurisdictional incompetence. The access to data of the claimant was executed by virtue of the
Signed service lease agreement. It is not proven that the claimant had
in some way: technical, organizational, legal, informative of rights of protection of
data to patients, the organization of the purposes or means of data processing. The
claimant provided services by virtue of which there is a relationship of dependency,
in this case non-work, showing a total care relationship between patients and the center
sanitary.

The consignment in the contract signed with the defendant and other professionals is not
decisive, and analyzed the functions carried out in the data processing by both
parties it is concluded that the claimant professional dumped his opinion in the database
diagnosed in each medical care he provided to patients who came to the
claimed, in the organization of the claimed that included not only the physical spaces, but
as here accredited in the technical, legal and information decision-making field of the
patients, including their data. Without the patients, the computer systems and the
decisions on implementation of data and information collection information
on patient rights carried out by the defendant, it would not have been possible to
data processing. The one that has articulated the technical and organizational means has been the
claimed, which, therefore, holds the ownership of the obligations imposed on the
responsible for the treatment. When a user of the system, as in this case the
claimant is terminated the contract, you must have no access to the data of which
the defendant is responsible. This, logically, regardless of whether a patient
can request a copy of his medical history from the person claimed and go to his services, a right that
is contemplated in the LAP.

It is not possible to become responsible for the treatment because the literal of the contract so
point out, or avoid the obligations of the data controller simply by configuring
the contract in a certain way when the factual circumstances say something else
as in this case.

It is not observed that the claimant met any requirement to be considered
responsible for the treatment, so that in no way can it be considered for the purposes of
data protection responsible for the file or treatment, circumstances that, if
comply with the defendant, which implies that the infraction imputed to the defendant becomes
a file because it is not considered such.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/26

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE the infraction attributed to IDCQ HOSPITALES Y SANIDAD, S.L.U.,
with CIF B87324844, of article 28.3.g) of the RGPD, provided for in article 83.4 of the RGPD,
typified for prescription purposes in article 74.k) of the LOPDGDD, and its fine of
€100,000.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to IDCQ HOSPITALS AND HEALTH,
S.L.U...

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the
day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through
any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1
october. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that accredits the
effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency did not have
knowledge of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two
months from the day following the notification of this resolution, I would consider
The precautionary suspension has ended.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the AEPD, P.O. the Deputy Director General of Data Inspection, Olga Pérez
Sanjuan, Resolution 4/10/2021

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

