




"Data protection: illness or therapy?" - data protection conference for hospitals and clinics in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania








No.20191015
|
15.10.2019
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Mecklenburg-West Pomerania, Heinz M端ller, invites you to the conference "Data protection: illness or therapy?", which will take place on October 28, 2019 from 10:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The conference is aimed at management, data protection officers, doctors, nurses and administrative staff in hospitals and clinical facilities in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and is free of charge for the participants.
Since 2018, Heinz M端ller has been increasing his efforts to help hospitals and clinics in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania implement the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). At the same time as the introduction of the GDPR, the state commissioner started the project "Handling patient data in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania's hospitals (UPDK)", in which the state commissioner spoke directly to the hospitals and clinics about the challenges of implementing the new regulations of the DS-GVO wants to inform.
During the course of the project, the desire of the participants in the "UPDK" project for a specialist conference became clear. As a result, Heinz M端ller, together with the M-V hospital company and the data protection officer of the Nordkirche, developed the concept of the desired specialist conference, which is aimed at all employees of the hospitals and clinics. The state representative relies on the format "listen, talk and find solutions together!"
The areas of psychotherapy, psychosomatic medicine and care will be particularly highlighted, and their representatives will also report on their experiences in dealing with the GDPR. These areas already played a special role in the selection of the hospitals in the "UPDK" project, since very personal and intimate data of people is processed there.
Heinz M端ller emphasizes: "Hospitals have not only been familiar with data protection since the GDPR came into force, but it contains new regulations, for example with regard to the disclosure and information obligations, which still cause uncertainties in the practical implementation." Here, he considers support to be urgent necessary.
In particular, the state commissioner also invites journalists and the public media to take part in the data protection conference in order to get an idea of the effects of the GDPR on hospitals and clinics in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.
Detailed information and a registration form for the conference can be found on the website of the data protection authority (https://www.datenschutz-mv.de/).









                Back to overview









