1/13

 File No.: EXP202203916

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 23, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
transcribe:

<<

File No.: EXP202203916

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated March 7, 2022
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in
forward, the claimed party or Vodafone). The reasons on which the claim is based
are the following:

The claimant states that, on February 9, 2022, it contracted the services of
mobile telephony with Vodafone.

Thus, on that day he received an SMS from the entity Llamaya (Xfera
Mobiles), indicating “Your mobile portability has been rejected. call us for
provide us with the correct ownership data”. The claimant indicates that this was the
first attempt to steal the line, since he had just contracted with Vodafone and did not
had requested any portability to Llamaya

He adds that, on February 12, 2022, someone on his behalf purchased a duplicate of the
SIM card in a physical Vodafone store. He found out about this fact on the 26th of
February 2022 when going to make a request to another Vodafone store.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

Likewise, it indicates that, as of February 20, 2022, it ceases to have access to its line
of mobile telephony and, when contacting Vodafone, they tell you that your line has been ported
to Llamaya (not having been requested by the claimant) for which he requests to recover the
line, but Vodafone informs you that the portability has been rejected for not matching
ownership data.

On the other hand, the claimant contacts the new operator (Llamaya) and tells him
that, in their systems, it appears that it was the claimant who requested the portability
controversial and that, at present, the ownership of the line corresponds to a third party.

And, provide the following relevant documentation:

Vodafone invoice corresponding to the month of February of the year 2022.

Vodafone invoice relating to the disputed duplicate SIM card (dated 12
February 2022), in the name of the claimant, appearing as the delivery address
one other than yours.

Screenshot of Llamaya's message, warning of the rejection of a supposed first
portability request.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on April 26, 2022 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On May 27, 2022, this Agency received a written response
indicating:

"After carrying out the appropriate investigations into what happened, it is confirmed that there is
in the Vodafone systems that on February 12, 2022 a duplicate was requested
of the SIM card corresponding to the line ***TELEPHONE.1 owned by the claimant.
Said request was processed through a physical establishment, specifically in the
store ***STORE.1 through the user ***USER.1.

Vodafone has proceeded to request a copy of the
necessary documentation provided for the SIM duplicate process, but, for
reasons unknown to this party, the establishment has not been able to facilitate the
documentation requested, for which the store will be penalized following the policy of
Vodafone due to the fact that the obligation of documentary custody is an obligation of the
establishments.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

Notwithstanding the foregoing, all SIM changes made by Vodafone exceed the
security policy established for this purpose.

A letter has been sent to the claimant through which we have proceeded to
inform you of the steps that were carried out by Vodafone to solve
the incidence. In this sense, a copy of the letter is attached as Document number 1
sent to the claimant, in which he is informed that what happened was declared as
fraudulent by the Vodafone Fraud Department and have implemented
additional security measures on the customer account of the claimant so that
these events will not be repeated. Likewise, in the aforementioned letter the
complainant of the security policies available to Vodafone to prevent the
making duplicate SIM cards.

The incident arose, as indicated by the claimant, because on the 12th of
February 2022 a SIM duplicate was made on your mobile line ***TELEPHONE.1
without your consent. Said change was managed in person at a point
of sale Vodafone located in ***LOCATION.1. In this sense, once put in
knowledge of my client the existence of a duplicate SIM obtained without the
consent of the claimant, Vodafone proceeded to carry out all those procedures
necessary to return control to the claimant over his mobile line and declared the
happened as a fraudulent act. It also proceeded to implement all
the necessary additional security measures by activating the victim check of
fraud on your Vodafone customer ID to prevent this incident from happening again
produce in the future.

This part wants to point out that the effective management of a change of SIM card entails
the overcoming of the security policies that Vodafone has implemented in order to
prevent fraudulent practices on the personal data of their
customers. In this sense, and having processed said management subject to said policy
security, my client understood at all times that they were
lawful, real and truthful efforts. Regarding the portability requested to the
operator Llamaya on the claimant's mobile line, this part confirms that this
was canceled on February 16, 2022 after Vodafone received a request for
cancellation of portability by the claimant himself. so this part
can confirm that the mobile line ***PHONE.1 is still active in the
Vodafone under the ownership of the claimant.

Therefore, my client managed to solve the incident that is the object of the claim of
final form prior to the receipt of this requirement by
from the agency.

On the other hand, in order to prevent similar incidents from occurring, Vodafone works
continuously in improving Security Policies for their change processes
and SIM duplicates as well as for any other process that entails possible
risks of fraud or irregular actions for our clients. In this sense,
Since March 14, 2012, Vodafone has been acting under the Security Policy
for the Hiring of Individuals, which has been progressively updated, and
whose last modification has been implemented on September 30, 2021.
Through said Security Policy, my client establishes what type of
information must be required from the client for each requested management. Also, it remains

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

including how to proceed in case a user does not pass the Security Policy,
as well as preventive actions in fraud situations. The aforementioned
Security Policy is mandatory for all After Sales Services
Vodafone, who are in charge of applying and respecting it. Attached as Document
number 3 copy of Vodafone's security policy for individuals.

With regard to SIM card duplicates, it should be noted that the objective of
Vodafone is that all duplicates or card changes are made
face-to-face, since it is the safest way to guarantee that processes do not take place
irregular or fraudulent and that, when the management to be carried out requires overcoming the
Security Policy, the client must carry their original ID. In regards to the
processing of a duplicate SIM in person, as was the case that we
occupies, this Security Policy provides that, in order to carry out a SIM change in
store, the holder of the client account must go with his identity document
original to be able to change the SIM. In addition, as of May 30, 2019,
Vodafone has established as an additional security measure the obligation to
make and keep a photocopy of the identity document presented by the client,
as proof of the SIM duplication operation requested and carried out.
Additionally, my client also established a penalty of €300 to the
dealer who does not comply with this premise. Attached is provided as Document
number 3 copy of the statement issued by Vodafone on May 30, 2019,
in which it is observed in the last point related to "New SIM Change Policy"
(page 7) the procedure that has been described above.

In the case at hand, and without prejudice to having confirmed that the
established security policy, Vodafone has requested the store that processed the
duplicate SIM the documentation proving the applicant's identity and, since there is no
dispose of it, has imposed disciplinary measures on said establishment
corresponding.

In any case, if the processing of a SIM change and/or a change of ownership
exceed the previous Vodafone Security Policies, the
carrying out such procedures in accordance with what is indicated in said Policies, when considering
I represented the change as authentic, real and truthful. Not being able to represent me
knowing that a third party stole the claimant's data without their consent.
Likewise, internal processes are being reviewed to ensure that they comply with
the defined Security Policies or introduce the necessary changes when
consider pertinent.

Specifically, my client is working on the continuous improvement of: • Review of
internal processes to ensure compliance with Security Policies and
verification controls that have been defined and incorporated, both in channel
face-to-face and by telephone, for duplicate SIM scenarios.

• Periodic reinforcement of communication of Security Policies and verifications
that have been defined by Vodafone for SIM duplicates and that must be
applied by agencies, commercial stores and agents.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

• Sending periodic communications to the face-to-face and telephone channel, as well as to the
logistics operator, where it is alerted to the risk scenarios detected, its
characteristics and behavior patterns to prevent new cases.

• Application -if applicable-, of the existing Penalty Policy for agents or
distributors who carry out any duplicate or change of a SIM card without having
required documentation or to carry out any SIM change management without
Follow all the steps defined in the Security Policy.

Attached as Document number 4, a report on the steps taken by
Vodafone to solve this incident”.

THIRD: On May 31, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of article 6
of the RGPD, "Legacy of the treatment", which indicates in its section 1 the assumptions in which
that the processing of data by third parties is considered lawful:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following is fulfilled
conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply.
application to processing carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their
functions”.

 The infringement is typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

to)
consent in accordance with articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The Organic Law 3/2018, of Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infractions
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (U.E.) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

to)
The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

II

In the present case, it is proven that a Vodafone physical establishment
provided a duplicate SIM card of the complaining party to a third party, without his
consent and without verifying the identity of said third party. Thus, the defendant, not
verified the personality of the person who requested the duplicate SIM card, did not take the
necessary precautions so that these events do not occur.

Based on the foregoing, in the case analyzed, the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

diligence used by the defendant to identify the person who requested
a duplicate SIM card.

Well, it is accredited as recognized by the claimed party in its writ of
response to this Agency dated May 27, 2022, << The incident was
originated, as indicated by the claimant, because on February 12, 2022 the
 ***PHONE.1 without your
made a duplicate SIM on your mobile line
consent. Said change was managed in person at a point of
sale Vodafone located in ***LOCATION.1. In this sense, once put in
knowledge of my client the existence of a duplicate SIM obtained without the
consent of the claimant, Vodafone proceeded to carry out all those procedures
necessary to return control to the claimant over his mobile line and declared the
happened as a fraudulent act. It also proceeded to implement all
the necessary additional security measures by activating the victim check of
fraud on your Vodafone customer ID to prevent this incident from happening again
produce in the future>>.

In accordance with the evidence available at this procedural moment and
without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the procedure, it is estimated that the
conduct of the claimed party could violate article 6.1 of the GDPR and may be
constituting the offense classified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation
2016/679.

In this sense, Recital 40 of the GDPR states:

"(40) For processing to be lawful, personal data must be processed with the
consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established in accordance
a Law, either in this Regulation or under other Union law
or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation, including the
the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the data controller or the
need to execute a contract to which the interested party is a party or for the purpose of
take measures at the request of the interested party prior to the conclusion of a
contract."

IV.

The determination of the sanction that should be imposed in the present case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the GDPR, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:
"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”
"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to certification mechanisms.
fications approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
as the financial benefits obtained or the losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

 Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled "Sancio-
and corrective measures”:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of
the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the fine to
impose on the entity claimed as responsible for an infringement classified in the
article 83.5.a) of the GDPR and 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD, in an initial assessment,
The following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

As aggravating factors:

-

The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
treatment of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the
GDPR in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD).

   The Judgment of the National Court of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006), in which,
with respect to entities whose activity entails the continuous processing of
customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court has understood that
recklessness exists whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is
that is, when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the
assessment of the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now
examined, when the appellant's activity is constant and abundant
handling of personal data must insist on rigor and exquisite
Be careful to comply with the legal provisions in this regard.”

As mitigations:

The claimed party proceeded to resolve the incident that is the subject of the claim
effective (art. 83.2 c).

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the defendant and set it at the amount of 70,000
€ for the alleged violation of article 6.1) typified in article 83.5.a) of the
cited GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397, for the alleged violation of article 6.1) typified in the
Article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned GDPR.
SECOND: APPOINT as instructor D. B.B.B. and as secretary to Ms. C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the provisions
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime
co of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be for the infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR,
typified in article 83.5 a) of the GDPR, the sanction that would correspond would be a
fine for an amount of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros) without prejudice to what is
of the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A80907397 granting a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed other than a fine, may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to the present initiation agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% for the sanction that should be imposed
in this proceeding, equivalent in this case to fourteen thousand euros (€14,000).
With the application of this reduction, the amount of the sanction would be established in
fifty-six thousand euros (€56,000), resolving the procedure with the imposition
of this sanction.
In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, in
accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean a
reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to fourteen thousand
euros (€14,000), for the alleged offence. With the application of this reduction, the
amount of the sanction would be established at fifty-six thousand euros (€56,000) and
Your payment will imply the termination of the procedure.
The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at forty-two thousand euros (€42,000).
In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.
In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated, 56,000 euros or 42,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for reducing the amount to which
welcomes.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On October 21, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 56,000 euros using one of the two
reductions provided for in the Commencement Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, there has not
The acknowledgment of responsibility has been accredited.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202203916, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

937-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

