In the matter of the General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act 2018

DPC Case Reference:
06/s1U/2018

In the matter of Galway County Council

Decision of the Data Protection Commission made pursuant to Sections 111 and 124 of the
Data Protection Act 2018

Further to an own-volition inquiry commenced pursuant to Sections 110 and 123 of the
Data Protection Act 2018

DECISION

Decision-Maker for the Data Protection Commission:

‘© Helen Dixon

Commissioner for Data Protection
22 August 2023

An Coimisiun um
Chosaint Sonrai
Data Protection
Commission

Data Protection Commission
21 Fitzwilliam Square South
Dublin 2, Ireland

YEG CEIGIN, cece wersencnnnes rn ann muse nem saunanae nem enme nus sanneeaanes santana enna una oane onegesensnenqees bolt Kssibe b8ies.70n Kes Wai eae mn® wm asta 3
SuMmMary Of Factual BaCkground..........cccssccccccsssececsssseccssseensenscesecsseessnssnsessresecessserersseeseseneseenseaneseneaeys 3
TOPICS ArISINg in this DECISION ............cccccssssscesssccessseescssnescesssenenesscesenseseesesseseessnseeedseesessenenenassatanenners 7
Legal regime pertaining to the inquiry and the De@CISION .............:ccccccssesssrnressererteessceeeeseetessesnsnanoanenss 8
Data COMED EE ne. conoces nna: nomen quee nannceasem eaamems¢martbe rice mans eaaingamn ns enatenes tna «hd SRKASTREG THE) F™ oi oo wee nate Mee Manes eee 13
Personal Data ........ccccssccsccccccccesecessacseseceseneesacssceseeeseasaneetensoneseseeeeseesudanaeeaeeesernenececeesnsacuasssassassasaneanage 13
Analysis and findings ...........:...ccssccccsssencecssssecececescaeseecessaenssaeonessaaaesensasecseanensesauseseonengeeteseensasecssanesons 14

A. Legal bases for the surveillance technologies employed for the purposes of preventing,

investigating, detecting OF PrOSECUTING CHIME...........cccessesesceceesesseesesnssnsensnscsnnscssetssesensesrnansseesenenenass 14
A) CCTV Cameras ......sscsrsssssssssesssscecsenccccssnscetssasecesecesensesensenantneseassasausaenseaeatoneosesusenceasseendnsnasaanaseeens 14
b) ANPR CameraS......ccccccscessccssssssssecssrscseossecseecetsscsneceeuseenssesssscesesessenenenascseenecasenevssneecsssenesasaanaens 18

B. Legal bases for the surveillance technologies employed for purposes other than for preventing,
investigating, detecting OF PrOSECUTING CLIME.......... cc cecseensssseeeerensessesseeenseessssenenesseeserereseesnnaeesanees 19
J) ANPR CamMeraS.....sscesesccncnter see secennes nevtecneeonnnes crnnntenn raeyenn inettansonne ten tanegentecsnsonstas nis aisenes menses deena es 19
b) Body WOrn CaMelra5S.........:ssscscecsesscecesssececerensrsccersnseesseesersssasencsssssansasasenseeseessaeeensesersnseesesanenenens 21
C. Appropriate signage and general transparency 00... es eee cscs essssecesseneenseresersreeenananecenensnaas 23
Gi) COTY Caras. ce. cis sxscennes ess non sunncen pecacensinnaen orn r mex yemeyeor nears Hb OLE HEA HARASS Fewea ee Ken vad chloe Mate Sem HN 23
D. Technical and organisational M@ASUIES............ccssccssssseseresesssresceressessenesssteesessensesunsespeneatenenaaasens 27
A) CCTV Camera .....ceccccsssscssssccsssesessvsrscnsnscceessenereisesecasenecoececenenesnsessarsasaesueeensesssaseaetaneecenaeaetanaeeaes 27
E. DPO Access to CCTV Systems ..........cscsssssssoresecscnsrersesvesrereeereresrenassseseussseeaeseestennesarenerassecesnressasanenss 32
F. Data minimisation and data protection by design and by default... eeesseeseseereeeeeeneneees 33
A) CCTV Cameras .........cccssccssssscessecccsssncecssccetsnesseeesscnseterscesesseessesesscssssssesnesecasaesesensennrerennneesenaaaaes 33
G. ACCOLIPTADIII TY .... -cnroncccnns nee ranernerren tare rnenacecneryrecqres et abe b td bassaia snc aati Keesaoke sania woe namaoninmnninen nekind dHhd | EAA 6 37
@) CCTV CAMOra 20.0... ccccccccessesecensecesscaeeesseceensoneesesetsesdsesesensseeasosscesonssesssersecessueeenssanraseseaegeersaeaneeea 37
b) ANPR Cameras.........cccsccssssessscstsssssescesscceneessnecesestessessnereetoeseesssssssssssusseneecsnseessnensauerpacasatansensuss 38
H. Data REtONtion.........ccssssssccrsssssssssssessonneecssusesseossseceenscssscnvenscuecucerssenseeeeesesegeaaonanenorneacsnrsnsssececvedes 40
8. Decision On Corrective POWELS........sssscscecssssccccresssersscensotcocereesesnersssersessseeeeaeesenensanspaneannenssensaeenarens 42
9. Consideration of imposing an Administrative Fine ............cceecesrerscressrsensrecssscesesnsaeeatensensorseaserenarers 49
10. Right Of Appeal ...........:ccccssssscsssersteseecsescseresersssnscaasesrsucassueeconsvaranssessssessesaesssescaenanecaaeroesensenasavseusanens 50

1.1

1.2

1.3

1.4

2.1

This document is a decision (the ‘Decision’) of the Data Protection Commission (the
“DPC’) in accordance with Sections 111 and 124 of the Data Protection Act 2018 (the
‘2018 Act’). | make this Decision having considered the information obtained in the
separate own volition inquiry (the ‘inquiry’) conducted by Authorised Officers of the
DPC pursuant to Sections 110 and 123 of the 2018 Act (the ‘Inquiry Team’). The
Authorised Officers who conducted the inquiry provided Galway County Council (the
“Council’) with the Draft Inquiry Report and the Final Inquiry Report.

The Council was provided with a draft decision on this inquiry (the ‘draft decision’)
on 10 May 2023 to afford the Council a final opportunity to make any further
submissions, which it deemed necessary. | received submissions from the Council
relating to the Draft Decision on 1 June 2023. | have given consideration to these
submissions in advance of arriving at the final Decision. This Decision is being
provided to the Council pursuant to Sections 116(1)(a) and 126(a) of the 2018 Act in
order to give the Council notice of the Decision, the reasons for it, and the corrective
powers that | have decided to exercise.

It is important to point out that the views of the Inquiry Team as expressed in the
Draft Inquiry Report and Final Inquiry Report and the views set out in this Decision
are based on the situations that pertained during the inspection phase of the inquiry
itself (i.e. on 19 November 2018, 5 December 2018 and 19 February 2019 when the
physical inspections were conducted). For the avoidance of any doubt, this Decision
covers the period of the inquiry up to the conclusion of the inspection phase.

The Decision contains exercises by the DPC of corrective powers under Sections 115
and 127 of the 2018 Act and Article 58(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
(the ‘“GDPR’) arising from the infringements which have been identified herein. The
Council will be required to comply with any corrective powers that are exercised in
the final Decision and it will be open to this office to serve an enforcement notice on
the Council in accordance with Section 133 of the 2018 Act.

Authorised Officers from the Special Investigation Unit of the DPC were authorised
to conduct a connected series of own-volition inquiries under Sections 110 and 123
of the 2018 Act into a broad range of issues pertaining to surveillance technologies
deployed by state authorities, in particular, the various local authorities and An
Garda Siochana for law enforcement purposes. In initiating the inquiries, the DPC
wished:

(i) To establish whether any data processing that takes place in this context is
in compliance with the relevant data protection laws; and

2.2

2.3

2.4

2.5

(ii} To ensure that full accountability measures for the collection and
processing of personal data are in place in advance of further investment
and deployment of newer surveillance technologies.

The inquiry leading to this Decision was conducted initially by means of an audit
under Section 136 of the 2018 Act. This facilitated the Authorised Officers in
compiling facts in relation to the deployment of surveillance technologies by the
Council. On 15 June 2018, the DPC formally notified the Data Protection Officer of
the Council in writing that the DPC intended to conduct an audit of the Council
pursuant to Section 136 of the 2018 Act. The notice advised the Data Protection
Officer that the audit would commence on 25 June 2018 and that the opening phase
of the audit would involve the DPC providing a questionnaire to be completed over
the following twenty-one days. The notice also advised that once the response to the
questionnaire was considered, the Data Protection Officer would be informed about
the next phase of the data protection audit which may include, for example, the
issuing of a further questionnaire, or on-site inspections by Authorised Officers of the
Commission, or meetings (if deemed necessary) with the local authority, or the use
of any of the Commission’s other statutory powers that may be deemed necessary
at the time to advance the inquiry.

The notice advised that the audit would inquire into the processing of personal data,
by or on behalf of the Council, through the use of CCTV systems, automated number
plate recognition (‘ANPR’) technology, body worn cameras and any other
technologies that may be used to monitor individuals for law enforcement purposes
and/or for the purpose of preventing or detecting crime. The DPC informed the
Council that the processing of personal data by means of CCTV security cameras
situated on or in local authority offices or other local authority buildings for the
purpose of safeguarding persons or property on the premises or in its environs was
excluded from the scope of the inquiry. The Council was informed that the
information obtained in the inquiry would be relied upon by the DPC in making a
decision as to whether the 2018 Act and/or the GDPR has been infringed and if so,
whether corrective powers should be exercised.

On 25 June 2018, the DPC formally notified the Data Protection Officer in writing that
the audit of the Council had commenced and enclosed Questionnaire No. 1. A period
of twenty-one days was given to the Council to answer Questionnaire No. 1. The DPC
received the completed Questionnaire No. 1 with a number of attachments from the
Council on 16 July 2018.

On 2 November 2018, the DPC notified the Data Protection Officer in writing about
the next phase of the inquiry which would involve inspections by the Authorised
Officers. The notice referred to the Authorised Officers’ powers of search and
inspection pursuant to Section 130 of the 2018 Act. It explained that the Authorised
Officers would first need to meet with the Data Protection Officer to discuss the
Council’s replies to the questions in Questionnaire No. 1 and the accompanying
attachments submitted to ensure that they have a full and complete understanding

4

2.6

of the situation. In terms of inspection work, the DPC stated that as a starting point
the Authorised Officers would need to inspect whatever CCTV monitoring centre is
in operation and they would need to inspect at least some of the CCTV camera sites.

Further to this notification to the Data Protection Officer, inspections were carried
out by Authorised Officers as follows:

On 19 November 2018

This day-long inspection comprised a series of meetings, four in total, with the
Data Protection Officer and other officials which took place at Aras an Chontae,
Cnoc na Radharc, Gaillimh, followed by a physical inspection of the CCTV
Viewing Room at Aras an Chontae.
In attendance from Galway County Council for the first session were

(Data Protection Officer) and —" "| (Vacant Homes iy
. Director, paid a short courtesy visit at the start of the session.
In attendance for the second session from Galway County Council were [i

(Data Protection Officer), (er =| (Vacant Homes Officer) and
(Environmental Unit).

In attendance for the third session from Galway County Council were

7 (Data Protection Officer), ha | (Vacant Homes Officer) and

(Health and Safety Officer).
In attendance for the fourth session from Galway County Council were
),

(Data Protection Officer}, (Vacant Homes Officer
(Tenancy Enforcement Officer), (Buildings Inspector) and
The final session comprised an inspection by the Authorised Officers of the

CCTV Viewing Room in Aras an Chontae. In attendance for this session from
Galway County Council were [nn (Tenancy Enforcement Officer) and

| (Buildings Inspector).

Two Authorised Officers of the Data Protection Commission iit and

=r were in attendance throughout all sessions.

On 5 December 2018

The first session of the day comprised a meeting at Aras an Chontae with the
Data Protection Officer and staff from the Council offices in Ballinasloe. In

attendance were (Data Protection Officer), (Vacant
Homes Officer), (Coc), (Community Warden}
and PR (Assistant Staff Officer).

The second session of the day comprised a meeting with the Data Protection
Officer and staff from the Council offices in Tuam. In attendance fs

Oe Protection Officer), eh | (Vacant Homes Officer},
a


Zul

2.8

e The third session of the day comprised a further inspection by the Authorised
Officers of the Viewing Room in Aras an Chontae. In attendance for this
session from Galway County Council were | (Data Protection
Officer) ond as (Tenancy Enforcement Officer).

e The fourth séssion of the day comprised an inspection by Authorised Officers
of CCTV cameras at Ballinasloe and the CCTV monitor and recording
equipment in the Council offices in Ballinasloe. In attendance from Galway

County Counf@il was pia (Community Warden).

e Two Authorised Officers of the Data Protection Commission, hom. Le

and = as were in attendance throughout all sessions.

On 19 February 2019

e The first session of the day comprised an inspection of CCTV cameras e
recording equipment at Ros a Mhil Community Centre, Connemara.

attendance were (Environment Department), oe ee
(Environment Department) and (Community Warden).

e The second session of the day comprised an inspection of CCTV cameras and
recording equipment at An Poitin Stil public house at Inverin, Connemara. In
attendance were J (Environment Department) and |
a (Environment Department).

e The third session of the day comprised an inspection of CCTV cameras at

Cregmore GAA Club. In attendance were iL. (Environment

Department) and a (Environment Department).

e Two Authorised Officers of the Data Protection Commission, Tr |
and tet were in attendance throughout all sessions.

| have relied upon some of the information gathered from these inspections in the
context of this Decision.

In addition to the completed Questionnaire No.1 which was received on 16 July 2018
the Council submitted a revised version of the completed Questionnaire No.1 on 15
November 2018. The Council also submitted a number of other documents to the
DPC during the course of the inquiry.

The DPC received a CCTV Inventory on 4 December 2018. In summary, the inventory
shows that as of the date of the inquiry, the Council deploys 56 CCTV cameras as
follows:

e 47 cameras are active in various housing estates under the control of Galway
County Council.

e ANPR cameras operate in 2 housing estates in Tuam, namely Parkmore and
Tirboy.

e The Environment Department operate overt cameras at 9 bottle bank recycling
centres. This Department (which was also referred to by the Council as the
Environment Section and the Environment Unit but which, for consistency, is

referred to throughout this Decision as the Environment Department) also
avails of covert technology as a means of surveillance.

® Body worn cameras are used by the Housing Department for the health and
safety of staff.

2.9 Ultimately the Authorised Officers completed a final Inquiry Report which they
submitted to me as Decision Maker on 4 February 2020. | am obliged to consider that
Inquiry Report and reach final conclusions as to whether | identify infringements of
data protection legislation. As set out above, this document is my Decision on this
matter and includes the corrective powers that | propose to exercise arising from the
infringements that are identified herein.

2.10 The findings made in this Decision include, amongst other things, findings concerning
CCTV systems used by the Council which were authorised by the Garda
Commissioner under Section 38 of the Garda Siochana Act 20051. This Decision does
not consider the criteria used to assess and approve this CCTV system, nor does it
consider whether the approval process was correctly undertaken.

2.11 | am satisfied that the audit and inquiry were correctly conducted and that fair
procedures were followed throughout including, but not limited to, notifications to
the controller and an opportunity for the controller to comment on a draft inquiry
report before it was submitted to me as Decision-Maker.

3.1 This Decision considers the processing of personal data through a range of
technologies, including CCTV systems, ANPR and body worn cameras. The contexts
of the processing operations are diverse and include traffic management, public
safety, crime prevention and investigation and preventing anti-social behaviour.

3.2 Asa result of the different purposes for processing, two overarching legal regimes
must be applied in this Decision: the GDPR and the Law Enforcement Directive (the
‘LED’). Furthermore, in determining the lawful basis for the various processing
operations, this Decision must consider a broad range of legislation. The following
legislation is considered in this regard:

(i) Garda Siochana Act 2005 (as amended);
(ii) Litter Pollution Act 1997 (as amended);
(iii) Local Government Act 2001 (as amended);
(iv) Housing Acts 1966 to 2021;

(v) Waste Management Act 1996 (as amended); and

' CCTV cameras located at a number of housing estates including in Tuam (Parkmore, Tirboy, Bridge Court,
Ahascragh and Crowe Street, Gort} and Ballinasloe.

3.3

(vi) Safety Health and Welfare at Work Act 2005 (as amended).

The data protection matters considered in this Decision are also diverse. However,
they can be divided into three thematic issues:

(i) The lawful bases for the processing;
(ii) Transparency (including privacy policies and CCTV policies);

(iii) Accountability and technical and organisational measures (including in
relation to data minimisation); and

(iv) Retention.

3.4 As outlined below, this Decision finds that there is no lawful basis for some of the

Council’s processing of personal data as identified in the inquiry. Notwithstanding
the unlawfulness of such processing, for completeness, this Decision proceeds to
consider the issues identified by the inquiry regarding transparency and
accountability and technical and organisational measures, even in respect of
processing that has been found to be unlawful.

4. Legal regime pertaining to the inquiry and the Decision

4.1

4.2

4.3

Some of the processing of personal data by the Council detailed in this Decision falls
to be regulated under the GDPR and some falls under the LED.

The GDPR is the legal regime covering the processing of personal data in the
European Union. As a regulation, the GDPR is directly applicable in EU member
states. The GDPR was supplemented in Irish law by the 2018 Act. However, Article
2({2)(d) of the GDPR provides that:

This Regulation does not apply to the processing of personal data ... by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation,
detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal
penalties, including the safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to
public security.

The LED is a /ex specialis that provides specific rules with regard to the processing of
personal data for such purposes. The LED is transposed into Irish Law by Part 5 of the
2018 Act, which, as set out in Section 70 therein provides:

This Part applies, subject to subsection (2), to the processing of personal data
by or on behalf of a controller where the processing is carried out—

(a) for the purposes of—

(i) the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences,
including the safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to public
security, or

(ii) the execution of criminal penalties,
and

(b) by means that—

(i) are wholly or partly automated, or

(ii) where the personal data form part of, or are intended to form part of, a
relevant filing system, are not automated,

4.4 Therefore, the LED will apply to processing of personal data if the following two steps
are fulfilled:

(i) The processing is carried out by or on behalf of a ‘controller’, as defined in
Section 69 of the 2018 Act.

(ii) The processing is carried out for the purposes of the prevention,
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including the
safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to public security, or
the execution of criminal penalties.

(i) Controller

4.5 Regarding the first limb of this test, there are two distinct routes to fulfilling the
definition of ‘controller’ in this context, defined in Section 69 as:

(a) a competent authority that, whether alone or jointly with others,
determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data, or

(b) where the purposes and means of the processing of personal data are
determined by the law of the European Union or otherwise by the law of
the State, a controller nominated—

(i) by that law, or
(ii) in accordance with criteria specified in that law;

4.6 Part (a) of the definition of controller applies only to competent authorities.
‘Competent authority’, for the purposes of Part 5, is defined in Section 69(1) as
including:

(a) a public authority competent for the prevention, investigation, detection or
prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties in the
State, including the safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to
public security, or...

4.7. This definition of ‘competent authority’ is broad. The use of the word ‘or’ is
disjunctive, meaning that competence for any one or more of preventing,
investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences is sufficient to bring public
authorities within the definition of ‘Competent authority’. It is well-established in
Statutory interpretation “that generally it is assumed that ‘or is intended to be used

9

4.8

disjunctively and the word ‘and’ conjunctively”’. There is no basis for departing from
the ordinary meaning of the word ‘or’ and it cannot have been the intention of the
Oireachtas to bring about a conjunctive interpretation. The definition of “competent
authority’ is not context specific. However, in order to constitute a ‘controller’ under
part (a) of the definition, a competent authority must also determine the purposes
and means of the processing, alone or jointly.

Part (b) of the definition of ‘controller’ details how, in alternative to the part (a)
route, controllers can be nominated by, or in accordance with criteria specified in EU
or national law. There is no requirement under part (b) that the entity or individual
is a competent authority. However, the means and purposes of the processing must
be determined by EU or national law.

(ii) Puroose of the Processing

4.9

4.10

4.11

The second limb of the test requires that the processing is carried out for the
purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal
offences, including the safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to public
security, or the execution of criminal penalties.

To satisfy this limb of the test, the primary purposes of the processing must reflect
those law enforcement purposes. One must look to the specific reasons for the
processing. It is not sufficient that the data being processed could in theory also be
used for law enforcement purposes on a secondary basis. The specific reasons for
the processing must reflect those law enforcement purposes.

In Puskar v Finance Directorate of the Slovak Republic? the Court of Justice of the
European Union (the ‘C/EU’) considered the scope of the Data Protection Directive’,
specifically the Directive’s non-application to processing operations concerning the
activities of the State in areas of criminal law.® This case considered the inclusion of
an individual’s name on a list of persons that the Finance Directorate considered
‘front-men’ in company director roles. The data at issue were processed for the
purpose of collecting tax and combating tax fraud. However, that data could be used
in criminal proceedings if infringements were identified. The Court considered the
purposes of the processing and held that the data were not collected:

for the specific purpose of the pursuit of such criminal proceedings or in the
context of State activities relating to areas of criminal law.®

2 Per Lord Salmon, Federal Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. v Department of Trade and Industry [1974] 1 WLR, at

page 524.

3 Case C-73/16, Peter Puskar v Finance Directorate of the Slovak Republic, judgment of 27 Septem ber 2017
(ECLI:EU:C:2017:725).

4 Directive 95/45/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data.

5 That exclusion is provided for in Article 3(2) of the Directive.

6 Case C-73/16, Peter Puskar v Finance Directorate of the Slovak Republic, judgment of 27 September 2017
(ECLI:EU:C:2017:725), at paragraph 40.

10

On that basis, the criminal law exclusion was not applicable, and the Data Protection
Directive was held to apply to that processing.

4.12 In this case, the CJEU adopted a strict interpretation of the scope of the criminal law
exclusion in the Data Protection Directive. For that exclusion to apply, it is not
sufficient that the data could potentially be used in criminal proceedings. Rather, the
data must have been collected for the specific purpose of the pursuit of criminal
proceedings. A similarly strict interpretation of the application of the LED and Section
70 of the 2018 Act is warranted. Thus, processing is carried out for the purposes of
the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences only if
the controller’s reasons for the processing specifically reflects one or more of those
purposes. It is not sufficient that the data could potentially also be used for law
enforcement purposes if those purposes did not form part of the controller’s specific
reasons for processing. :

Processing that falls under the GDPR

4.13 The GDPR is applicable to the Council’s processing of personal data in relation to
ANPR cameras where they are used for traffic management purposes and body worn
cameras where they are used for health and safety purposes.

4.14 Here, the Council is not processing personal data for the purposes of the prevention,
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences. Although the data
processed through the use of ANPR cameras and through body worn cameras has
the potential for subsequent use by An Garda Siochana for the purposes of
facilitating the deterrence, prevention, detection and prosecution of offences, this
does not form part of the Council’s purposes for these processing activities.
Therefore, this processing is not for the specific purposes of preventing,
investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or executing criminal
penalties. The second limb of the test for the LED to apply is not satisfied and the
GDPR is applicable.

Processing that falls under the LED

4.15 | find the LED is applicable to the remainder of the Council’s processing operations
that fall for consideration in this Decision. These processing operations include:

i. The use by the Housing Department of CCTV cameras at numerous housing
estates in Tuam and Ballinasloe for the purposes of preventing and
detecting anti-social behaviour;

ii. The use by the Housing Department of ANPR cameras for the purposes of
preventing and detecting anti-social behaviour: and

iii. The use by the Environment Department of CCTV cameras to prevent and
detect illegal dumping in exercising the Council’s criminal enforcement
functions under the Litter Pollution Act 1997.

CCTV relating to Housina Estates and Bottle Banks

11

4.16 The purposes of the processing of personal data captured through CCTV cameras
used by the Housing Department and the Environment Department of the Council
bring that processing under the LED. Personal data collected via those CCTV cameras
is used by the Council for the purposes of preventing anti-social behaviour pursuant
to legislation applicable to the management of housing estates and for the purposes
of preventing, detecting and prosecuting illegal dumping pursuant to legislation
applicable to littering and dumping. Thus, each piece of technology is used with the
specific purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting and/or prosecuting criminal
offences.

4.17 The CCTV systems operated by the Council at bottle bank facilities, which have not
been authorised under the Garda Siochdna Act 2005, also fall under the LED. The
Council is a controller of this personal data within part (a) of that definition in Section
69 of the 2018 Act. As we have seen, the Council is a competent authority. It
determines the purposes and means of the processing. It decided to install those
CCTV systems for purposes of the prevention and detection of illegal dumping. Thus,
the Council determines the purposes for operating the CCTV systems at those
locations. It also determines the means of the processing by determining how the
data are processed. It controls who has access to the footage, when the footage is
deleted, and which images to capture. Thus, the Council is a controller within the
meaning of Section 69 of the 2018 Act.

4.18 Regarding the Council’s use of CCTV systems, the Council is a ‘controller’ within part
(a) of that definition under Section 69 (above). The Council is a competent authority
because it enjoys competence for the prevention of certain anti-social behaviour
under the Housing Acts 1966 to 2021. Furthermore, it is subject to a general duty to
have regard to the importance of taking steps for the prevention of crime, when
performing its functions, under Section 37(1) of the Garda Siochana Act 2005.

CCTV authorised under Section 38 of the Garda Siochana Act 2005

4.19 The CCTV systems operated by the Council pursuant to Section 38 of the Garda
Siochana Act 2005 also fall under the LED. The Council is a ‘Controller’ within part (b)
of that definition. The purposes and means of the processing are determined by
Section 38 of the Garda Siochdna Act 2005 and the delegated legislation made
pursuant to it. Section 38(1) sets out the sole or primary purpose of the CCTV as
“securing public order and safety in public places by facilitating the deterrence,
prevention, detection and prosecution of offences”. The means of the processing of
the personal data are set out in Section 38 and the delegated legislation made

12

4.20

4.21

4.22

=k

6.1

6.2

pursuant to it, including who has access to the CCTV’ and the systems that can be
used.®

The Council is nominated as controller of this processing by Article 4(d) of the Garda
Siochana (CCTV) Order 2006°, which requires local authorisation for the operation
and installation of the CCTV. The Council has done so in respect of the authorisations.
Thus, it is a controller pursuant to part (b) of the definition of controller.

The sole or primary purpose of the Council’s operation of this CCTV is statutorily
determined in Section 38(1) of the Garda Siochana Act 2005 as “securing public order
and safety in public places by facilitating the deterrence, prevention, detection and
prosecution of offences”. The second step in the test for applying the LED requires
the processing to be for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or
prosecution of criminal offences. This is not a cumulative test, and any one of these
purposes is sufficient to bring the processing under the Part 5. Therefore, even
though the Council does not use this CCTV to investigate or prosecute criminal
offences, it is clear that it records CCTV at these locations for the purpose of securing
public order and safety by facilitating the prevention of criminal offences. This
purpose alone is sufficient to bring the processing under Part 5 of the 2018 Act.

Where data are processed for one purpose and then used for another, if the purpose
changes with that new use, the GDPR may become applicable. There is no evidence
in the inquiry that suggests that the Council processed the CCTV data for any purpose
that would exclude the application of Part 5 of the 2018 Act.

This Decision and the corrective measures that are identified herein are addressed
to the Council as a controller in relation to the findings made.

‘Personal data’ is defined under the GDPR as “any information relating to an
identified or identifiable natural person”.*° Section 69 of the 2018 Act implements a
similar definition of ‘Personal data’ under the LED.

This Decision concerns CCTV systems, ANPR cameras and body worn cameras. These
devices capture visual images of individuals. It is possible to identify individuals from
such images. Thus, the data processed by the devices includes “personal data”.

? Section 38(7) of the Garda Siochana Act 2005 requires the Council to ensure that members of An Garda
Siochana have access to the CCTV at all times for, inter alia, the purpose of retrieving information or data
recorded by the CCTV.

8 CCTV is defined in Section 38(14) defines CCTV as “any fixed and permanent system employing optical
devices for recording visual images of events occurring in public places”. Section 38(1) authorises such

systems.

9§.1. No. 289/2006 — Garda Siochana (CCTV) Order, 2006.
10 Article 4 GDPR.

13

7A

7.2

ah

CA if meee Mage Te

The Authorised Officers identified a total of 16 issues in the course of the inquiry. |
have considered each in turn and | have also considered the commonality of issues
identified. Given that the Council is a controller in each and all of the issues identified,
| will group my analysis and findings based on the commonality of issues arising.

Since the inquiry commenced, the Council has taken steps to address some of the
issues identified in the inquiry. This Decision sets out findings as to whether
infringements of the GDPR and/or the 2018 Act have occurred, by reference to the
dates of the inspections conducted by the Authorised Officers (even if those
infringements have since been addressed), or are occurring. Therefore, it is
acknowledged that some of the issues leading to the findings in this Decision may
since have been addressed by the Council.

ee oR tore As ‘ uf Lats ies =F “4 ie! hem Pe ee ene oe. v4 f cad nf k .
| bases for the survetignce techmoogees ermployed Sor the purposes of
NINE, investigatimg. detecting or prosecuitng crime

Cameras

i) Environment Department: Legal Basis for CCTV Cameras at bottle banks to detect
illegal dumping

Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 7, 8

7.3

7.4

7.5

CCTV cameras are operated by the Environment Department of the Council at five
bottle bank facilities as well as at locations such as bogs and remote rural areas for
the purposes of facilitating enforcement of the Litter Pollution Act 1997. As the
Council is the investigation and prosecution authority in respect of offences under
the Litter Pollution Act 1997, this activity falls under the LED. Furthermore, for law
enforcement purposes, the Environment Department occasionally engages the
services of CU Security to conduct covert surveillance. | must assess whether the
Council has a legal basis to process personal data collected via these cameras in these
circumstances.

The Council has powers and duties for the prevention, investigation, detection and
prosecution of litter related offences under the Litter Pollution Act 1997 and the
Waste Management Act 1996 (as amendeg). It relies on these functions as a lawful
basis for these CCTV systems on the basis that the CCTV systems are necessary for
the performance of those functions.

Section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act requires that ‘data shal! be processed lawfully and
fairly’. Section 71(2) expands on the requirement that personal data be processed
lawfully, providing that:

(2) The processing of personal data shall be lawful where, and to the extent
that—

14

(a) the processing is necessary for the performance of a function of a
controller for a purpose specified in section 70 {1)(a) and the function has a
legal basis in the law of the European Union or the law of the State,

Or

(b) the data subject has, subject to subsection (3), given his or her consent
to the processing.

7.6 Section 71 of the 2018 Act must be interpreted alongside Article 8 of the LED. In
National Asset Management Agency v Commissioner for Environmental
Information, the Supreme Court interpreted the Irish legislation?? that
implemented Directive 2003/4/EC.*° The definition of ‘public authority’ in the trish
legislation contained additional paragraphs to that in the Directive. The Court held,
in relation to interpreting legislation introduced implementing an international
treaty:

this specific obligation undertaken by Ireland as a member of the EU requires
that the courts approach the interpretation of legislation in implementing a
directive, so far as possible, teleologically, in order to achieve the purpose of
the directive.“

7.7. The Court went on to hold that:

If even as a matter of purely domestic interpretation, the provisions of those
subparagraphs might appear to either fall short of what is required by the
Directive, or go further, an Irish court might be required to adopt another
interpretation which is consistent with the provisions of the Directive, if that is
possible.*°

7.8 In Minister for Justice and Equality, Commissioner of An Garda Siochana v Workplace
Relations Commission*®, the Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed that
‘the principle of primacy of EU law requires not only the courts but all bodies of the
Member States to give full effect to EU rules’*’. This case concerned the duty to
disapply national legislation that is contrary to EU law. The duty to interpret national
legislation teleologically to achieve the purpose a Directive is equally applicable to all
Member State bodies.

7.9 Section 71 of the 2018 Act must be interpreted so far as possible, teleologically, in
order to achieve the purpose of the LED. It is a clear purpose of the LED that

“1 National Asset Management Agency -v- Commissioner for Environmental Information [2015] IESC 51.

12 Statutory Instrument No. 133 of 2007.

13 Directive 2003/4/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on public access to
environmental information and repealing Counci! Directive 90/313/EEC.

14 |bid At paragraph 10.

15 |bid at paragraph 11.

‘6 Case C-378/17, Minister for Justice and Equality, Commissioner of An Garda Sfochana v Workplace Relations
Commission, judgment of 4 December 2018 (ECLI:EU:C:2018:979).

17 At paragraph 39.

15

processing that falls within its scope must be based on Union or Member State law.
Article 8 of the Law Enforcement Directive provides for the lawfulness of processing:

1. Member States shall provide for processing to be lawful only if and to the
extent that processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out by
a competent authority for the purposes set out in Article 1(1) and that it is based
on Union or Member State law.

2. Member State law regulating processing within the scope of this Directive
shall specify at least the objectives of processing, the personal data to be
processed and the purposes of the processing.

7.10 Thus, Article 8(1) sets out two criteria that must be fulfilled for processing to be
lawful. First, the processing must be necessary for the performance of a task of a
competent authority. Second, the processing must be based on Union or Member
State law. Where Member State law forms the basis for processing, Article 8(2)
elaborates on what must be specified in that law. It must specify the objectives of
processing, the personal data to be processed and the purposes of the processing.

7.11 The requirement in Section 71 that data be processed lawfully must be interpreted
as requiring that the processing be based on Union or Member State law. It goes
beyond requiring that the controller’s function alone is based on law. Member State
law must specify the objectives of processing, the personal data to be processed and
the purposes of the processing as per Article 8(2) of the LED.

7.12 The matters that Member State law must specify do not necessarily have to be
codified in an Act of the Oireachtas, but they must have a clear legal basis, for
example in the common law or statutory instrument. The Member State law must be
clear, precise and its application must be foreseeable. Recital 33 of the LED
elaborates on the form that such Member State law must take and what must be
specified therein:

Where this Directive refers to Member State law, a legal basis or a legislative
measure, this does not necessarily require a legislative act adopted by a
parliament, without prejudice to requirements pursuant to the constitutional
order of the Member State concerned. However, such a Member State law,
legal basis or legislative measure should be clear and precise and its
application foreseeable for those subject to it, as required by the case-law of
the Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. Member State
law regulating the processing of personal data within the scope of this
Directive should specify at least the objectives, the personal data to be
processed, the purposes of the processing and procedures for preserving the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data and procedures for its
destruction, thus providing sufficient guarantees against the risk of abuse and
arbitrariness.

16

7.13 This means that the measures must regulate the processing by providing guidance to
controllers and data subjects as to when particular processing is permissible. This is
consistent with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. For
instance, in Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner’® the court held (at paragraph
91):

As regards the level of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms that is
guaranteed within the European Union, EU legislation involving interference
with the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter must,
according to the Court’s settled case-law, lay down clear and precise rules
governing the scope and application of a measure and imposing minimum
safeguards, so that the persons whose personal data is concerned have
sufficient guarantees enabling their data to be effectively protected against the
risk of abuse and against any unlawful access and use of that data.

7.14 An Act of the Oireachtas, for example, might implicitly provide for the processing of
certain personal data, without expressly listing each category of personal data that
is to be processed. Such an Act would be sufficient to provide a lawful basis once the
objectives, the personal data to be processed and the purposes are clear and
foreseeable from that Act.

7.15 The Council’s use of CCTV footage cannot lawfully be based on the Litter Pollution
Act 1997 or the Waste Management Act 1996. ! have carefully considered the full
range of legislation and the Council’s use of CCTV to detect and take enforcement
action against those engaged in littering.

7.16 These Acts do not regulate this type of processing as is required by Article 8(2) of the
LED. Although the Acts provide the Council with certain functions, including for the
prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of litter offences, and that this
implicitly provides for the processing of certain categories of personal data, the Acts
do not provide for processing of images of members of the public using CCTV footage
in this manner. There are no provisions in any of these Acts that can be said to govern
such a wide scope of processing. Even if the Acts did specify for this personal data to
be processed, in the absence of significant other amendments, the Acts would be
severely lacking in rules that govern the scope and application of such CCTV,
including, among others, the criteria that must be fulfilled before installing such
CCTV, the supervision of such CCTV once installed, and the termination of the CCTV.
Furthermore, the Acts do not specify any procedures for preserving the integrity and
confidentiality of personal data processed by such CCTV.

7.17 Therefore, | find that the processing of this personal data is not lawful and infringes
Section 71(1){a) of the 2018 Act.

18 Case C-362/14, Maximillian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner, judgment of 6 October
2015 (ECLI:EU:C:2015:650).

17

7.18 Although certain sections of the Circular Economy and Miscellaneous Provisions Act
2022 may be relevant to the issue of whether the Council can process personal data
with CCTV cameras for the purposes of countering littering, | note that in the most
recent update available on Irish Statute Book at the time of issuing this Decision,7® it
stated that sections 5 — 25 and 27 — 40 of the Act have not yet been commenced. |
accordingly cannot take these provisions into account in assessing whether the
Council has a valid legal basis for processing. In any event, it is important to
emphasise that the controller has an obligation to demonstrate that it processes
personal data lawfully by pinpointing the legal basis it relies upon for processing.

7.19 | welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision that
all CCTV cameras at the relevant bottle bank facilities have been switched off.
However as the CCTV cameras were in operation at the time the inquiry was
conducted | find the Council has infringed Sections 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.20 I find that the Council infringed Section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act by unlawfully
processing data from CCTV cameras at the relevant bottle bank facilities.

i>

_
retard

Housing Department: Legal Basis for ANPR Cameras to detect anti-social behaviour
Regime: LED
Inquiry Report issue: 11

7.21 As part of a CCTV upgrade the Council installed ANPR cameras in two housing estates
in Tuam, namely Parkmore and Tirboy, as a wider estate enhancement scheme in
2017 to include a traffic management system and to detect possible anti-social
behaviour events.

7.22 ANPR cameras capture images of vehicle number plates and may also capture images
of individuals within the relevant vehicles, depending on how the cameras operate.
It is possible for an individual to be identified from ANPR footage, either because
they are directly identifiable where images of them are captured by the ANPR
cameras, or indirectly because a controller can link the vehicle number plate with an
identifiable individual, such as the registered owner of the vehicle. As a result, the
use of ANPR cameras involve the processing of personal data. | must assess whether
the Council has a legal basis to process personal data collected via these ANPR
cameras in these circumstances.

7.23 The lawful basis relied upon by the Council for the operation of these ANPR cameras
to detect possible anti-social behaviour events is Section 71(2)(a) of the 2018 Act. In
order to lawfully process personal data for law enforcement functions, a controller
must satisfy the requirements of Section 71(2) of the 2018 Act, which provides that

19 See < https://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/isbc/2022_26.html>.

18

in the absence of the consent of the data subject the processing must be necessary
for the performance of a function of a controller for the purposes of the prevention,
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including the
safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to public security, which has a
legal basis in the law of the EU or Ireland.

7.24 A test of necessity, by reference to the performance of a function which has a legal
basis in the law of the EU of Ireland, should have been undertaken prior to the
installation of ANPR or other CCTV cameras by means of a data protection impact
assessment or by another equivalent exercise. The Inquiry Team found no evidence
of a proportionality test or data protection impact assessment or an equivalent
exercise having been carried out to test the necessity for the use by the Council of
ANPR cameras for any of its law enforcement functions. Without having conducted
such an assessment or exercise, either before or since the installation of the ANPR
cameras, there is no evidence that the data processing by means of ANPR or other
CCTV cameras cameras is necessary for the performance of a function for the
purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal
offences, which has a legal basis in the law of the EU or Ireland.

7.25 | welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising that ANPR cameras were removed from the Parkmore and Tirboy estates in
February 2022. However as the ANPR cameras were in operation at the time the
inquiry was conducted | find the Council has infringed Sections 71(2)(a) of the 2018
Act.

Findings

7.26 I find that the Council infringed Section 71(2)(a} of the 2018 Act by processing data
from ANPR cameras at the above-mentioned locations without a clear legal basis
to do so.

SS NAIR PO amernc
AACN Lat Ci as

i) Legal basis for ANPR Cameras for traffic management:
Regime: GDPR
Inquiry Report Issue: 11

7.27 As part of a CCTV upgrade the Council installed ANPR cameras in two housing estates
in Tuam, namely Parkmore and Tirboy, as a wider estate enhancement scheme in
2017 to include a traffic management system and to detect possible anti-social
behaviour events.

7.28 ANPR cameras capture images of vehicle number plates and may also capture images
of individuals within the relevant vehicles, depending on how the cameras operate.

19

It is possible for an individual to be identified from ANPR footage, either because
they are directly identifiable where images of them are captured by the ANPR
cameras, or indirectly because a controller can link the vehicle number plate with an
identifiable individual, such as the registered owner of the vehicle. As a result, the
use of ANPR cameras involve the processing of personal data. | must assess whether
the Council has a legal basis to process personal data collected via these ANPR
cameras in these circumstances.

7.29 Kopp v Switzerland is an authority for the proposition that legal bases for surveillance
technologies must be particularly precisely worded.”° The lawful basis relied on by
the Council for the operation of these cameras is Article 6(1)(e) of the GDPR.

7.30 In order for a valid legal basis to exist for such processing under Article 6(1)(e) it
would be necessary for the legislature to specifically grant power to the local
authority to carry out such processing in a manner which is clear, precise and
foreseeable for data subjects subject to the processing. This can be garnered from
interpreting Article 6(1)(e) in light of Article 6(3) and Recital 41 GDPR. These latter
provisions envisage that any legal basis relied on for processing carried out pursuant
to Article 6(1)(e) should be clear precise and foreseeable.

7.31 For example, it is important that the legal basis includes matters such as stating the
type of data that will be processed, the conditions governing the processing, the
means of processing the data and the purpose of the processing, as these will be of
assistance in ensuring that the basis meets the requirements of clarity, precision and
foreseeability. The case law on the standards of clarity, precision and foreseeability
can be summarised as requiring that the Member State law must afford adequate
legal protection against arbitrariness and bring clarity to the scope of any discretion
conferred on public authorities by that law. This assessment will necessarily depend
on the type of processing in question and the legal bases being relied upon. However,
the deployment of wide-spread ANPR devices has significant potential to impact on
the rights and freedoms of data subjects, while also naturally having the potential to
bring significant benefits in the context of traffic management. In those
circumstances, any lawful basis providing for the deployment of such technology
must be sufficiently clear, precise and foreseeable as to limit the scope for
arbitrariness in the deployment of the ANPR cameras and to provide adequate
protection to data subjects. This is also necessary to restrict the scope of the
discretion of the Council to install ANPR cameras and to reduce the likelihood of
arbitrary interferences with personal data subjects’ right to protection of their
personal data.

7.32 | accept that the Council has a function in relation to the management of traffic in
the county of Galway. However, | must assess whether the Council has a legal basis

20 25 March 1998, § 55, Reports of Judgments and Decisions 1998-Il paragraph 72. See also Zakharov v Russia
47143/06 paragraph 229; Centrum for Rattvisa v Sweden (2019) 68 E.H.R.R. 2 paragraph 101, and Big Brother
Watch v United Kingdom 58170/13 62322/14 24960/15 (Grand Chamber) paragraph 333.

20

7.33

7.34

7.35

7.36

to process personal data collected via ANPR cameras in carrying out its traffic
management function which addresses the requirements set out above. In order to
lawfully process personal data using ANPR cameras, a controller must satisfy at least
one of the conditions in Article 6 of the GDPR. If the controller cannot do so, then its
processing of personal data will be contrary to the requirement under Article 5(1)(a)
of the GDPR to ensure that personal data is processed lawfully.

The Council referred in its submissions to Sections 66 and 67 of the Local Government
Act 2001 as its legislative basis for using ANPR cameras for traffic management
purposes. While Section 66 empowers a local authority to “take such measures,
engage in such activities or do such things in accordance with law ... at is considers
necessary or desirable to promote the interests of the local community’, it is
noteworthy that any such action taken must be “in accordance with law”. It is also
noteworthy that Sections 66 and 67 of the Local Government Act 200i do not
specifically grant a local authority the power to carry out processing of personal data
via ANPR cameras (or any similar technology) in a manner which is clear, precise and
foreseeable. In these circumstances, | find that Sections 66 and 67 of the Local
Government Act 2001 do not provide the Council with a legislative basis to use ANPR
cameras for traffic management purposes in a manner that addresses the
requirements of Article 6(1)(e) of the GDPR, interpreted in light of Article 6(3) and
Recital 41 of the GDPR and applicable case law.

As the Council has failed to identify any legislation which expressly permits the
Council to conduct surveillance of data subjects with ANPR technology, | find that the
Council does not have a lawful basis to operate CCTV cameras with ANPR facilities
for traffic management purposes.

| welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising that ANPR cameras were removed from the Parkmore and Tirboy estates in
February 2022. However, as the ANPR cameras were in operation at the time the
inquiry was conducted | find the Council has infringed Article 5(1)(a) GDPR.

Findings

i find that the Council infringed Article 5(1)(a) GDPR by not having a lawfui basis to
process personal data with ANPR cameras for the purposes of traffic management.

fa) at

i) Body Worn Cameras: Legal Basis

Regime: GDPR

Inquiry Report Issue: 14

7.37

The Housing Department of the Council commenced use, on a pilot basis, of a body
worn camera for its Housing Tenancy Officer in May 2018. The Council stated that —
the purpose for the use of the body worn camera was for the health and safety of

21

7.38

7.39

7.40

the Housing Tenancy Officer who, in the past, has been subjected to threats of
violence while conducting official activities. The Council informed the Inquiry Team
that the lawful basis for the deployment of the body worn camera in this instance is
Article 6(1)(d) of the:GDPR (i.e. that the processing is necessary in order to protect
the vital interests of the data subject or of another person). In further submissions
to the Inquiry Team, the Council also relied upon Article 6(1)(e) of the GDPR as its
lawful basis in connection with its health and safety obligations as an employer under
the Safety, Health and Welfare at Work Act 2005 (as amended) and the Safety, Health
and Welfare at Work (General Application) Regulations 2007.

The Inquiry Team accepted that the Council has obligations under health and safety
legislation in relation to the protection of staff in the workplace. However, | must
assess whether the Council has a legal basis under Article 6(1)(d) or 6(1)(e) of the
GDPR to use body worn cameras in fulfilling its obligations under health and safety
legislation.

In order to lawfully process personal data using body worn cameras, a controller
must satisfy the requirements of Article 6 of the GDPR. In the absence of the consent
of the data subject, the obligation lies on the controller to show that the data
processing is necessary for the purposes concerned. Therefore, in the scenario where
the Council considers that the processing of personal data through the use of body
worn cameras is necessary either:

e inorder to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another person
(Article 6(1)(d)); or

e for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the
exercise of official authority vested in the controller (Article 6(1)(e)),

it must consider and document whether the use of body worn cameras is necessary
for staff health and safety purposes. A necessity test involves the examination of the
proposed measure(s), supported by evidence describing the problem to be
addressed by the measure(s), how the measure(s) will address the problem and why
existing or less intrusive measures cannot sufficiently address the issue. This test of
necessity should have been undertaken prior to the commencement of the use of
body worn cameras by means of a data protection impact assessment or by another
equivalent exercise. A test of necessity is also required for all existing processing
operations that are likely to be high risk processing. The Inquiry Team found no
evidence of any such necessity test having been carried out. As a result, there is no
evidence that the data processing by means of body worn cameras is necessary to
protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another person, or for the
performance of a of a task carried out in the public interest.

In addition, as set out in paragraphs 7.29 to 7.33, in order for a valid legal basis to

_ exist for an employer to process personal data via body worn cameras under Article

6(1)(e), it would be necessary for the legislature to specifically grant power to
employers to carry out such processing in a manner which is clear, precise and

22

7.41

7,42

pa

Si we ES gee m Bp
“a ex
= a ee ~ PR

foreseeable for data subjects subject to the processing. In its submissions, the
Council cited legislative obligations on employers set out in the Safety, Health and

Welfare at Work Act 2005 (as amended) and the Safety, Health and Welfare at Work

(General Application) Regulations 2007. While these impose obligations on
employers, they do not specifically grant an employer the power to carry out
processing of personal data via body worn cameras (or any similar technology) in a
manner which is clear, precise and foreseeable. In these circumstances, | find that
the provisions of the Safety, Health and Welfare at Work Act 2005 (as amended) and
the Safety, Health and Welfare at Work (General Application) Regulations 2007 cited
by the Council do not provide the Council with a legislative basis to use body worn
cameras for staff health and safety purposes in a manner that addresses the
requirements of Article 6(1)(e) of the GDPR, interpreted in light of Article 6(3) and
Recital 41 of the GDPR and applicable case law.

| welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising the DPC that Body worn cameras are not in use by the Council at present
nor is it intended that they will be used in future. However, as the body worn cameras
were in operation at the time the inquiry was conducted | find the Council has
infringed Article 5(1)(a}) GDPR.

Findings

I find that the Council infringed Article 5(1)(a) of the GDPR by not having a lawful
basis to process personal data via body worn cameras for staff health and safety
purposes.

ee eee Pre,

wet Waa
VY Ate ia 1

i) CCTV Scheme at Tuam

Regime: LED

Inquiry Issue: 4

7,43

7.44

In January 2017, the Garda Commissioner authorised the installation of twenty nine
cameras on nine poles at three locations in the Tuam area of Galway under Section
38(3)(c) of the Garda Sfochana Act 2005. During the course of the inquiry, the Inquiry
Team established that no signage in relation to this CCTV scheme was erected on the
approach roads to Tuam to alert data subjects that their personal data would be
processed by a CCTV system once they entered the area covered by the focus of the
cameras.

| must assess whether the Council complied with its transparency obligations in
connection with its collection and processing of personal data via these CCTV
cameras in these circumstances. In the Final Inquiry Report, this issue was considered

23

under the GDPR. Now it is considered under the LED. The differences between these
two regimes are set out above in this Decision.

7.45 The principle of fair processing of personal data is set out in Section 71(1)(a) of the
2018 Act and the requirements in relation the data subject’s right to certain
information is set out at Section 90(1) of the 2018 Act. Section 90(1) of the 2018 Act
provides that:

Subject to subsection (4) and section 94, a controller shall ensure that the data
subject is provided with, or, as appropriate, has made available to him or her, the
information specified in subsection (2) in relation to personal data relating to him
or her within a reasonable period after the date on which the controller obtains
the personal data concerned, having regard to the circumstances in which the
data are or are to be processed.

Section 90(2) of the 2018 Act provides that:

The information to which subsection (1) applies is:
(a) the identity and the contact details of the controller;

(b) the contact details of the data protection officer of the controller, where
applicable;

(c) the purpose for which the personal data are intended to be processed or are
being processed;

(d) information detailing the right of the data subject to request from the
controller access to, and the rectification or erasure of, the personal data;

(e) information detailing the right of the data subject to lodge a complaint with
the Commission and the contact details of the Commission,

(f) in individual cases where further information is necessary to enable the data
subject to exercise his or her rights under this Part, having regard to the
circumstances in which the personal data are or are to be processed, including
the manner in which the data are or have been collected, any such information
including:

fi) the legal basis for the processing of the data concerned, including the legal
basis for any transfers of data;

(ii) the period for which the data concerned will be retained, or where it is not

possible to determine the said period at the time of the giving of the information,
the criteria used to determine the said period;

24

7.46

7.47

7.48

(iii) where applicable, each category of recipients of the data.

The absence of appropriate signage providing information to data subjects on the
approach roads to Tuam concerning the existence of CCTV cameras, such as the
identity and contact details of the controller, the contact details of the data
protection officer of the controller (where applicable), and the purpose for which the
personal data were intended to be processed or were being processed, amounts, in
my view, to a breach of the Council’s obligations under Sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1)
of the 2018 Act.

| welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising the DPC of the Council’s intention to erect, subject to DPC approval,
appropriately worded and located signage on the approach roads to Tuam. However,
as the signage was not erected at the time of the inquiry, | find the Council infringed
Sections 71(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

I find the Council infringed Sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act by failing to
erect appropriately worded and located signage or by providing the necessary
information to data subjects in respect of the processing of personal data collected
via these CCTV cameras for purposes related to law enforcement.

ii) Environment Department: CCTV Schemes at Ros a Mhil Community Centre,
Connemara, An Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara and Cregmore GAA Club

Regime: LED

Inquiry Issue: 4

7.49

Ros a Mhil Community Centre, Connemara: It was noted by the Inquiry Team that a
small sized CCTV notice was attached to each of two of the bottle banks. While
‘Comhairle Chontae na Gaillimhe’ appears on the top of each notice and the notices
indicate that CCTV is in operation - with the image of a camera on each one - the
notices provide no information with regard to the purposes of the CCTV cameras or
the contact details for the controller or the data protection officer. Furthermore,
there is no CCTV signage on the approach to the bottle-banks, such as at either of
the two entrances to the site. As a result, members of the public who use the bottle
banks or approach the doorway to the Community Centre have their images
captured by one of the CCTV cameras before the CCTV notice is visible to them. In
the case of members of the public who use the doorway to the Community Centre
but do not use the nearby bottle bank facilities, they may be completely unaware
that their activities are captured by the Council’s CCTV cameras as the notices are
neither sufficiently prominent nor favourably located to be drawn to their attention

7.50 An Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara: |t was noted by the Inquiry Team that a small sized

CCTV notice is attached to each of two of the bottle banks. While ‘Comhairle Chontae

25

na Gaillimhe’ appears on the top of each notice and the notices indicate that CCTV is
in operation - with the image of a camera on each one - the notices provide no
information with regard to the purposes of the CCTV cameras or the contact details
for the controller or the data protection officer. Furthermore, there is no CCTV
signage on the approach to the bottle-banks, such as at either of the two entrances
to the site. As a result, members of the public who use the bottie banks have their
images captured by one of the CCTV cameras before the CCTV notice is visible to
them.

7.51 Cregmore GAA Club: A small sized CCTV notice is attached to each of two of the bottle
banks. While ‘Comhairle Chontae na Gaillimhe Galway County Council’ appears on
the top of each notice and the notices indicate that CCTV is in operation - with the
image of a camera on each one - the notices provide no information with regard to
the contact details for the controller or the data protection officer. Furthermore,
there is no CCTV signage on the approach to the bottle-banks, such as at the entrance
to the site. As a result, members of the public who use the bottle banks have their
images captured by one of the CCTV cameras before the CCTV notice is visible to
them.

7.52 | must assess whether the Council complied with its transparency obligations in
connection with its collection and processing of personal data via these CCTV
cameras in these circumstances.

7.53 The principle of fair processing of personal data is set out in Section 71(1)(a) of the
2018 Act and the requirements in relation the data subject’s right to certain
information are set out at Section 90(1) of the 2018 Act. The absence of appropriate
signage providing information to data subjects on the approach roads to Tuam
concerning the existence of CCTV cameras such as the identity and contact details of
the controller, the contact details of the data protection officer of the controller
(where applicable) and the purpose for which the personal data are intended to be
processed or are being processed, amounts, in my view, to a breach of the Council’s
obligations under Sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act.

7.54 | welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising that the CCTV at Ros a Mhil Community Centre, An Poitin Stil, Inverin, and
Cregmore GAA Club have subsequently been switched off and monitoring equipment
removed. However, as the required signage was not erected at the time of the
inquiry and the CCTV recording was being carried out, | find the Council infringed
Sections 71(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.55 I find the Council infringed Sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act by failing to
erect appropriately worded and located signage or by providing the necessary
information to data subjects in respect of the processing of personal data collected
via these CCTV cameras for purposes related to law enforcement.

26

i) Accessibility of Monitoring Screens at Ros a Mhil Community Centre, Connemara,
An Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara and Cregmore GAA Club

Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 9, 15

7.56 Ros a Mhil Community Centre, Connemara - The Environment Department operated

7.57

two CCTV cameras overlooking recycling bottle banks at Ros a Mhil Community
Centre in Connemara, County Galway. These CCTV cameras were used to detect
illegal dumping. The monitoring and recording equipment for these CCTV cameras is
kept in a room in the Community Centre. The Council’s Community Warden and the
Community Centre caretaker (who is not an employee of the Council) have a key to
this room. During the summer months, the Community Centre is used as a Gaelscoil
and the room is made available to teaching staff. This level of access presents a
security vulnerability. The Inquiry Team observed that there were no security
controls in place (such as passwords) to restrict access to the CCTV recording system
or to the CCTV monitor. The Inquiry Team also observed that there was no restriction
on staff or visitors bringing smartphones, cameras or recording devices into the
room. On the day of the inspection, the Inquiry Team noted that the curtains on the
window of this ground floor room were drawn, preventing passers-by outside from
viewing the monitoring screen. However, reliance on the curtains being drawn does
not meet a high security standard and the positioning of the monitoring screen at an
angle which allows viewing from outside presents a security vulnerability.
Furthermore, the Community Warden performs the function of downloading
required CCTV footage onto SD cards. No steps are taken to secure personal data
which is downloaded to SD cards.

An Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara — The Environment Department operated two
CCTV cameras overlooking bottle banks in the grounds of a public house, An Poitin
Stil, Inverin in Connemara, Co. Galway. These CCTV cameras were used to detect
illegal dumping. The monitoring and recording equipment for these CCTV cameras
was kept in the ‘keg room’ at the rear of the bar in An Poitin Stil. The keg room door
is unlocked. Access to the keg room is given to staff but as the door of the keg room
is unlocked, it may be accessed by patrons of the public house. The keg room is used
for general storage as well as for the storage of kegs. The keg room also provides a
means of access to a back door leading to the rear of the premises. In addition, a
Stairway leads from the keg room to the first floor where there are living quarters.
Persons using the living quarters can easily access the keg room. This level of access
to the keg room presents a serious security vulnerability in relation to the monitoring
and recording equipment in the room. The Inquiry Team observed that there were

27

7.58

no security controls in place (such as passwords) to restrict access to the CCTV
recording system or to the CCTV monitor. The Inquiry Team also observed that there
was no restriction on staff or visitors bringing smartphones, cameras or recording
devices into the room while they are on duty.

Cregmore GAA Club — The Environment Department operated one CCTV camera
overlooking recycling bottle banks at the car park of Cregmore GAA Club. This CCTV
camera was used to detect illegal dumping. The recording equipment for this CCTV
camera was kept in a room in the clubhouse of Cregmore GAA Club.

lt emerged that as there is no viewing monitor in the clubhouse, the normal
practice was that the Environment Department officials periodically collected
the CCTV recorder from the clubhouse and brought it to County Hall where
the footage is viewed and downloaded as required. The Inquiry Team were
informed that the viewing of footage recorded at the Cregmore site has not
occurred over the past three years (preceding the date of the inspection). This
situation developed after the Council’s |.T. Department introduced a
prohibition on devices, such as video recorders, being connected or plugged
in to the Council’s I.T. systems. Despite this prohibition, the CCTV system at
Cregmore GAA Club has been allowed to continue to record footage in the
normal way. This arrangement between the Council and Cregmore GAA Club
places the controller, the Council, in a position that it has an unsatisfactory
level of control in respect of its CCTV recording and monitoring equipment.

The Council’s Community Warden did not have a door key to access the
clubhouse. Instead, in order to access the clubhouse, the Community Warden
had to call to a neighbouring house where the clubhouse key is kept. The
Inquiry Team carried out an inspection at Cregmore GAA Club on 19 February,
2019. This inspection appointment was finalised over two weeks earlier — on
4 March, 2019. However, when the Inquiry Team and the Council officials
arrived at Cregmore GAA Club they were unable to access the premises.
Efforts by the Council officials to locate the keyholder failed and it emerged
that the Council officials have no telephone contact details for the keyholder.
Instead, reliance was placed on the expectation that the keyholder will be at
home when the Council officials need to access the clubhouse. The failure to
gain access to the clubhouse to inspect the recording equipment and the
security arrangements in place around it placed the Inquiry Team at a
disadvantage on the day of the inspection.

The Inquiry Team were restricted to examining the outdoor aspects of the
CCTV site and it had to rely on information provided by the Council officials
who attended at the site. The Inquiry Team observed that the Council officials
confirmed that while there is a password on the recording device at Cregmore
GAA Club, it is a shared, generic password. As a result, the Council is unable
to identify precisely which staff members have accessed the CCTV system.

28

7.59

7,60

Where a controller is processing personal data in circumstances where the LED
regime applies, it is subject to security obligations set out in Sections 71(1){f}, 72(1)
and 78 of the 2018 Act. These require that personal data should be processed in a
manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including by
implementation of appropriate technical or organisation security measures, to
protect against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss,
destruction or damage. It is my view that by operating in a way where there were
inadequate restrictions in place to prevent unauthorised access to the personal data
collected via these CCTV systems, the Council infringed its obligations under Sections
71(1)(f), 72(1) and 78 of the 2018 Act.

| welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising that CCTV facilities have been turned off as of October 2020, that all data
downloaded to SD cards has been deleted, and that a policy regarding the use of
personal telephones and smartphones, cameras or recording equipment in the CCTV
room will be implemented. However, as these technical and organisational security
measures were not implemented at the time of the inquiry, | find that the Council its
obligations under Sections 71(1){f), 72(1) and 78 of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.61

ii)

| find that the Council infringed its obligations under Sections 71(1)(f), 72(1) and 78
of the 2018 Act by failing to implement technical or organisational security
measures to protect against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against
accidental loss, destruction or damage of personal data collected via the camera
feeds from the CCTV systems at Ros a Mhil Community Centre, Connemara, An
Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara, and at Cregmore GAA Club.

Access Logs for CCTV Systems at Ros a Mhil Community Centre, Connemara, An

Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara and Cregmore GAA Club

Regime: LED

inquiry Report Issue: 9, 15

7.62

7.63

7.64

The Council officials who attended the inspections were unable to establish whether
any of these CCTV systems had the capability to identify, by date and time, accesses
by staff. | must assess whether the Council has complied with its security obligations
under the 2018 Act in these circumstances.

Where the LED regime applies, Section 82(1) of the 2018 Act obliges a controller to
maintain a data log where it processes persona! data. That log must record, among
other things, the consultation of the personal data by any person. Under Section
82(2), the log must contain sufficient information to establish, among other things,
the identification of the person who consulted the data, insofar as is possible.

It is my view that it should have been possible for the Council to operate a log system
whereby each individual who accessed the camera feeds would have a separate

29

7.65

username that would enable them to be identified. By failing to do so, the Council
infringed Section 82(2) of the 2018 Act.

| welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising that all CCTV cameras at the relevant bottle bank facilities have been
switched off and monitoring equipment removed from Ros a’ Mhil Community
Centre, An Poitin Stil, Inverin and Cregmore GAA Club as of October 2020. However,
as these measures were not implemented at the time of the inquiry, | find the Council
infringed Section 82(2) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.66

I find that the Council infringed Section 82(2) of the 2018 Act by failing to maintain
a data log that recorded the identity of any individual who consulted personal data
contained in the CCTV camera views and recorded footage from Ros a Mhil
Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara and Creqmore
GAA Club.

iii) Access Logs for CCTV feeds in County Hall and at Tuam Regional Offices

Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 2,5, 15

7.67

7,68

During the course of the inspection phase of the inquiry, it was established that
access to the CCTV Viewing Room at County Hall, where the camera feeds are located
for the Housing Department of the Council, was restricted to the Tenancy
Enforcement Officer. The Tenancy Enforcement Officer kept a manual record of each
time the room was accessed and the purpose for the access and a manual record of
all actions conducted in relation to the camera feeds, including testing of the system
and recording requests for downloads. The Inquiry Team concluded that the manual
record is the only method employed by the Council to record accesses to the CCTV
system. Consequently, as the CCTV system has no electronic audit system in place, it
is impossible for the Council to identify precisely what footage the authorised officer
has accessed or when this access occurred. The failure to deploy an electronic audit
trail on the CCTV system of the Housing Department complete with unique user
identification to identify precisely all access to the CCTV system may present a
security vulnerability and exposes the Council to, for example, undetected accesses
to the CCTV system for non-official purposes or unauthorised personnel. | must
assess whether the Council has complied with its security obligations under the 2018
Act in these circumstances.

During the course of the inspection phase of the inquiry, it was also established that
the Garda-authorised community-based CCTV system that is housed in the Tuam
Regional Offices had no functionality to electronically log accesses to the recording
system on which the footage is kept. Consequently, it is impossible for the Council to
identify precisely which staff have accessed or are accessing its CCTV system as no
electronic audit system is in place.

30

7.69 Where the LED regime applies, Section 82(1) of the 2018 Act obliges a controller to
maintain a data log where it processes personal data. That log must record, among
other things, the consultation of the personal data by any person. Under Section
82(2) of the 2018 Act, the log must contain sufficient information to establish, among
other things, the identification of the person who consulted the data, in so far as is
possible.

7.70 Itis my view that it should have been possible for the Council to operate an electronic
log system whereby each individual who accessed the camera feeds would have a
separate username that would enable them to be identified. By failing to do so, the
Council infringed Section 82(2) of the 2018 Act.

7.71 | welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising that access to the CCTV rooms in County Hall and Tuam Regional Offices
have had access restricted to designated persons and that logging systems have been
implemented at both sites. However, as these measures were not implemented at
the time of the inquiry, | find the Council infringed Section 82(2) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.72 I find that the Council infringed Section 82(2) of the 2018 Act by failing to maintain
an electronic data log at the CCTV Room in County Hall and at Tuam Regional
Offices that recorded the identity of any individual who consulted personal data
contained in the CCTV camera views and recorded footage from the locations
covered by the CCTV cameras in question.

(iv) Training and awareness
Regime: GDPR and LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 16

7.73 During the course of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the Inquiry Team observed
that there appeared to be a generally low level of awareness of data protection law
and principles in the Council. For example, the Inquiry Team noted that:

e the Housing Department of the Council commenced use, on a pilot basis, of
a body worn camera for its Housing Tenancy Officer in May 2018 without
conducting a data protection impact assessment or being aware that such an
assessment ought to be conducted; and

® in relation to the application of privacy masking solutions to CCTV cameras
used by the Council in housing estates, the Council appeared to be ofthe view
that the minimisation of the intrusiveness of CCTV cameras did not need to
be prioritised because the estates were under the control of the Council.

7.74 Under Article 24{1) of the GDPR, where the GDPR applies a controller must
implement “appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure and be

able to demonstrate that processing is performed in accordance with” the GDPR.

31

7.75

7,76

777

Similarly, under Section 75{1) of the 2018 Act, where the LED applies a controller
must implement “appropriate technical and organisational measures for the
purposes of ensuring that the processing of personal data for which it is responsible
is performed in accordance with” the 2018 Act.

Raising staff awareness of the principles of data protection and their relevance to the
operations of the controller is an important element of the organisational measures
which ought to be adopted under Article 24(1) of the GDPR and Section 75(1) of the
2018 Act, as applicable.

In its submissions the Council informed the Inquiry Team that:

e Data protection training was given by a consultant and completed by relevant
staff in September — November 2018;

e A full day of comprehensive training on data protection was given by an
external body in July 2019 for 21 relevant senior staff across all departments
of the Council; and

e A further full day of comprehensive training on data protection was given by
an external body in October 2019 for 33 relevant senior staff across all
departments of the Council. This included the Housing Tenancy Enforcement
Officer and staff from the environment section who involved with CCTV and
the resulting processing of personal data.

It is my view that despite the training that the Council informed the Inquiry Team
was provided, the low level of awareness of data protection principles in the Council
that was demonstrated by the issues that were uncovered by the Inquiry Team
indicates that the Council has not complied with its obligations under Article 24(1) of
the GDPR and Section 75(1) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.78

i)

I find that the Council infringed Article 24(1) of the GDPR and Section 75(1) of the
2018 Act by failing to implement appropriate technical and organisational
measures to ensure that processing of personal data was performed in accordance
with the GDPR and the 2018 Act, as applicable.

a 2 Cae ~
Aecess ta COTY Syustenis
~ gem TERe ‘emer e F ‘

Housing Department: Restriction on DPO Access to CCTV Viewing Room

Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 3

Fy be

On the first inspection date (19 November 2018), the Inquiry Team noted that the
controls which were in place at the CCTV Viewing Room in County Hall prohibited
the Data Protection Officer (the ‘DPO’) from access to that room and thereby also

32

7.80

7.81

7.82

restricted the DPO from having oversight of the data processing which takes place
on the CCTV system. The Council submitted that this was a misinterpretation and
that the Council’s policy was in accordance with the Department of Justice and
Equality and An Garda Siochana Code of Practice for Community Based CCTV
Schemes, Form No PDOO1, Section 4.4 which provides that access to the relevant
recorded CCTV images should be restricted to a designated person or persons who
have been Garda vetted. The DPO’s Garda vetting application was pending at this
time. | note from the Final Inquiry Report that the DPO accompanied the Authorised
Officers to the CCTV Viewing Room on the second inspection date of 5 December
2018.

In the Final Inquiry Report, this issue was considered under the GDPR. Now it is
considered under the LED. The differences between these two regimes are set out
above in this Decision.

Section 88(5) of the 2018 Act outlines the functions of DPO. These include monitoring
compliance of the controller with Part 5 of the 2018 Act and monitoring compliance
of the controller with any other law of the European Union or law of the State that
relates to the protection of personal data. Under Section 88(4) of the 2018 Act, a
controller is required to support its DPO in performing his or her functions
under Section 88(5), including by ensuring that he or she has access to processing
operations carried out by the controller.

The restriction of the DPO’s access to the CCTV Viewing Room prevents the DPO from
exercising her statutory functions set out in Section 88(5) of the 2018 Act. It is my
view that there are extenuating circumstances for the temporary restriction of
access on 19 November 2018. However, | would consider a matter of good practice
for the controller to ensure that any prospective DPO complete the Garda vetting
process prior to his or her appointment to the position of DPO in circumstances
where the performance of DPO functions is contingent on the completion of the
vetting process.

Findings

7.83

(i)

I find that the Council did not infringe Section 88(4) of the 2018 Act by prohibiting
the DPO from accessing the CCTV Viewing Room at the time of the initial inspection
on 19 November 2018.

ee Soe

Housing Department: Focus of CCTV Cameras on private homes

Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 1,10

33

7.84 The Housing Department of the Council has deployed CCTV cameras at a number of
housing estates for the detection of anti-social behaviour. The Inquiry Team
inspected these cameras during the investigation. The Inquiry Team were told that
the CCTV system for the Parkmore Estate had the capability to deploy privacy
masking solutions, but it was evident that such solutions were not in operation on
the dates of the first inspection (19 November 2018), as there was fuil view on the
monitoring screens of all aspects of homes such as front and back gardens, front and
back doors and windows. On the date of the second inspection (5 December 2018),
the Inquiry Team noted again that homes in Parkmore Estate that were intended to
be masked on the monitoring screen were, instead, open to full viewing on the
monitoring screen. The Inquiry Team also observed on the monitoring screen views
of back gardens at Bridge Court, Ahascragh and front yards at Crowe Street, Gort.
Furthermore, the Inquiry Team noted that one particular camera in Parkmore Estate
(Camera A — Predator pan, tilt and zoom camera) was capturing CCTV footage from
beyond its intended target of the Parkmore Estate which is under the control of the
local authority. These CCTV cameras are focused on private spaces rather than public
spaces and, accordingly, the cameras have the potential to invade on the privacy of
residents of and visitors of the dwelling houses concerned. | must assess whether the
Council has complied with its data minimisation obligations in these circumstances.

7.85 Data processing under the LED regime must comply with the principle of data
minimisation. This principle is reflected in Section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act, which
requires that “data shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the
purposes for which they are processed.”

7.86 The concept of what is “not excessive” was considered in Deutsche Post AG v
Hauptzollamt Kéin.24 The CJEU considered a requirement of the Principal Customs
Office in Cologne that applicants for the status of an authorised economic operator
submit the tax identification numbers of certain persons in charge of the applicant
company or its customs matters. The purpose of the numbers was to enable the
Office to determine, when responding to an application for AEO status, whether
those persons had infringed customs legislation or had a record of serious criminal
offences relating to their economic activity over the last three years. The Court
acknowledged that the collection of tax identification numbers could enable the
customs authorities to have access to personal data that has no connection with the
economic activity of the applicant for AEO status. However, the criteria for granting
AEO status involved a consideration by the customs authorities of whether those
persons had committed such infringements or offences. The Court held that this
implies that the customs authorities should have access to data that makes it
possible to establish whether the specified infringements or offences have been
committed. It held that the collection of tax identification numbers was not excessive

21 Case C-496/17, Deutsche Post AG v Hauptzollamt K6élIn, judgment of 16 January 2019 (ECLI:EU:C:2019:26).

34

7.87

7.88

7.89

to that purpose. This judgment illustrates the breadth of purposes that must be
considered for determining what is not excessive.

The alleged purpose of the processing of personal data via these CCTV systems is to
detect and reduce incidences of anti-social behaviour at the housing estates in
question. Recording activities on private properties is not relevant to this purpose.
Where the CCTV focuses on both private properties and public places, | find that the
failure to use any privacy masking technology to eliminate or reduce the collection
of personal data which is not required for the purposes for which this processing is
carried out makes this processing excessive to its purpose.

In addition, Section 76(2) of the 2018 Act provides that a controller shall, when
processing personal data, implement appropriate and technical organisational
measures to ensure that only personal data that are necessary for each specific
purpose of the processing are being processed. | find that the Council infringed
section 76(2) of the 2018 Act by failing to implement technical and organisational
measures which ensure that only necessary personal data under the designated
purposes of the CCTV system is collected. An example of such a measure, is
integrating privacy masking into CCTV cameras to ensure that private dwellings are
excluded from the scope of vision of the cameras.

Section 71(10) of the 2018 Act obliges the Council to be in a position to demonstrate,
amongst other things, that the data collected are not excessive in relation to the
purposes for which they are processed. | find that the Council has failed to be ina
position to demonstrate that the focus of the CCTV cameras on the private dwellings
is not excessive to preventing anti-social behaviour Parkmore Estate, Bridge Court,
Ahascragh and Crowe Street, Gort.

Findings:

7.90

7.91

I find that the Council infringed Section 71(1}(c) and Section 76(2) of the 2018 Act
by processing personal data arising from CCTV recordings directed at private
properties, in the absence of any privacy masking technology, at Parkmore Estate,
Bridge Court, Ahascragh and Crowe Street, Gort.

| find that the Council infringed Section 71(10) of the 2018 Act by failing to
demonstrate that its processing of personal data via CCTV cameras at Parkmore
Estate, Bridge Court, Ahascragh and Crowe Street, Gort, is not excessive to its
purpose of preventing anti-social behaviour.

(ii) Environment Department: Collection of personal data relating to children via CCTV
Cameras

Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 9

35

7.92

7.93

7.94

7.95

7,96

4

During the course of the inspection it came to the attention of the Inquiry Team that
during the summer months (June to August inclusive) when the Ros a Mhil
Community Centre is used as a Gaelscoil, up to two hundred minors attend at the
premises each day. On inspecting, via the monitoring screen, the field of vision
captured by the CCTV cameras, the inspectors established that the CCTV cameras
captured the images of these minors as they focused directly on the outdoor
resource area that is used by them for various activities (the bottle-banks are sited
immediately adjacent to the outdoor resource area and users of the bottle-banks
must traverse this area in order to access the bottle-banks). The Community Warden
also confirmed this to be the case. In short, a substantial amount of CCTV footage
was captured over a three-month period each summer by the Council involving
children partaking in day-to-day Gaelscoil outdoor activities that are unrelated in any
way to the Council’s law enforcement functions under the Litter Pollution Act 1997.

The principle of data minimisation is enshrined at Section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act
which provides that the personal data collected by a controller shall be adequate,
relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.
| find that the Council infringed section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act by failing to
implement technical and organisational measures which ensure that only necessary
personal data under the designated purposes of the CCTV system is collected

In addition, Section 76(2) of the 2018 Act further provides that a controller shall,
when processing personal data implement appropriate and technical organisational
measures that only personal data that are necessary for each specific purpose of the
processing are being processed. | find that the Council infringed section 76(2) of the
2018 Act by failing to implement technical and organisational measures which
ensure that only personal data necessary for the performance of the Council's law
enforcement functions under the Litter Pollution Act 1997 are collected.

Section 71(10) of the 2018 Act obliges the Council to be in a position to demonstrate,
amongst other things, that the data collected are not excessive in relation to the
purposes for which they are processed. | find that the Council has failed to be in a
position to demonstrate that the personal data relating to children collected via the
CCTV cameras is not excessive to performing the Council’s law enforcement
functions under the Litter Pollution Act 1997.

| welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising that CCTV monitoring equipment has been removed from Ros a’ Mhil
Community Centre as of October 2020. However, as this monitoring equipment was
in place at the time of the inquiry, | find that the Council infringed its obligations
under Sections 71(1}(c), 76(2 and 71(10).

Findings

7.97

| find that the Council infringed its obligations under Sections 71(1)(c) and 76(2) of
the 2018 Act in connection with the capturing of images of children partaking in

36

the outdoor activities at a Gaeilscoil at Ros a Mhil Community Centre during the
summer months.

7.98 I find that the Council infringed Section 71(10) of the 2018 Act by failing to be in a
position to demonstrate that its processing of personal data relating to children via
these CCTV cameras is not excessive to performing the Council’s law enforcement
functions under the Litter Pollution Act 1997.

(i) Data protection impact assessments for CCTV cameras
Regime: LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 8, 9, 10

7.99 Section 84(1) of the 2018 Act provides that:

“Where having regard to its nature, scope, context and purposes, « type of
processing, and in particular a type of processing using new technology, is likely
to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, the controller
that is proposing to carry out the processing shall conduct an assessment of the
likely impact of the proposed processing operations on the protection of
personal data (in this Part referred to as a “data protection impact
assessment”) prior to carrying out the processing.”

7.100The Council did not provide the Inquiry Team with any evidence of a data protection
impact assessment having been carried out:

e inrespect of the use of the CCTV cameras at the bottle bank facilities at Ros
a Mhil Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara and
Cregmore GAA Club;

e inrespect of the engagement of the services of CU Security to conduct covert
surveillance; or

e in respect of the use of intelligent integrated CCTV cameras at Tirboy and
Parkmore Estates in Tuam

in each case in connection with the performance by the Council of its law
enforcement functions in relation to the prevention, investigation, detection or
prosecution of offences.

7.101 Under Article 35(4) of the GDPR, the DPC has specified circumstances in which a data
protection impact assessment is mandatory where the GDPR applies, and these
include systematically monitoring, tracking or observing individuals’ location or
behaviour. It is my view that it is clear that under Section 84 of the 2018 Aci, a data
protection impact assessment is similarly required where surveillance technology
will be used for systematically monitoring, tracking or observing individuals’

37

behaviour in circumstances where the LED applies. The Council stated that it was in
the process of or intended to conduct data protection impact assessments in respect
of its use of CCTV cameras at these bottle bank facilities, for covert surveillance
purposes and at these estates. However, no such assessments had been carried out
at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry.

7.1021 find that the Council infringed its obligations under Section 84 of the 2018 Act by
failing to have carried out any data protection impact assessments in respect of its
use of CCTV cameras at the relevant bottle bank facilities and housing estates.
Although no covert surveillance was being carried out at the time that the Inquiry
Team carried out its inspections, the Council stated in its submissions that it has
“utilised covert surveillance for the purpose of initiating and successfully pursuing
prosecutions based on an evidential collection of data” and included photographic
evidence of illegal dumping to support this. The Council did not provide any evidence
of having complied with its obligations under Section 84 of the 2018 Act in respect
of covert surveillance and at the time of the inspection, the Inquiry Team found no
evidence of a data protection impact assessment or an equivalent exercise having
been carried out to test the necessity of the use of covert CCTV cameras.

7.1031 welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising that the Council will conduct data protection impact assessments in respect
of any proposed future use of CCTV cameras. However, as the Council failed to carry
out any data protection impact assessments at the relevant bottle bank facilities and
housing estates in respect of the use of CCTV cameras, | find that the Council
infringed its obligations under Sections 84 of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.1041 find that the Council infringed Section 84 of the 2018 Act by failing to carry outa
data protection impact assessment for the deployment of CCTV cameras at the
bottle bank facilities at Ros a Mhil Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil,
inverin, Connemara and Cregmore GAA Club and at Tirboy Estate and Parkmore
Estate and in relation to covert surveillance previously carried out by the Council.

(i) Data protection impact assessments for ANPR cameras
Regime: GDPR and LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 11, 12

7.105As set out above at paragraphs 7.21 to 7.36, as part of a CCTV upgrade the Council
installed ANPR cameras in two housing estates in Tuam, namely Parkmore and
Tirboy, as a wider estate enhancement scheme in 2017 to include a traffic
management system and to detect possible anti-social behaviour events.

38

7.106As set out above at paragraphs 7.101 and 7.102, under Article 35(1) of the GDPR
(where the GDPR applies) and Section 84(1) of the 2018 Act (where the LED applies),
a data protection impact assessment is required where ANPR cameras will be used
for systematically monitoring, tracking or observing individuals’ location or
behaviour. Since the Council did not provide the Inquiry Team with any evidence of
a data protection impact assessment having been carried out, | find that the Council
infringed Article 35 of the GDPR and Section 84(1) of the 2018 Act in these
circumstances.

7.107] welcome the Council’s submission that in respect of any future proposal to erect
ANPR cameras, a data protection impact assessment will be conducted to determine
the appropriate legal basis, necessity and proportionality. However, as an
assessment was not carried out in respect of the ANPR cameras in operation at the
time of the inquiry, | find that the Council infringed Article 35(1) GDPR and Section
84(1) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.1081 find that the Council infringed Article 35(1) of the GDPR and Section 84(1} of the
2018 Act by failing to carry out a data protection impact assessment for the
deployment of the ANPR cameras at Tirboy Estate and Parkmore Estate for traffic
management and law enforcement purposes, respectively.

(ii) Housing Department: Data protection policy for ANPR cameras
Regime: LED and GDPR
Inquiry Report Issue: 13

7.109 Section 75{1) of the 2018 Act provides that (where the LED applies):

a controller shall implement appropriate technical and organisational
measures for the purposes of —

(a) ensuring that the processing of personal data for which it is responsible is
performed in compliance with this Part, and

(b) demonstrating such compliance.

7.110Section 75(3) further provides that the measures referred to in Section 75(1) shall
include the implementation of an appropriate data protection policy by the
controller, where this is proportionate in relation to the processing activities carried
out by the controller.

7.111Similarly, Article 24(1) of the GDPR provides that (where the GDPR applies) the

controller shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to
ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing is performed in accordance

39

with the GDPR and Article 24(2) of the GDPR provides that, where proportionate, the
measures referred to in Article 24(1) shall include the implementation of appropriate
data protection policies.

7.1121In connection with the Council’s processing of personal data via ANPR cameras, both
for law enforcement purposes and for traffic management purposes, the Inquiry
Team examined the CCTV Policy on the Council’s website at the date of authoring
the Final Inquiry Report. The CCTV Policy referred as follows to the use of ANPR
cameras: “The Council has ANPR cameras in 2 Estates in Tuam and this footage is
covered under the provisions of this policy, with similar restrictions to access as the
Housing Estate CCTV”. No further reference was made in that CCTV Policy to the use
of ANPR cameras.

7.1131 am of the view that the CCTV Policy did not adequately demonstrate compliance
with the 2018 Act with respect to the deployment of ANPR cameras in the relevant
housing estates in Tuam for law enforcement purposes, or compliance with the
GDPR with respect to the deployment of ANPR cameras for traffic management
purposes.

7.1141 welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising the CCTV Policy was updated in December 2020 to include reference to
ANPR and a link to the developed SOP. However, as the CCTV policy was not erected
at the time of the inquiry, | find the Council infringed infringed Article 24 of the GDPR,
interpreted in light of Article 24(2) of the GDPR and Section 75(1) of the 2018 Act,
interpreted in light of Section 75(3) of the 2018 Act

Findings

7.1151 find that the Council infringed Article 24 of the GDPR, interpreted in light of Article
24(2) of the GDPR and Section 75(1) of the 2018 Act, interpreted in light of Section
75(3) of the 2018 Act, by failing to appropriately describe the use of ANPR cameras
in the CCTV Policy which was in place on the date of authoring of the Final Inquiry
Report.

Retention of personal data collected via CCTV cameras
Regime: LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 6, 9

7.1160n 5 December 2018 the Inquiry Team carried out an inspection of the community-
based CCTV scheme in Ballinasloe. On examining the CCTV recording equipment at
the Council’s offices in Ballinasloe, the Inquiry Team noted that footage dating back
eleven months to January 2018 remained accessible on the system. This footage was
retained; however the basis for retention was not that the footage was required for

40

the investigation or prosecution of suspected offences. Section 4.2 of the Code of
Practice for Community Based CCTV Schemes states the following: “CCTV images
should be erased and media storage devices re-used after a period of 28 days unless
required for the investigation of offences or evidential purposes.”

7.1170n 19 February 2018 the Inquiry Team carried out an inspections of the bottle bank
facilities where CCTV cameras are operated by the Council. On examining the CCTV
recording equipment:

e at Ros a Mhil Community Centre, Connemara, the Inquiry Team noted that
footage dating back seven weeks to 2 January 2019 remained accessible on
the system;

e at An Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara, the Inquiry Team noted that footage
dating back eight weeks to 26 December 2018 remained accessible on the
system.

This footage was retained; however the basis for this retention was not that the
footage was required for the investigation or prosecution of suspected offences.

7.118 The principle of storage limitation is set out at Section 71(1)(e) of the 2018 Act, which
provides that personal data shall be kept in a form that permits the identification of
a data subject for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the data are
processed. | am of the view that the Council infringed this requirement by retaining
CCTV footage for:

e upto 11 months after it was recorded via the CCTV scheme at Ballinasloe;

¢ up to 7 weeks after it was recorded via the CCTV cameras at Ros a Mhil
Community Centre, Connemara; and

e up to 8 weeks after it was recorded via the CCTV cameras at An Poitin Stil,
Inverin, Connemara.

7.1191 welcome the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
advising that all CCTV cameras at bottle bank facilities have been switched off, that
the monitoring equipment has been removed from Ros a Mhil Community Centre,
An Poitin Stil, Inverin as of October 2020, and that the Ballinasloe CCTV Scheme
cameras are no longer recording. However, as footage was retained by the Council
in excess of the prescribed period of time during the inquiry, | find the Council
infringed Sections 71(1)(e) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.1201 find that the Council infringed its obligations under Section 71(1)(e) of the 2018
Act in respect of the retention of personal data for longer than is necessary for
purposes for which that data are processed via the community-based CCTV scheme
at Ballinasloe and the CCTV cameras at Ros a Mhil Community Centre and at An
Poitin Stil, Inverin.

41

co -_ a a tet . 2 id fe
res EEIStoOn OO ( orre CP EUVE Pry Pars
“ Wat “ont et Ft Naat ‘3 f i ee Tye TS wT Sy

8.1 The following table lists the infringements | have found in this Decision.

Instances of the Infringement

| have found the Council has infringed this section by:

Statutory Provision
Section 71(1)(a) of the
2018 Act

Unlawfully processing data from CCTV cameras at the relevant
bottle bank facilities.

Failing to erect appropriately worded and located signage or by
providing the necessary information to data subjects in respect of
the processing of personal data collected via these CCTV cameras
_ - for purposes related to law enforcement.

Section 71(2)(a) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:

2018 Act

Processing of personal data from ANPR cameras at the Parkmore
and Tirboy without a clear legal basis to do so.

Article 5(1)(a) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this Article by:
GDPR
|

| Not having a lawful basis to process personal data from ANPR |
cameras for the purposes of traffic management;
| Not having a lawful basis to process personal data via body worn
______| cameras for staffhealth and safety purposes,
Section 90(1) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act
Failing to erect appropriately worded and located signage or
provide the necessary information to data subjects in respect of
the processing of personal data collected via these CCTV cameras
- — for purposes related to law enforcement.
Section 71(1){f) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act |
Failing to implement technical or organisational security measures
to protect against unauthorised or unlawful processing and
against accidental loss, destruction or damage of personal data
collected via the camera feeds from the CCTV systems at Ros a
Mhil Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil, Inverin,
ee ___| Connemara, and at Cregmore GAA Club.
Section 72(1) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act

| Failing to implement technical or organisational security measures

| to protect against unauthorised or unlawful processing and

against accidental loss, destruction or damage of personal data |

collected via the camera feeds from the CCTV systems at Ros a

Mhil Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil, Inverin,
____,| Connemara, and at Cregmore GAA Club.

42

Section 78 of the 2018 | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:
|
Act

Failing to implement technical or organisational security measures
| to protect against unauthorised or unlawful processing and
against accidental loss, destruction or damage of personal data
collected via the camera feeds from the CCTV systems at Ros a
Mhil Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil, !nverin,
Po Connemara, and at Cregmore GAA Club.
Section 82(2) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act
Failing to maintain a data log that recorded the identity of any
individual who consulted personal data contained in the CCTV
| camera views and recorded footage from Ros a Mhil Community
| Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil, Inverin, Connemara and

| Cregmore GAA Club.

|
| Failing to maintain an electronic data log at the CCTV Room in
County Hall and at Tuam Regional Offices that recorded the
identity of any individual who consulted personal data contained
in the CCTV camera views and recorded footage from the locations
_ covered by the CCTV cameras in question

!

| Article 24(1) of the. [have found the Council has infringed this Article by:
' GDPR

Failing to implement appropriate technical and organisational |

| measures to ensure that processing of personal data was
Po performed in accordance with the GDPR -
Section 75(1) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:

2018 Act

| Failing to implement appropriate technical and organisational
| ' measures to ensure that processing of personal data was
| - | performed in accordance with the 2018 Act.
Section 71(1)(c) of the | have found the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act

Processing personal data arising from CCTV recordings directed at
| private properties, in the absence of any privacy masking
technology, at Parkmore Estate, Bridge Court, Ahascragh and
Crowe Street, Gort.
| |
capturing of images of children partaking in the outdoor activities
at a Gaeilscoil at Ros a Mhil Community Centre during the summer
a | months 2
Section 76(2) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act
| Processing personal data arising from CCTV recordings directed at
private properties, in the absence of any privacy masking
| technology, at Parkmore Estate, Bridge Court, Ahascragh and
__| Crowe Street, Gort.

43


| Capturing of images of children partaking in the outdoor activities

ata Gaeilscoil at Ros a Mhil Community Centre during the summer
months

Section 71(10) of the || have found the Council has infringed this section by:

2018 Act

Failing to demonstrate that its processing of personal data via
CCTV cameras at Parkmore Estate, Bridge Court, Ahascragh and
Crowe Street, Gort, is not excessive to its purpose of preventing
anti-social behaviour.

Failing to demonstrate that its processing of personal data relating
to children via these CCTV cameras is not excessive to performing |
the Council’s law enforcement functions under the Litter Pollution
_| Act 1997. _
Section 84 of the 2018 | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:
Act

Failing to carry out a data protection impact assessment for the
deployment of CCTV cameras at the bottle bank facilities at Ros a
Mhil Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil, Inverin,
Connemara and Cregmore GAA Club and at Tirboy Estate and
Parkmore Estate and in relation to covert surveillance previously
— carried out by the Council oe
Article 35({1) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this Article by:
GDPR

Failing to carry out a data protection impact assessment for the
deployment of the ANPR cameras at Tirboy Estate and Parkmore
| Estate for traffic management and law enforcement purposes,
7 respectively _ oe

Section 84(1) of the | | have found the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act |
Failing to carry out a data protection impact assessment for the
| deployment of the ANPR cameras at Tirboy Estate and Parkmore
Estate for traffic management and law enforcement purposes,
respectively. ee
| have found the Council has infringed this Article by:

=

Article 24 of the GDPR,
interpreted in light of
Article 24(2) of the
GDPR

Failing to appropriately describe the use of ANPR cameras in the |
CCTV Policy which was in place on the date of authoring of the
Final Inquiry Report. a |
| have found the Council has infringed this section by:

Section 75(1) of the
2018 Act, interpreted
in light of Section
75(3) of the 2018 Act

Failing to appropriately describe the use of ANPR cameras in the |
of authoring of the

CCTV Policy which was in place on the date
Final Inquiry Report. |

| have found the Council has infringed this Article by: |

Section 71(1)(e} of the
2018 A

Oo

Ad

| Retaining of personal data for longer than is necessary for
purposes for which that data are processed via the community-
based CCTV scheme at Ballinasloe and the CCTV cameras at Ros a
Mhil Community Centre and at An Poitin Stil, Inverin. a
8.2 Having considered the infringements that | found in this Decision, | have to exercise
corrective powers in accordance with sections 111(3) and 124(3) of the 2018 Act. My
analysis in respect of whether an administrative fine is merited in light of the
Council’s infringements of the GDPR will be detailed subsequently in this Decision. |
have set out below the corrective powers, pursuant to sections 115(1) and 127(1) of
the 2018 Act, which | have decided to exercise.

i. Lawful Bases for the Processing

| No. |. Action Z ee ee Time Scale

4. Infringement of Section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act | The Council is required to
by unlawfully processing data from CCTV | confirm to the Data Protection
cameras at the relevant bottle bank facilities and | Commission within 90 days of
by failing to erect appropriately worded and receiving the final Decision
located signage or by providing the necessary | that the cameras are switched
information to data subjects in respect of the off, unless a valid legal basis

processing of personal data collected via these for the processing can be
CCTV cameras for purposes related to law _ identified in the meantime.
enforcement.

| find that there is no lawful basis for the Council’s
processing of personal data by means of CCTV
cameras at the relevant bottle bank facilities. |
propose to impose a temporary ban on the
Council’s use of CCTV at these locations. This
processing must not resume unless, and until, |
there is a basis for it in EU or Member State Law,
for example an authorisation received from the
Garda Commissioner pursuant to section 38(3)(c)
|
|

of the 2005 Act that regulates such processing in

accordance with Article 8(2) of the LED.

Infringement of Section 71(2}(a) of the 2018 Act In respect of any CCTV

by unlawfully processing data from ANPR cameras which have ANPR

cameras at Parkmore and Tirboy housing estates | facilities, all functionality on

without a clear legal basis to do so. these CCTV cameras shall be
switched off within 90 days of

| find that there is no lawful basis for the Council’s | receiving this Decision, unless

processing of personal data by means of CCTV a valid legal basis for the
cameras at Parkmore and Tirboy estates. | | processing can be identified in
propose to impose a temporary ban on the the meantime.

Council’s use of CCTV at these locations. This
processing must not resume unless, and until,

45

for example an authorisation received from the
Garda Commissioner pursuant to section 38(3)(c) |
of the 2005 Act that regulates such processing in | |
accordance with Article 8(2) of the LED. | |
Infringement Article 5{1)(a) of the GDPR by not! The Council shall confirm to
having a lawful basis to process personal data via the DPC within 90 days of

body worn cameras for staff health and safety | receiving the Decision that

purposes. body-worn cameras are not in
use unless a valid legal basis

| find that there is no lawful basis for the Council’s can be identified in the

processing of personal data by means of body meantime.

worn cameras. | propose to impose a temporary

ban on the Council’s use of body worn cameras. |
The processing must not resume unless, and

until, there is there is a basis for it in EU or

Member State Law.

ee

j Action — ee | Time Scale

4, Infringement of 90(1) of the 2018 Act by failing | Com plete tasks and submit
to erect appropriately worded and located report to the DPC detailing
signage or by providing the necessary the action taken within 90
information to data subjects in respect of the days of receipt of the final
processing of personal data collected via these decision.
CCTV cameras for purposes related to law
enforcement.

' The Council shall erect appropriately worded
and located signage or by providing the
necessary information to data subjects in
respect of the processing of personal data
collected via these CCTV cameras for purposes
related to law enforcement prior to use of CCTV
cameras at these locations.

iii. Technical and organisational measures

a = oO. | Action | Times neScale am
| Infringement of obligations under Sections Complete Complete tasks and submit _

| 71(1)(f), 72(1) and 78 of the 2018 Act by failing report to the DPC detailing

| to implement technical or organisational the action taken within 90 |

| security measures to protect against days of the receipt of the final _

unauthorised or unlawful processing and against decision.
accidental loss, destruction or damage of

personal data collected via the camera feeds .

|___|___ from the CCTV systems at Ros a Mhil | _

46

Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil,
Inverin, Connemara, and at Cregmore GAA Club.

| The Council shall bring its processing operations
| into compliance with the 2018 Act by
implementing security measures to limit access
to the room containing CCTV footage and |
equipment to authorised persons only.

The Council shall implement measures to secure
CCTV footage downloaded to SD cards.

The Council shall implement a policy regarding
the use of personal telephones and
smartphones, cameras or recording equipment

inthe CCTVroom. _ |
| 6. | Infringement of Section 82(2) of the 2018 Act by | Complete tasks and submit
| | failing to maintain a data log that recorded the report to the DPC detailing
| identity of any individual who consulted the action taken within 90
| personal data contained in the CCTV camera days of the receipt of the final
views and recorded footage from Ros a Mhil decision.

Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil,
Inverin, Connemara and Cregmore GAA Club.

The council shall create and maintain a data log
to identify any individual who consulted
personal data contained in the CCTV camera
views and recorded footage from Ros a Mhil
Community Centre, Connemara, An Poitin Stil,

|
|
|
|

Infringement of Section 82(2) of the 2018 Act by | Complete tasks and submit |

failing to maintain an electronic data log at the report to the DPC detailing
CCTV Room in County Hall and at Tuam Regional the action taken within 90
Offices that recorded the identity of any days of the receipt of the final |
individual who consulted personal data decision.

|
contained in the CCTV camera views and |
| recorded footage from the locations covered by |
the CCTV cameras in question.

The Council shall create and maintain an
| electronic data log at the CCTV Room in County

| Hall and at Tuam Regional Offices that recorded
| the identity of any individual who consulted
personal data contained in the CCTV camera
| views and recorded footage from the locations
| | _ covered by the CCTV camerasin question. __

47

8. Infringement Section 71(1)(c) and Section 76(2)
of the 2018 Act by processing personal data
arising from CCTV recordings directed at private the action taken within 90
| properties, in the absence of any privacy days of the receipt of the final
| masking technology, at Parkmore Estate, Bridge decision.
Court, Ahascragh and Crowe Street, Gort

report to the DPC detailing

| order the Council to integrate appropriate
technical and organisational measures as
required by section 76 of the 2018 Act in
respect of the CCTV cameras which were subject
to surveillance at monitoring centres. These
technical and organisational measures could
include privacy masking and/or preventing
manual control of the CCTV cameras by
operators of the monitoring centres.

iv. Accountability

No. _| Action 7 | TimeScale |
9. The Council infringed Section 71(10) of the CCTV cameras to be switched
, 2018 Act by failing to be in a position to off within 90 days of the

data relating to children via these CCTV
cameras is not excessive to performing the

| Council’s law enforcement functions under the
Litter Pollution Act 1997.

demonstrate that its processing of personal receipt of the final decision.

The Council shall cease processing of personal

| data relating to children via CCTV cameras at
the Gaelscoil at Ros a’ Mhil Community Centre
until a data protection impact assessment has
been carried out and any necessary safeguards
are implemented, as required.

10. Infringement of Article 35(1) of the GDPR and
Section 84(1) of the 2018 Act by failing to carry appropriate legal basis and

out a data protection impact assessment for intends to recommence

the deployment of the ANPR cameras at Tirboy | processing personal data with

Estate and Parkmore Estate for traffic ANPR cameras, prior to

management and law enforcement purposes, commencing processing

respectively. Order 10 must be complied
with.

The Council shall carry out data protection
impact assessments at Tirboy Estate and
Parkmore Estate prior to any future deployment
_of ANPR cameras for traffic management and

48

If the Council identifies an

Complete tasks and submit |

law enforcement purpose under an appropriate | |
legalbase, |
Infringement of Article 24 of the GDPR, | N/A
interpreted in light of Article 24(2) of the GDPR

and Section 75(1) of the 2018 Act, interpreted in |
light of Section 75(3) of the 2018 Act, by failing |
to appropriately describe the use of ANPR

cameras in the CCTV Policy which was in place
on the date of authoring of the Final Inquiry

Report.

l issue a reprimand to the Council for failing to |
accurately describe its use of ANPR cameras in
the CCTV policy.

v. Data Retention

Action | Time Scale
Infringement of obligations under Section The Council is required to
71(1)(e) of the 2018 Act in respect of the confirm to the Data Protection
retention of personal data for longer than is Commission within 90 days of |
necessary for purposes for which that data are receiving the final Decision
| processed via the community-based CCTV that the cameras are switched |
scheme at Ballinasloe and the CCTV cameras at off, unless a valid legal basis
Ros a Mhil Community Centre and at An Poitin for the processing can be
Stil, Inverin. identified in the meantime

The Council shall retain personal data in the
form of CCTV for no longer than a period of 28
days unless required for the investigation of
offences or evidential purposes.

9.1 Article 58(2)(i) of the GDPR empowers me, as Decision-Maker, in addition to other
corrective powers exercised, to impose an administrative fine on a controller who
infringes the GDPR. Section 141(4) of the 2018 Act provides that an administrative
fine shall not exceed €1,000,000 where the controller subject to the fine is a public
authority or public body and does not act as an undertaking within the meaning of
the Competition Act 2002. | find the Council is a public body and does not act as an
undertaking within the meaning of the Competition Act 2002. Therefore, the fining
cap of €1,000,000 applies.

9.2 In deciding on the corrective powers that are to be exercised in respect of the
infringements of Articles 5(1)(a) and 35(1) of the GDPR, | have had due regard to the
Commission’s power to impose administrative fines pursuant to Section 141 of the

49

2018 Act. In particular, | have considered the criteria set out in Article 83(2)(a) — (k) of
the GDPR. When imposing corrective powers, | am obliged to select the measures that
are effective, proportionate and dissuasive in response to the particular
infringements. The assessment of what is effective, proportionate and dissuasive must
be made in the context of the objective pursued by the corrective measures, for
example re-establishing compliance with the GDPR or punishing unlawful behaviour
(or both).2? In all circumstances of the infringements at issue in the inquiry, | find that
an administrative fine would not be necessary, proportionate or dissuasive. In this
context, | have considered the Council’s infringement of Article 5(1)(a) GDPR by its
processing of personal data through ANPR cameras without a valid legal basis, the
Council’s infringement of Article 5(1)({a) GDPR by processing data from body worn
cameras without a valid legal basis, and the Council’s infringement of Article 35(1)
GDPR by failing to carry out a data protection impact assessment for the deployment
of the ANPR cameras at Tirboy Estate and Parkmore Estate for traffic management
and law enforcement purposes. Furthermore, | have given due consideration to the
fulsome response of the Council in acknowledging the infringements and
expeditiously addressing the matters identified.

WN Keo PS pO
Pie ei se a - ? ee aoa
LU. ‘O0s ene OF ‘anv’ Did

10.1This Decision is issued in accordance with Sections 111 and 124 of the 2018 Act.
Pursuant to Section 150(5) of the 2018 Act, the Council has the right to appeal against
this Decision within 28 days from the date on which notice of this Decision is received
by it.

22 See the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party ‘Guidelines on the application and setting of administrative
fines for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, at page 11.

30