
The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are organizing a consultation "5 years of GDPR implementation: problems, solutions, penalties and examples of good practice" on May 5, 2023, starting at 10 a.m., in Zagreb, Rooseveltov trg 2 (Hrvatska gospodarska chamber).
This consultation is organized by HGK and the Agency on the occasion of the 5th anniversary of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a legal regulation that is directly applicable in its entirety in the European Union from May 25, 2018, and which marked a turning point in the field of personal data protection and significantly changed the awareness of the importance of personal data protection among business entities and individuals.
The goal of the General Data Protection Regulation is to protect the personal data of natural persons, provide citizens with control over their personal data and create a high and uniform level of personal data protection in the European Union.
The General Data Protection Regulation determines the rights of individuals and, accordingly, the obligations of entities that process personal data. The general regulation on data protection must be applied by all business entities that collect, store and in any way process personal data of Croatian citizens and citizens from the European Economic Area.
Also, what we especially want to point out on the 5th anniversary of the GDPR: all organizations that process personal data must be familiar with the rights of individuals regarding the processing of their personal data and enable them to exercise their rights.
Numerous supervisory and educational activities carried out by the Agency have clearly shown that the level of compliance with the legislative framework for data protection in the Republic of Croatia is not at a satisfactory level. The agency continuously provides support primarily to personal data protection officers and micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs through the EU projects ARC and ARC2.
It is high time that companies, public authorities and all managers/executors of processing understand that the deadline for adaptation has long passed and that after 5 years from the start of the full application of the GDPR, lack of information and ignorance cannot be a justification and an excuse for the violation of fundamental rights Croatian and European citizens.
Furthermore, on this occasion, the Agency would like to point out the key role in the personal data protection system played by data protection officers, who are often the weakest link. In addition to adequate knowledge in the field of personal data protection, employees must have a good knowledge of the business processes of the organization in which they work, continuously educate themselves, and at the same time educate employees in the organization in which they act as employees.
The aim of the organization of this consultation is to provide managers and processors and data protection officers with the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the latest trends and examples of good practice in the field of personal data protection, to share with AZOP experts the problems they face in the application of the GDPR, and with they are supported by solutions that will raise the level of compliance in their organizations to a higher level.
The Agency points out that investment in personal data protection and information security has not been an investment that is necessary and desirable for a long time, but has become an investment that is necessary and necessary for successful business.
GDPR is here to stay, and data protection will become more and more important in the era of big data and artificial intelligence, as we could see with the example of the ban on Chat GPT in Italy, whose use was banned by the Italian supervisory authority for violating the GDPR for data protection.
The number of places is limited, so we invite all interested representatives of managers and processors to apply for participation as soon as possible via the registration form, and no later than May 2, 2023 at 12 noon. Participation is free, and registration is required. Applications are received through the Croatian Chamber of Commerce at the link: https://www.hgk.hr/savjetovanje-o-zastiti-osobnih-podatka-5-godina-primjene-gdpr-a-problemi-rjesenja-kazne-i-primjeri- good practices
If you have questions that you would like to ask the lecturers or suggest topics for discussion, please submit them via the registration form.

COUNSELING PROGRAM:
10:00 – 10:10 Introductory speeches
Ph.D.Sc. Petar Mišević, adviser to the president of HGK and vice-chancellor of the University of the North
Zdravko Vukić, director of the Personal Data Protection Agency and member of the European Data Protection Board

10:10 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. "Harmonizing business processes with GDPR: what do organizations do most wrong?"
Marko Trošelj, mag.iur., senior advisor specialist, Agency for the Protection of Personal Data

11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. "Supervisory and investigative activities of AZOP: what you need to know and how to prepare?"
Mario Milner, Head of the Sector for Supervision, Investigations and Protection of Data Subjects' Rights, Agency for the Protection of Personal Data

12:00 – 12:45 BREAK

12:45 – 13:45 "Penalties for violators of the GDPR and the Act on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation: the practice of AZOP and EU supervisory authorities for data protection"

Iva Katić, M.Sc., President of the Commission for Imposing Administrative Fines, Agency for the Protection of Personal Data

13:45 – 14:45 "Technical and organizational measures for data protection: examples of good practice"

Marko Šijan, B.Sc., senior specialist advisor, Personal Data Protection Agency and member of the EDPB Subgroup for Technology

14:45 – 15:30 "Advisory activities of AZOP: ARC 2 project and coordinated action of the European Data Protection Board for data protection officers"
Anamarija Mladinić, head of the Service for legal advice, cooperation and projects and member of the Office of the Committee of Convention 108 of the Council of Europe

