1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00221/2019

938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00221/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity PIZZERIA LA RUSTICA, owner of the website:
***URL.1, (hereinafter, "the entity claimed"), in view of the complaint filed by
A.A.A., (hereinafter, "the claimant"), and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: on 11/17/18, the claimant submitted a document to this AEPD, in the
which, among others, indicated: “The website ***URL.1 has not only illegally located me at
through cookies or by tracking my IP, but also does not contain ANY KIND OF
PRIVACY POLICY, in accordance with current legislation”.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD). A) Yes,
On 02/01/19, an information request is addressed to the entity claimed.

According to a certificate from the Postal Service, the request sent to the entity
claimed was returned to origin, dated 02/12/19, with the annotation “absent from the
delivery” and “not picked up from the list service”.

THIRD: Consulting the website ***URL.1, dated 09/06/19, it is observed that
To place an order you must enter the personal data of: “name and/or email”,
There is no type of banner or link to the "privacy policy", where
report on the processing of personal data that the entity carries out in accordance with
stipulated in the GDPR.

FOURTH: On 09/25/19, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the claimed entity, by virtue of
of the powers established in art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for the infringement of article 13 of the
RGPD, considered very serious, for prescription purposes, in 72.1.h) of the
LOPDGDD.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the entity claimed, by means of a written
dated 10/09/19, made, in summary, the following allegations:

“That due to problems with the company that designed the Web page, they had
omitted the inclusion in the Web page ***URL.1 of the clauses of the Policy of
Privacy, Legal Notice, Cookies Policies and General Conditions of
Hiring, as indicated by current regulations Law 34/2002 of July 11,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

services of the information society and electronic commerce and that
To meet this requirement, the actions carried out are detailed:

1.- The website ***URL.1 has been updated, according to the
regulation mentioned above, incorporating on its website, the Notice
Legal, clauses of Privacy Policy, General Conditions of
Contracting and Cookie Policies.

2- We have proceeded to comply according to the instructions of the A.E.P.D. with it
stipulated in Art. 13 of the RGPD.

3- That the URL of the Web address is provided so that they can verify that
the web page ***URL.1, complies with what is indicated in the previous points
exposed”.

SIXTH: On 11/22/19, the respondent entity was notified of the proposed resolution
tion in which it is proposed that, by the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data proceed to the FILE of this sanctioning procedure as there is no
violation of the provisions of the RGPD, having verified that on the website of the
claimed entity ***URL.1, there is a link to its "privacy policy" where it is informed
information to the client of the data controller, his identity and contact details, the
purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis of the treatment-
treatment, as well as the rights of access, rectification, limitation of treatment,
portability, opposition to the treatment and deletion of the data, before whom to do it and
how to do it.

SEVENTH: Once the resolution proposal has been notified, the entity complained against does not present
allegations to the proposal in the period granted for this purpose.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

1.- On 11/11/19, it is verified that on the website ***URL.1, in a link to the policy
of privacy the following information is offered:

“In compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 201
61679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 and the or-
Law 312018 of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and Ga-
guarantee of the Digital Rights we inform you that the data you provide
nados will be processed by B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, with
address at ***DOMICILIO.1, in order to provide the requested service
and/or contracted, billing the same.

The legal basis for the treatment of your data is the execution of the service by
you hired and requested. The prospective offer of products and services
is based on the consent that is requested, without in any case the
Withdrawal of this consent conditions the execution of the contract. The data
provided will be kept as long as the commercial relationship is maintained or

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

during the years necessary to comply with legal obligations. Them-
These will not be transferred to third parties except in cases where there is an obligation
legal.

You have the right to obtain confirmation as to whether B.B.B. is treating your
personal data and therefore you have the right to exercise your rights of access,
rectification, limitation of treatment, portability, opposition to treatment and
deletion of your data as well as the right to file a claim with
the Control Authority by writing to the postal address above
mentioned or electronic ***EMAIL.1, attaching a copy of the DNI in both
you are Likewise, we request your authorization to offer you products and services.
services related to those requested, provided as marketed by
our entity and thus be able to treat you as a client”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

II

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
knowledge of the AEPD a vision of the denounced action that has been
reflected in the facts declared proven above reported.

In the present case, it has been found that the claimed website ***URL.1 has
a link to its "privacy policy" where the client is informed of the person responsible for the
treatment, your identity and contact information, the purposes of the treatment to which
the personal data and the legal basis of the treatment, as well as the
rights of access, rectification, treatment limitation, portability, opposition to
treatment and deletion of data, before whom to do it and how to do it.

In short, from the information provided by the entity to this Agency in the
allegations at the initiation of the file, it follows that the facts reported are not
are contrary to the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, in relation to the
data processing.

In accordance with what was indicated, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data,

HE REMEMBERS:

FILE: procedure PS/00221/2019, initiated at the entity PIZZERIA LA
RUSTICA, owner of the website ***URL.1, for alleged violation of article 13 of the
GDPR.

NOTIFY: this Agreement to the entity, PIZZERIA LA RUSTICA.

In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of December 30,
bre, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, this Resolution is
will make public, once it has been notified to the interested parties. The publication is made

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

will be in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of December 22, of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection on the publication of its Resolutions.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may interpose
have, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection within a period of one month from the day following the notification
fication of this resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

