1/12

 Procedure No.: PS/00029/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 25, 2019, the director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter AEPD) agrees to initiate actions of
investigation in relation to a security breach of personal data (in
hereinafter Security Gap) notified by the HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA-
LA MANCHA, with NIF Q4500146H, regarding the loss of data and improper access
to the history of patients in different hospitals of the aforementioned Autonomous Community.

SESCAM has notified this Agency of the following facts:
 
“The service of “X” of the hospital of “Y” has consulted an archived document of a
patient from the hospital itself and has been shown the documentation of a patient from the
Z's hospital. The path where the files are stored was not configured correctly
files of each patient, sharing the same location for different
hospitals. The identification of the different files was carried out by means of a
number sequence. These aspects caused the substitution of files with the
same name of different patients and the appearance of crossed documents between
different hospitals.”

They report that the security breach affects the confidentiality, integrity and
availability of basic and health data on some 431 patients.

SECOND: In view of the notified facts and the documents provided by the
responsible for the treatment, the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection initiates
preliminary investigative actions to clarify the reported facts
by SESCAM, by virtue of its investigative powers, having knowledge of
the following extremes:

BACKGROUND

Security breach notification date: 09/16/2019

INVESTIGATED ENTITY

HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA (hereinafter SESCAM), with NIF
Q4500146H and with address at Avenida Río Guadiana 4, 45071 - Toledo (Toledo)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION ACTIONS
Regarding the facts.

There has been an overlapping of attached files within the application.

VITROPATH tion (VITROPATH is an integrated system for managing the ser-
Anatomical Pathology service) by the users of the application in four Hospi-
such as SESCAM.
They emphasize that the improperly indexed information only corresponds to the files
ros attached to the report made by the Pathology Service. In no case is
has deindexed the report made based on the attached file, with which
that the information provided to doctors and patients is not compromised given
that the attached file is only consulted from the Pathological Anatomy Service itself.
logic.
There are 423 files that could not be recovered. It has been made known
of the Pathological Anatomy services of the affected centers to analyze
the possibility of recovering information from paper copies.



The chronology of events is as follows:

On 09/09/2019 at 12:50 a call is received at the Medical Image Support
of VITROPATH notifying that they had received an incident indicating that
from the Puertollano Hospital were consulting attached documents in VI-
TROPATH and documents from another Hospital appeared.
This incident was communicated by the Head of Service of one of the Hospitals
attached to SESCAM directly to the VITROPATH provider by email.
instead of communicating it through the IRIS incident recording system as
as it is protocolized.
The incident reaches SESCAM by telephone communication from the supplier to the group
of Medical Image Support. After analyzing the problem by the Image Support group,
Medical gene together with Middleware support it was discovered that in the deployments of
VITROPATH had not configured the path where the ad files are stored.
together, defaulting to the path c:\temp that stores the report in the directory
root of the OAS. As there is more than one VITROPATH deployment in the same OAS and
when the application uses a numerical sequence to identify the uploaded files,
documents with the same identifier have overlapped.
This incidence has caused that attached files have been overlapped and

has deindexed the patient documentation that had been attached to the
patient history in VITROPATH. Another consequence of this overlap is
that reports associated with a patient were being viewed by different Services
rent.
These attached documents correspond to requests and reports of tests carried out
zed in external centers that are attached to the VITROPATH report.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

Each of the OAS where VITROPA is deployed has been analyzed.

TH to determine if other SESCAM Hospitals may have been affected.
two, verifying that the incidence has affected four hospitals attached to the
SESCAM.

Regarding the measures implemented prior to the security breach.

They have drawn up a Register of Treatment Activities (RAT), contributes

attached to this Data Inspection, with a description of the activities involved
in the gap:

"Clinical History of SESCAM" for the purpose of Management of Clinical Histories
SESCAM Patient Information
"SESCAM patients" for the purpose of data control and management
identifiers of SESCAM patients.

They do not have Risk Analysis (RA) or Impact Assessments of

For the development of the software there are controls consisting of the realization


Data Protection (EIPD).

tion of a test plan that is agreed with the company hired for this purpose.
There is an established procedure in the Area of Information Technologies

information (ATI) of SESCAM to respond, through Response Groups
to Severe Incidents (GREY), to incidents that occurred in the services of Tecno-
Information Logies.
The Severe Incident Response Groups (GRIS) are made up of, at
least one person from each of the functional units of the Department
of Operation and Service of the ATI and a person from the functional area of the Department
of ITA Projects related to the affected Information System.
Among the functions and objectives of said work team are the
take maximum care of uncertainty in the organization of the situation in the event of incidents
severe, make appropriate decisions during these processes, coordinate the action
technicians and liaise with the ATI Directorate to keep them
informed of the evolution of the event. Coordinate the necessary actions to
a fast and efficient recovery of the affected Information Systems,
so that the organization can operate normally in the shortest possible time.
ble. Prepare a report detailing the evolution of the incident from its
detection and up to the resolution, indicating the measures that should be carried out
out to avoid similar incidents in the future.

Regarding the actions and measures taken in the event of the possible occurrence of the breach.

They notify the security breach to this Agency.

On the occasion of the security breach that occurred, they provide a copy of the report

prepared by the GRIS, detailing and reporting on the evolution of the incident,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

from its detection to its resolution and the measures that the Organization
has adopted to prevent and avoid similar events in the future.
As a concrete measure to prevent an incident from happening again

the same in the GRIS report it is indicated that "they have been included in the tests in Pro-
deployment reduction specific tasks of including attachments and reviewing
location of the file”.

THIRD: On 06/24/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against SESCAM, with NIF Q4500146H,
for the alleged infringement of articles 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 83.5 of the RGPD and 72.1.i) of the LOPDGDD, considered very serious for the purposes of
prescription; and articles 32 and 35.3.b) of the aforementioned RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of
article 83.4 of the RGPD and article 73, sections d), e), f), g) and t) of the LOPDGDD,
considered serious for prescription purposes.
 
FOURTH: On 06/29/2020, the initiation agreement was notified to SESCAM, which did not
filed claims.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 09/09/2019 an incident was detected indicating that from the Hospital
of Puertollano, attached documents were being consulted in VITROPATH and
They had documents from another Hospital.
This incident was communicated directly to the VITROPATH provider by mail
electronically instead of communicating it through the IRIS incident recording system as
as it is protocolized.
SECOND: The incident has its origin in the fact that in VITROPATH deployments
the path where the attached files are stored had not been configured, being
I default to the <<c:\temp>> path that stores the report in the root directory of the OAS. To the
having more than one VITROPATH deployment in the same OAS and when using the application
tion a numerical sequence to identify the uploaded files, they have overlapped do-
documents with the same identifier.
THIRD: This incident has caused attached files to overlap and
the patient documentation that had been attached to the
patient history in VITROPATH. Another consequence of this overlap is the
access to reports associated with a patient by different Services.
FOURTH: It is verified that the incident has affected four Hospitals attached to the
SESCAM.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58, 64.2 and 68.1 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
the director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

II

The RGPD defines in article 4:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;

6) “file”: any structured set of personal data, accessible in accordance with
certain criteria, whether centralized, decentralized or distributed
functional or geographic;

7) “responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person,
public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the
purposes and means of treatment; whether the law of the Union or of the Member States
determines the purposes and means of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the
Specific criteria for their appointment may be established by Union Law.
or of the Member States;

12) "personal data breach" means any breach of security
that causes the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data;

15) "health-related data": personal data relating to physical or mental health
of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, which
disclose information about your health status;

According to the transcribed definitions and research carried out, it should be
conclude that the person responsible for processing the data subject to the aforementioned breach of
security is the SESCAM.

The facts notified to this Agency by SESCAM, in its capacity as responsible for the
treatment, are constitutive of infringement, attributable to SESCAM, for violation of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD that indicates:
<<1. The personal data will be:

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality")>>.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

Obligation that is modalized in article 5 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), which specifies:

<<1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary to

the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even
when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment.>>

Article 24 of the RGPD, responsibility of the data controller, provides:

<< 1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
treatment, as well as risks of varying probability and severity for
rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall apply
appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to guarantee and be able to demonstrate that
the processing is in accordance with this Regulation. These measures will be reviewed
and will update when necessary.

2. When they are provided in relation to treatment activities, between
the measures mentioned in paragraph 1 shall include the application, by the
responsible for the treatment, of the appropriate data protection policies>>.

Article 25 of the RGPD establishes the obligations indicated below:

<<1. Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of the application and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as the risks of various
probability and seriousness that the treatment entails for the rights and freedoms of
natural persons, the data controller will apply, both at the time of
determine the means of treatment as at the time of the treatment itself,
appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymisation, designed
to effectively apply the principles of data protection, such as the
minimization of data, and integrate the necessary guarantees in the treatment, in order to
comply with the requirements of this Regulation and protect the rights of
interested.

2. The data controller will apply the technical and organizational measures
with a view to guaranteeing that, by default, they are only processed
the personal data that is necessary for each of the specific purposes of the
treatment. This obligation will apply to the amount of personal data collected, to
the extension of its treatment, its conservation period and its accessibility. Such
measures shall in particular ensure that, by default, personal data is not
accessible, without the intervention of the person, to an indeterminate number of people
physical.>>

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

Article 28.1 and 2 of the LOPDGDD, regarding the general obligations of the
responsible and in charge of the treatment, indicates the following:

<<1. Those responsible and in charge, taking into account the elements listed in
Articles 24 and 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, will determine the technical measures
and appropriate organizational measures that must be applied in order to guarantee and certify that the
treatment is in accordance with the aforementioned regulation, with this organic law, its
implementing regulations and applicable sectoral legislation. In particular, they will assess whether
proceeds to carry out the impact assessment on data protection and the
prior consultation referred to in Section 3 of Chapter IV of the aforementioned regulation.
2. For the adoption of the measures referred to in the previous section, the
controllers and processors shall take into account, in particular, the
greater risks that could occur in the following cases:

a) When the treatment could generate situations of discrimination, usurpation of
identity or fraud, financial loss, reputational damage, loss of
confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of the
pseudonymization or any other significant economic, moral or social damage to
the affected.

b) When the treatment could deprive those affected of their rights and freedoms or
could prevent them from exercising control over your personal data.

c) When the non-merely incidental or accessory treatment of the
special categories of data referred to in articles 9 and 10 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 9 and 10 of this organic law or data related to the commission
of administrative offenses.

f) When there is massive processing involving a large number of
affected or involves the collection of a large amount of personal data.>>

Article 35.1 and 35.3.b) of the RGPD, on the impact assessment related to the
data protection, indicate the following:

<<1. When a type of treatment, particularly if it uses newer
technologies, due to their nature, scope, context or purposes, entails a high risk for
rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller will perform,
prior to treatment, an assessment of the impact of treatment operations on
the protection of personal data. A single assessment may address a number of
similar processing operations involving similar high risks>>.

<<3. The impact assessment relating to data protection referred to in the
paragraph 1 will be required in particular in case of:

b) large-scale treatment of the special categories of data referred to in the
article 9, paragraph 1, or personal data relating to convictions and offenses
penalties referred to in article 10>>.

In accordance with the provisions of article 35.4 of the RGPD, the AEPD has established and published a
list of types of processing operations that require an evaluation of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

impact.

This list is based on the criteria established by the Article 29 Working Group in
the guide WP248 “Guidelines on impact assessment related to the protection of
data (EIPD) and to determine if the treatment is "likely to carry a high risk"
for the purposes of the RGPD”, complements them and should be understood as a non-exhaustive list:

(…)

<<4. Treatments that imply the use of special categories of data to which
refers to article 9.1 of the RGPD, data related to convictions or criminal offenses to the
referred to in article 10 of the RGPD or data that allow determining the situation
financial or asset solvency or deduce information about people
related to special categories of data>>.

In the aforementioned document (WP248, page 15, III.c) it states the following:
<<The requirement to carry out an DPIA applies to existing processing operations
which are likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of
natural persons and for whom there has been a change in risks, taking into account
account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment.

An EIPD will not be necessary for treatment operations that have been verified
carried out by a control authority or the data protection delegate, in accordance with
ity with article 20 of Directive 95/46/EC, and that they are carried out in a way that does not
has changed since the previous check. In fact, “[t]he decisions of the Co-
mission and authorizations of the control authorities based on the Directive
95/46/EC remain in force until they are modified, replaced or repealed»
(recital 171).

Instead, this means that treatments whose
application conditions (scope, purpose, personal data collected, identity of the
data controllers or recipients, data retention period, measures
technical or organizational measures, etc.) have changed since the previous check
carried out by the control authority or the data protection delegate and that proves
probably entail a high risk.

In addition, an DPIA may be required after a change in the
risks due to treatment operations, for example due to the commissioning of
development of a new technology or that personal data is used for a different purpose.
red. Data processing operations can evolve rapidly and can
new vulnerabilities emerge. Therefore, it should be noted that the revision of a
DPIA is not only useful for continuous improvement, it is also essential
to maintain the level of data protection in an environment that evolves with the
weather. An DPIA may also become necessary due to changes in the context
organizational or social nature of the processing activity, for example because the effects
certain automated decisions have gained importance or that
new categories of stakeholders become vulnerable to discrimination. Each
one of these examples could be an element that causes a change in the relative risk
resulting from the treatment activity in question.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

In terms of context, the data collected, purposes, functionalities, personal data
treated, recipients, data combinations, risks (means of support, causes of
risk, possible effects, threats, etc.), security measures and international transfers.
nationals.

Instead, certain changes could also reduce the risk. For example, an operation
treatment could evolve so that decisions were no longer auto-
nuanced or an observation activity was no longer systematic. In that case, the
view of the risk analysis performed may show that the performance is no longer required.
tion of a DPIA.

For reasons of good practice, an EIPD must be continuously reviewed and re-evaluated.
luada regularly. Therefore, even if on May 25, 2018, a
EIPD, it will be necessary, at the appropriate time, for the data controller to reach
sees such an assessment carried out as part of its general duties of
proactive responsibility.>>.
Consequently, an EIPD must be carried out if it is not available or, in its
case, review the existing one and reevaluate it after the new modifications of the treatments.
Data collected within the scope of the VITROPATH application.

III

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of <<the basic principles
for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the articles
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article
83 of the aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of a maximum of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
higher amount.>>
Article 83.4 a) of the RGPD, indicates: <<Infractions of the following provisions
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 10,000
EUR 000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 2
Maximum % of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year
higher, opting for the highest amount: a) the obligations of the controller and the processor
under articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43>>.

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

IV

<<Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under art.
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether it can,
and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies
established in that Member State>>

Article 58.2. b) and d) of the RGPD indicates the following:

<<Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers
listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation.
glament;
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period>>.

For its part, the Spanish legal system has chosen not to sanction with a fine
public entities, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6 of the
LOPDDGG:

<<1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to
the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.>>

v

In the present case, from the investigations carried out by this Agency,
It follows that SESCAM has violated the principle of confidentiality by allowing
improperly access to the health data of 431 patients by personnel not
authorized. Likewise, it has violated the principle of integrity by not guaranteeing the
security of the health data of 431 patients against loss, destruction or damage
by applying appropriate technical or organizational measures.
There is also no evidence that SESCAM has carried out the appropriate risk analysis and
mandatory impact assessment in accordance with the provisions of article 35 of the
GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CASTILLA LA MANCHA HEALTH SERVICE, with NIF
Q4500146H, for the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 83.5 of the RGPD and 72.1.i) of the LOPDGDD, considered very serious for the purposes of
prescription, a sanction of warning; and articles 32 and 35.3.b) of the aforementioned
RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.4 of the RGPD and article 73, sections d),
e), f) and g) of the LOPDGDD, considered serious for prescription purposes, a sanction
of warning.

SECOND: TO REQUEST the CASTILLA LA MANCHA HEALTH SERVICE to
contribution within six months:

 Risk analysis and impact assessment of treatment operations
of personal data within the scope of the VITROPATH application as
provided in article 35 of the RGPD.

 Audit after the notified security breach that certifies that the
personal data processing operations within the scope of the application
VITROPATH are in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the CASTILLA HEALTH SERVICE
LA MANCHA, with NIF Q4500146H and with address at Avenida Río Guadiana 4,
45071 Toledo.

FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.
 
FIFTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH OF
CASTILLA LA MANCHA, with NIF S1911001D, Plaza Conde 2, 45002, Toledo.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

through the

if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

