1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00198/2019

938-051119

- RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 7, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, motivated by
the processing of data carried out through cameras of a video surveillance system
whose holder is identified as B.B.B. (hereinafter the claimed) installed in
***ADDRESS 1.

The reasons on which the claim is based are "installation of video cameras-

surveillance with presumed orientation towards the complainant's home” (folio nº 1).

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I Photographs) that

They prove the presence of several devices oriented towards the adjoining house.

SECOND: In view of the reported facts, in accordance with the evidence
that is available, the Data Inspection of this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data considers that the treatment of personal data that is carried out by the
denounced through the chambers to which the complaint refers, does not meet the
conditions imposed by the regulations on data protection, for which reason the
opening of this sanctioning procedure.

THIRD: On 02/26/19, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the party
denounced, appearing as notified in the computer system of this body,
without any allegation having been made for the appropriate legal purposes.

FOURTH: On July 11, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 08/12/2019, collaboration is requested from the Security Forces and Corps
State Security, so that by going to the scene of the events they verify the
authorship and other circumstances of the case.

SIXTH: On 11/04/19 the request for collaboration to the Armed Forces and
Security bodies of the locality (National Police Corps), without
no response has been given in this regard.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

FACTS

First. On 02/07/2019, a claim was received from the affected party, through the
which translates as fact the following:

““installation of video-surveillance cameras with presumed orientation towards the

complainant's home” (folio No. 1).

Second. It identifies Mr. B.B.B. as the main person responsible, contributing
photographic proof that proves the installation.

Third. The defendant on 08/09/19 denies the facts, stating that he has no
any connection with them, and not be responsible for any installation.

Fourth. It has not been possible to verify the alleged author, nor the operation of the system
operative.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim of date of entry into
this AEPD (02/07/19) by means of which it transfers as main fact:

“Installation of video-surveillance cameras with presumed orientation towards the

complainant's home” (folio No. 1).

The content of article 5.1 letter c) RGPD is considered affected, which provides:

“Personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

Individuals can install video-surveillance cameras, but they are
responsible that they comply with the regulations in force, avoiding the
capture of private space of third parties without just cause.

On 08/09/2019, this agency received a reply from the respondent,
in relation to the facts subject to transfer, stating that "he does not have authorization
expresses any manipulation, or knowledge of the video-surveillance system
installed (...). That he does not have any ownership of said system either (...)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

“That the claimant is exposed to being denounced through
judicial procedure for FALSENESS and for using personal data of the person
claimed before a state institution.

So the accused denies being responsible for the installation of
any device, nor be responsible for the placement of the camera (s) object of
complaint.

III

It should be noted that this body cannot determine the material author of the
installation of the camera in question, not having received a report to date
some clarification of the extremes object of denunciation.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, it should be noted that the investigations carried out
opportune, the material competence at the time of investigating the facts, is attributed
the National Police Corps (Córdoba), by the location of the dwelling
of the complainant.

It is recalled that the affected party may file the mandatory complaint with the
District Police Station closest to the scene of the events, which must carry out the
opportune investigations, being able to present a claim before the
itself (Complaints Book) or, where appropriate, demand the responsibility that corresponds to the
Ministry of the Interior (General Police Directorate).

The National Police is a body of the State Administration that depends
of the Ministry of the Interior and that must meet a series of quality standards in the
attention to citizens that is reflected in a "Service Charter", regulated by the
Royal Decree 951/2005.

The art. 89 Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following: “The investigating body
will resolve the completion of the procedure, with filing of the proceedings, without it being
formulation of the resolution proposal is necessary, when in the instruction
procedure it becomes clear that any of the following concurs
circumstances:

d) When it does not exist or it has not been possible to identify the person or persons

responsible or appear exempt from responsibility (...)”.

In case of receiving a Report (Act-Complaint) specifying the authorship and the
events that are the subject of the complaint, this body will proceed ex officio to open a new
procedure in order to clarify the facts, purging the responsibilities against
the author of them.

Similarly, the provision of new reliable evidence that allows
specify the author (a) of the facts, I could lead to the opening of a new
procedure, in order to prosecute the legality of the video-surveillance devices
installed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure, as there is no
accredited the presumed person responsible for them.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the denouncing party Ms. A.A.A..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

