• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To:  Utility Guard  Ltd 

Of:  Demar House,  14 Church  Road,  East Wittering, Chichester, 

West Sussex,  England  PO20  8PS 

1. 

The  Information  Commissioner  ("the  Commissioner")  has  decided  to 

issue  Utility  Guard  Ltd  ("UGL")  with  a  monetary  penalty  under  section 

SSA  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998  ("DPA").  The  penalty  is  in  relation 

to a serious contravention  of regulation  21  of the  Privacy and  Electronic 

Communications 

(EC  Directive)  Regulations 

2003 

("PECR"). 

2. 

This  notice explains the Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

UGL,  whose 

registered  office 

is  given  above 

(Companies  House 

Registration  Number:  12701172) is the organisation stated in this notice 

to have  used  a public electronic communications service for the purpose 

of making  unsolicited  calls for the purposes of direct marketing  contrary 

to regulation  21  of PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  21  applies  to  the  making  of  unsolicited  calls  for  direct 

marketing  purposes.  It  means  that  if a  company  wants  to  make  calls 

1 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

promoting  a  product  or  service  to  an  individual  who  has  a  telephone 

number which  is  registered  with  the  Telephone  Preference  Service  Ltd 

("TPS"),  then  that individual  must have  notified  the  company that they 

do  not object to receiving  such  calls from  it. 

5. 

Regulation  21  paragraph  (1)  of PECR  provides that: 

"(1)  A  person  shall  neither  use,  nor  instigate  the  use  of,  a  public 

electronic communications service for the purposes of making unsolicited 

calls for direct marketing purposes  where-

(a) 

the called line is that of a subscriber who  has previously notified 

the caller that such  calls should not for the  time being be made 

on  that line;  or 

(b) 

the number allocated to a subscriber in  respect of the called line 

is  one listed in  the register kept under regulation 26." 

6. 

Regulation  21  paragraphs (2),  (3),  (4)  and  (5)  provide that: 

"(2)  A  subscriber shall not permit his  line  to  be  used in  contravention 

of paragraph (1). 

(3)  A  person  shall not be  held to  have  contravened paragraph  (1)(b) 

where  the  number allocated  to  the  called  line  has  been  listed  on  the 

register for less  than 28 days preceding that on  which  the call is  made. 

(4)  Where  a subscriber who  has caused a  number allocated to a  line of 

his  to  be  listed  in  the  register kept  under regulation  26  has  notified a 

caller  that  he  does  not,  for  the  time  being,  object  to  such  calls  being 

made on  that line  by that caller,  such  calls  may be  made by that caller 

2 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

on  that line,  notwithstanding  that the  number allocated  to  that line  is 

listed in  the said register. 

(5)  Where  a  subscriber  has  given  a  caller  notification  pursuant  to 

paragraph ( 4) in  relation  to a line of his-

(a)  the subscriber shall be free to withdraw that notification at any 

time,  and 

(b)  where such notification is  withdrawn,  the caller shall not make 

such calls on that line." 

7. 

Under regulation  26  of PECR,  the  Commissioner is  required  to  maintain 

a  register  of numbers  allocated  to  subscribers  who  have  notified  them 

that they do  not wish,  for the time  being, to receive  unsolicited  calls for 

direct marketing  purposes  on  those  lines.  The TPS  is  a  limited  company 

which  operates  the  register  on  the  Commissioner's  behalf.  Businesses 

who wish to carry out direct marketing by telephone can  subscribe to the 

TPS  for a  fee  and  receive  from  them  monthly a  list of numbers  on  that 

register. 

8. 

Section  122(5)  of  the  DPA18  defines  direct  marketing  as  "the 

communication 

(by  whatever  means)  of  advertising  material  or 

marketing  material  which  is  directed  to  particular  individuals".  This 

definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) PECR 

&  Schedule  19  paragraphs 430  &  432(6)  DPA18). 

9. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as  "a  living  individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals". 

3 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

10.  A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic communications 

services for the supply of such services". 

11.  Section  SSA  of the DPA  (as applied to PECR cases by Schedule 1 to PECR, 

as  variously amended)  states: 

"(1)  The  Commissioner may serve a  person  with  a  monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is  satisfied that -

(a)  there has been a  serious contravention  of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) 

Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This  subsection applies if the contravention  was  deliberate. 

(3)  This  subsection applies if the person  -

(a) 

knew  or ought to  have  known  that there  was  a  risk  that 

the contravention  would occur,  but 

(b) 

failed 

to 

take 

reasonable  steps 

to  prevent 

the 

contravention. 

12.  The  Commissioner has  issued  statutory guidance  under section  SSC  (1) 

of  the  DPA  about  the  issuing  of  monetary  penalties  that  has  been 

published  on 

the 

ICO's  website.  The  Data  Protection 

(Monetary 

Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty  and  Notices)  Regulations  2010  prescribe 

that the  amount of any  penalty determined  by the  Commissioner must 

not exceed  fS00,000. 

4 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

13.  PECR  were  enacted  to  protect  the  individual's  fundamental  right  to 

privacy 

in 

the  electronic  communications  sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently  amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner  will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' overall 

aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy rights. 

14.  The  provisions  of  the  DPA  remain  in  force  for  the  purposes  of  PECR 

notwithstanding  the  introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20  to the  DPA18. 

Background to the case 

15.  On  8  March  2021,  the  Commissioner  received  information  from  West 

Sussex  Trading  Standards  ("WSTS")  relating  to  an  older  individual 

("complainant l") who had  reportedly been  targeted  over several  weeks 

by various telesales companies to purchase "unnecessary & unrequested 

services".  Complainant  1  had  received  these  unsolicited  calls,  despite 

being  listed  on  the  TPS  register  since  August  1999.  The  complaint  to 

WSTS  was  made by Complainant  l's son-in-law. 

16.  One  of the companies  identified  by the report was  UGL,  which  had  itself 

withdrawn  a  sum  of  money  from  Complainant  l's  bank  account  on  2 

March  2021. 

17.  On  1 June 2021, an  initial letter addressing the Commissioner's concerns 

regarding  UGL's  compliance  with  Regulation  21  of PECR  was  sent to the 

organisation.  The  letter  requested  such  information  as  details  of  the 

source for the data  used  by UGL,  any due diligence checks  it carries  out 

on  such  data,  full  details of the  Calling  Line  Identifiers ("Clls")  used  by 

UGL,  together with  details  of the  number of calls  made  by  UGL  over a 

prescribed  period.  It  also  required  UGL  to  provide  evidence  that 

5 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Complainant  1  in  particular  had  not  objected  (i.e.  had  consented)  to 

receiving  unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  from  UGL. 

18.  This  initial 

letter  was  subsequently  returned  to  the  Commissioner 

unopened  and  on  13  July  2021,  following  consultation  with  Companies 

House,  a further copy  of the  letter was  sent to the  home address  of the 

sole  Company  Director,  Mr Richard  Singh.  This  letter was  signed  for on 

15 July 2021. 

19.  No  response  was  provided,  and  so  the  Commissioner sent a  final  letter 

to  the  Company  Director  at  his  home  address  on  7  September  2021 

seeking  a  response  to  the  Commissioner's  initial  enquiries  by  14 

September 2021.  This  letter was  signed  for on  8  September 2021. 

20.  On  14th  September  2021,  the  Commissioner was  contacted  by  

'  stating that they had  received  instructions to advise UGL in 

connection  with  the  Commissioner's  investigation. 

requested an  extension to respond to the Commissioner's queries, which 

the Commissioner granted, requesting that a response is  provided  by 12 

October 2021. 

21. 

responded  to confirm that it would "reply fully by 22 

October 2021".  This  deadline  passed,  and  on  25  October  2021 -

wrote  again  to say that it would  reply  by  28  October 2021. 

This deadline also  lapsed  with  no substantive responses  being  provided, 

and  on  10  November  2021 

contacted 

the 

Commissioner  by  voicemail  to  say  that the  response  "will definitely  be 

with  you  by close  on  play on  Friday  this  week  [12  November 2021] at 

the  very latest".  This  deadline  passed  without any further contact being 

received  from 

6 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

22.  During  the  investigation,  whilst  attempting  to  liaise  with  UGL/-

'  the  Commissioner had  sought to  investigate  whether  any 

complaints  had  been  lodged  with  the TPS  which  could  be  linked  to  UGL. 

One  such  complaint was  identified,  naming "Utility Guard  Insurance" as 

the  caller  on  13  November  2020,  using  the  CLI:  01243  217  441 

("Complainant 2"). 

23.  On  11  August 2021,  a Third-Party Information  Notice  ("3PIN")  was  sent 

to 

( ' ' - " )  as the Communications 

Service  Provider  ("CSP")  for  this  CLI.  The  Commissioner  sought  the 

identity  of  the  subscriber  for  the  CLI  between  29  June  2020  and  11 

August  2021,  together  with  details  of any  other  Clls  allocated  to  that 

subscriber,  and  copies  of  the  Call  Detail  Records  ("CDRs")  detailing 

outbound  calls from  those  Clls. 

24. 

In  response,  on  17  August  2021, -

confirmed  that the  cited  CLI 

was  allocated  to  a  "reseller": 

.  The  reseller  had 

provided -w i th  details of the "end  user" of that CLI,  but advised 

the Commissioner that it did not have access to any other number ranges 

(i.e.  CLis)  which  that reseller might also  have  sold  to the  end  user.  The 

end  user of 01243  217 441  was  identified as  Mr Richard  Singh. 

25.  On  17  August  2021,  the  Commissioner  sent  a  3PIN  to 

-

requesting  the  identity  of  the  subscriber  for  the  cited  CLI 

between  29 June  2020 and  17 August 2021, together with  details of any 

other Clls allocated to that subscriber,  and  copies  of the CDRs  detailing 

outbound calls from those Clls. 

responded later that 

day to provide the CDRs  for the cited  CLI  via  a series  of spreadsheets. 

26.  On  18 August 2021 

provided  further information to 

say that the "retail provider" for the cited  CLI  was 

7 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

confirmed  that:  "we hold no  documentation  on  our 

side,  any held or signed documentation  would  be  in  the  possession  on 

".  However, 

the  screenshot  which  accompanied 

the 

response  providing  details  of the  end  user did  name  UGL,  and  included 

UGL's  registered  office  address,  email  address,  phone  number  and 

details  of  Mr  Richard  Singh.  The  response  also  provided  details  of  a 

second  CLI  associated  with  UGL:  01243  217 440. 

27.  On  19  August  2021,  the  Commissioner  sent  a  3PIN  to 

-

requesting  the  identity  of the  subscriber for the  two  cited  Clls 

(01243  217  441  and  01243  217  440)  between  29  June  2020  and  19 

August  2021,  together  with  details  of  any  other  Clls  allocated  to  that 

subscriber,  and  copies  of the  CDRs  detailing  outbound  calls  from  those 

Clls. 

28. 

In  response,  on  23  August  2021, 

confirmed  that 

the  end  user  and  current  subscriber  for  the  two  cited  Clls  was:  "Mr 

Richard Singh, Utility Guard Limited, 

".  A copy of the Service Agreement signed 

by  Mr  Richard  Singh  and  dated  29  July  2020  was  also  provided.  The 

response  and  Service  Agreement  confirmed  that  there  were  ten  Clls 

allocated  to  UGL  which  ranged  from  01243  217  440  to  01243  217  449 

(inclusive), and that these had  been  allocated to UGL since  30 July 2020 

until  the  present  day.  In  subsequent  correspondence  on  7  September 

2021, 

confirmed  that  only  one  of  the  ten  Clls 

(01243  217 441)  appeared  to have  been  used,  and  to be  in  active  use. 

29.  From  analysing  the  CDRs  for  01243  217  441  which  had  been  provided 

by 

on  17 August 2021, the Commissioner has  been 

able  to  determine that  between  04  August  2020  to  28  July  2021  there 

were: 

8 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

a.  2,490  outbound  calls  which  connected  to  a  subscriber for  one 

second  or more; 

b.  1,932 of those  2,490  outbound  calls  were  made to subscribers 

who  had  been  registered  with  the TPS  for a  period  of not  less 

than  28  days. 

c.  The  1,932  calls  were  made  to  a  total  of  1,248  unique  'Called 

Line Identifiers', which  indicates that some subscribers received 

more than  one  phone call. 

30.  The  Commissioner  conducted  open-source  research  on  UGL's  website, 

noting that its Terms & Conditions contain  a section  headed "Contract of 

Services".  Under this heading  it materially states: 

"This plan is not categorised as an insurance product and therefore 

insurance  regulation  does  not  apply.  This  plan  is  a  contract  of 

services ... " 

31.  Under the heading "Using Your Information" it materially states: 

"Utility  Guard  is  the  "data  controller"  of your  information.  We 

process two sets of information about you,  "Personal Information" 

(your  name,  address,  contact  and  payment  details)  and  the 

"Goods  Information" ...  We'll  use  your  information:  [. .. ]  for  our 

legitimate interests in: undertaking marketing (about our products 

and  services  and  those  of  our  third  party  partners)  by  post, 

telephone,  email  and/or  other  electronic  messaging  services; 

... recording your conversations for training, quality and compliance 

9 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

purposes;  and for analytics and profiling for marketing purposes; 

[. .. ]" 

32.  Under "Keeping Your Information" it states: 

"We  keep  your  Personal  Information  for  six  years  after  you 

terminate  your policy so  that  we  can  deal  with  any claims.  Your 

goods information  we  keep for a bit longer,  normally 10 years (the 

average  life  of an  appliance)  for health  and safety.  We  also  keep 

your  information  to  send  you  marketing  that  you  might  be 

interested  in  unless  we  receive  a  request from  you  to  opt-out of 

marketing." 

33.  Under "Marketing" it materially states: 

"We,  along  with  other  members  of  our  Group  may  use  your 

information to tell you about any offers, products or services which 

may be of interest to you.  We  may contact you by post,  telephone, 

email and/or other electronic messaging services.  To  change your 

marketing 

preference, 

let 

us 

know 

by 

emailing 

admin@utilityguard.co. uk  or  by  writing  to  us  using  the  contact 

details provided in  the  'customer service details' section above". 

34.  On  11 January 2022,  having  been  yet to receive  a substantive response 

to his  initial  investigation  correspondence first sent on  1 June  2021, the 

Commissioner  sent  a  further  email  to 

as  UGL's 

representatives.  In  this  email  the  Commissioner  specifically  requested 

evidence  that the TPS-registered  subscribers  which  UGL  had  called  had 

provided  notification  to  UGL  that they  did  not object to  receiving  direct 

marketing calls from  them. 

10 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

35.  On  7  February  2022 

responded 

to 

the 

Commissioner's  correspondence,  with  the  notable  comments  from  that 

correspondence  being: 

a.  UGL is  a small  business that offers and  fulfils "service contracts 

for household appliances, particularly televisions". 

b.  "On or about 25 January 2021  UGL  telephoned [Complainant 1] 

to  enquire whether he had any televisions  which  he would wish 

to protect by a service contract.  [. .. ]  At that time  UGL  were not 

aware  that  his  number  was  on  the  TPS  list  and  must accept 

that,  therefore,  on  that  occasion  their  due  diligence  was  not 

sufficient". 

c.  UGL  claims  that it was  not aware  of Complainant  l's dementia 

diagnosis  until  informed  by  the  Commissioner  on  02  February 

2022. 

d.  On  or about 11  March  2021, the payment of £150 was returned 

to Complainant  1. 

e.  UGL "regrets" calling the subscriber who complained to the TPS 

on  13  November 2020  (i.e.  Complainant 2). 

f.  UGL did  not use  and  had "no affiliation  with any other telesales 

companies." 

g.  UGL  purchased  data  only  from  "bona  fide  sources  such  as. 

11 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

h.  UGL  states that it screens  calls  against the TPS  and  has  a  DNC 

(Do  Not Call)  list. 

i.  UGL  "accepts  that  on  two  isolated  occasions  [i.e. 

the  two 

complaints  which  the  ICO  had drawn  to  its  attention] it would 

appear that consumers  whose  details  were  registered  with  the 

TPS have been contacted by telephone".  However, the breaches 

were "completely out of character". 

36.  From  this  response,  the  Commissioner  notes  that  no  copies  of  any 

purchase  orders  or contracts  with  UGL's  data  providers  were  provided, 

despite being  requested. 

37.  Despite the claim that it screens data against the TPS  register,  enquiries 

made  by  the  Commissioner with  the  TPS  during  the  investigation  on  8 

February  2022  show  that  UGL  do  not  hold  a  TPS  licence  and  have  not 

downloaded the TPS  register at any time. There  is  also  no evidence that 

UGL  engaged  a  third-party  to  specifically  carry  out this  exercise  on  its 

behalf. 

38.  Regarding  the  refund  of £150.00  to  Complainant  1,  UGL  provided  with 

its response  a copy of a 'Merchant Dispute Advice' letter dated  11  March 

2021  which  indicated  that Complainant  1  (or his  son-in-law)  had  raised 

a dispute with 

' Dispute Resolution  Department 

following  UGL's  unsolicited  direct  marketing  call,  and  that  accordingly 

the  amount  of  £150.00  would  be  debited  from  UGL's  account  and 

returned  to Complainant  1.  The  letter shows that UGL  checked  a box on 

this  letter  which  said,  "Please  check  here  if  you  disagree  with  the 

cardholders claim and are providing a  rebuttal". 

12 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

39.  UGL appears in  its letter to concede that, for the two complaints brought 

to  its  attention,  the  individuals  were  called  whilst  on  the  TPS  register, 

but  claims  that  these  were  "isolated  incidents".  However,  at  no  point 

during  the  investigation  has  UGL  supplied  evidence  that  it  had  been 

provided  with  valid  notification 

from  any  of  the  TPS-registered 

subscribers,  for the  1,932 calls  which  it made  between  04 August 2020 

to 28 July 2021, that they did  not object to receiving  its direct marketing 

calls. 

40.  On  11 January 2022 and  20 January 2022 the Commissioner also liaised 

with  "trueCall",  an  organisation  which  provides  a  call-blocking  system 

allowing  call  recipients  to  block  unwelcome  callers  and  which  asks 

unrecognised  callers to  identify themselves  before  it puts them  through 

to the  recipient.  These  enquiries discovered  that  19 calls  were  made  by 

UGL  via  its  CLI  01234317441  to  13  trueCall  customers between  29 

September  2020  and  3  May  2021.  All  13  of  these  customers  were 

designated 'vulnerable' by trueCall,  and  were TPS-registered. 

41.  For 10 of the 19 calls,  UGL received the trueCall "Shield" announcement. 

The  Shield  announcement states: 

"If you  are  a  friend,  family  or invited  caller please  press  <2>,  if 
you are a cold caller please hang up and don't call us again". 

42.  On  8  of the  10  occasions,  having  heard  the  Shield  announcement,  UGL 

chose to ignore the request and  be  put through to trueCall  user. 

43.  Taking  account  of  the  service  provided  by  UGL,  the  Commissioner  is 

satisfied  that the  1,932 connected  calls  made  by UGL  to TPS-registered 

subscribers,  as  described  at  Paragraph  29(b)  of  this  Notice,  were  all 

13 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

made for the purposes of direct marketing  as  defined  by section  122(5) 

DPA18. 

44.  The  Commissioner  has  made  the  above 

findings  of  fact  on 

the 

balance  of probabilities. 

45.  The  Commissioner  has  considered  whether  those  facts  constitute  a 

contravention  of regulation  21  of PECR  by  UGL  and,  if so,  whether the 

conditions of section  SSA  DPA  are  satisfied. 

The contravention 

46.  The  Commissioner finds that UGL  contravened  regulation  21  of PECR. 

47.  The  Commissioner finds that the contravention  was  as  follows: 

48.  Between  4  August  2020  and  28  July  2021,  UGL  used  a  public 

telecommunications service for the purposes of making 1,932 unsolicited 

calls  for  direct  marketing  purposes  to  subscribers  where  the  number 

allocated  to  the  subscriber  in  respect  of the  called  line  was  a  number 

listed  on 

the  register  of  numbers  kept  by  the  Commissioner  in 

accordance  with  regulation  26,  contrary to regulation  2l(l)(b) of PECR. 

This  resulted  in  a  complaint  to  the  WSTS  which  was  subsequently 

referred  to the Commissioner,  and  a complaint to the TPS. 

49.  The Commissioner is  also satisfied for the purposes of regulation  21  that 

these  1,932 unsolicited  direct marketing  calls were  made to subscribers 

who  had  registered  with  the TPS  at least  28  days  prior to  receiving  the 

calls,  and  who for the purposes of regulation  21( 4)  had  not notified  UGL 

that they did  not object to receiving  such  calls. 

14 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

50.  For  such  notification  to  be  valid  under  regulation  21(4),  the  individual 

must  have  taken  a  clear  and  positive  action  to  override  their  TPS 

registration and  indicate their willingness to receive marketing calls from 

the company. The notification should reflect the individual's choice about 

whether  or  not  they  are  willing  to  receive  marketing  calls.  Therefore, 

where signing up to use a product or service is conditional upon receiving 

marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate how this constitutes 

a clear and  positive  notification  of the  individual's willingness to  receive 

such  calls. 

51.  The  notification  must  clearly  indicate  the  individual's  willingness  to 

receive marketing calls specifically. Companies cannot rely on  individuals 

opting  in  to  marketing  communications  generally,  unless  it is  clear that 

this will  include telephone calls. 

52.  Further, the notification must demonstrate the individual's willingness to 

receive  marketing  calls  from  that company specifically.  Notifications will 

not be  valid  for the purposes of regulation  21( 4)  if individuals are  asked 

to  agree  to  receive  marketing  calls 

from  "similar  organisations", 

"partners", "selected third  parties" or other similar generic descriptions. 

53.  The  Commissioner would  note  that the  sole  response  provided  by  UGL 

to  his  enquiries  is  general  in  its  content,  and  fails  to  provide  specific 

answers  to  the  28  questions  asked.  The  Commissioner  has  therefore 

been  required  to  conduct  enquiries  with  UGL's  CSP  to  determine  the 

extent of its direct marketing activity. 

54.  UGL has advised the Commissioner that it purchases the data for its calls 

from third-party data providers. It gave a single example, UK Datahouse, 

but  has  not  provided  any  copies  of  contracts  or  purchase  orders 

regarding the data it acquires.  It is  not clear whether UGL contracts with 

15 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

other third-party data  providers as  no  such  details  have  been  provided, 

despite the Commissioner's request. 

55.  UGL  has  failed  to  provide  any evidence  that the  data  it purchased  from 

its  third-party  data  provider(s)  had  provided  valid  notification 

in 

accordance with regulation  21(4) to be  contacted  by UGL,  or that it even 

sought assurances  of such  notification. 

56.  UGL  has  claimed  that it "checks  data  against the  TPS  list",  however no 

further  details  have  been  provided  as  to  the  frequency  and  extent  of 

those  purported  checks.  Furthermore,  the  Commissioner  has  evidence 

obtained  from  the  TPS  directly  that  UGL  in  fact  does  not  hold  a  TPS 

licence,  and  has  not  previously  conducted  any  checks  against  the  TPS 

register. 

57.  There  is  no  evidence  that  UGL  contracts  a  third-party  to  conduct  TPS 

checks  on  its  behalf,  nor  is  there  any  evidence  to  suggest  that  UGL 

contractually requires  its third-party data  providers to  provide  evidence 

of such  checks  being  conducted  prior to it purchasing  data. 

58.  Despite  being  asked  to  do  so,  UGL  has  failed  to  provide  copies  of any 

policies/procedures regarding  its responsibilities  under PECR. 

59.  For  the  reasons  above,  the  Commissioner  is  satisfied  that  UGL  did  not 

hold  valid  notification  to  engage  in  the  1,932  direct  marketing  calls  to 

TPS-registered  subscribers. 

60.  The Commissioner has gone on  to consider whether the conditions under 

section  SSA  DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

16 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

61.  The  Commissioner 

is  satisfied 

that 

the  contravention 

identified 

above was serious. This is because there have been  multiple breaches of 

regulation  21  by  UGL  arising  from  the  organisation's  activities  between 

4 August 2020 and  28 July 2021, and  this led  to  1,932 unsolicited  direct 

marketing calls  being  made to subscribers who were  registered  with the 

TPS  and  who had  not notified  UGL that they were willing to receive  such 

calls. 

62.  The  Commissioner is  concerned  by the lack of engagement from  UGL at 

the  outset  of  the  investigation  and  throughout,  the  lack  of  evidence 

relating  to any form  of internal  policy or procedure  regarding  PECR  and 

the  DPA,  the  apparent  lack  of  any  contractual  arrangements  with  its 

third-party  data  provider(s),  the  lack  of  evidence  of any  checks  being 

conducted  by UGL to ensure the protection  of individuals' privacy rights, 

and  the  number  of  calls  made  to  TPS  registered  individuals.  The 

Commissioner takes the view that these failings all  point to an  ignorance 

or systemic disregard  of the regulations and  the  Regulator by UGL. 

63.  The  Commissioner 

is 

therefore  satisfied 

that  condition 

(a) 

from 

section  SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

64.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether the  contravention  identified 

above was deliberate. In the Commissioner's view, this means that UGL's 

actions  which  constituted  that  contravention  were  deliberate  actions 

( even  if UGL  did  not actually intend thereby to contravene  PECR). 

65.  The  Commissioner  considers  that  in  this  case  UGL  did  deliberately 

contravene regulation 21  of PECR.  The failure of UGL to provide evidence 

17 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

of  any  contractual  arrangements  with  its  third-party  data  providers 

which  sought to ensure the  protection  of individuals' privacy rights,  and 

the  failure  to  provide  evidence  of  UGL  conducting  its  own  TPS  checks 

suggests  that no  such  checks  were  in  fact  conducted  and  this  indicates 

a wilful  disregard  of the  law,  and  represents  a deliberate  act seeking  to 

circumvent the legislation. 

66.  For  the  above  reasons,  the  Commissioner  is  satisfied  that  this  breach 

was  deliberate. 

67.  Further and in the alternative, the Commissioner has gone on  to consider 

whether 

the  contravention 

identified  above  was  negligent.  This 

consideration  comprises two elements: 

68.  Firstly,  he  has  considered  whether  UGL  knew  or  ought  reasonably  to 

have  known  that there  was  a  risk  that this  contravention  would  occur. 

He  is  satisfied that this condition  is  met, for the following  reasons: 

69.  The  Commissioner  has  published  detailed  guidance  for  companies 

carrying  out marketing  explaining  their legal  requirements  under PECR. 

This guidance explains the circumstances under which  organisations are 

able  to  carry  out marketing  over the  phone,  by text,  by  email,  by  post 

or by fax.  Specifically,  it states that live  calls  must not be  made to  any 

subscriber registered with the TPS,  unless the subscriber has specifically 

notified the  company that they do  not object to  receiving  such  calls.  In 

case  organisations remain  unclear on  their obligations, the ICO operates 

a  telephone  helpline.  ICO  communications  about  previous  enforcement 

action  where  businesses  have  not  complied  with  PECR  are  also  readily 

available. 

18 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

70. 

It is  therefore  reasonable  to suppose  that UGL  should  have  been  aware 

of its responsibilities in  this area. 

71.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on  to consider whether UGL failed 

to  take  reasonable  steps  to  prevent  the  contravention.  Again,  he  is 

satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

72.  The  Commissioner's  direct  marketing  guidance  makes  clear  that 

organisations  acquiring  marketing 

lists 

from  a 

third  party  must 

undertake  rigorous  checks  to  satisfy themselves that the  personal  data 

was obtained fairly and  lawfully, that their details would be  passed  along 

for direct marketing to the specifically named organisation  in  the case  of 

live calls,  and that they have the necessary notifications for the purposes 

of regulation  21(4).  It is  not acceptable  to  rely  on  assurances  given  by 

third  party suppliers without undertaking  proper due  diligence.  UGL  has 

provided  no evidence that any due diligence at all  was carried  out on  the 

data  which  it obtained,  or  on  the  organisation[s]  that  it was  obtaining 

the data from.  It has  provided  no  evidence  of any contracts or purchase 

orders  which  might  have  provided  assurances  that  the  data  it  was 

purchasing  could  be  lawfully contacted.  There  is  also  no  evidence  that 

UGL sought to carry out even  basic TPS  checks to ensure that individuals 

who  did  not wish  to  receive  unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  would  not 

be  contacted.  Rather,  UGL  appears  to  have  contacted  subscribers 

indiscriminately,  and  in  some  instances  on  multiple  occasions,  without 

any regard  for their privacy rights. 

73.  Reasonable  steps  in 

these  circumstances  may  also  have 

included 

conducting  thorough  TPS  checks  on  all  of the  data  it was  to  use  for its 

direct marketing campaign,  or at least obtaining  and  recording  evidence 

of notification from those TPS-registered  individuals whom  it intended to 

contact prior to engaging  in  its direct marketing calls. 

19 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

74.  Whilst  UGL  claimed  in  its  sole  response  during  the  investigation  of  4 

February 2022 to "[follow] the Commissioner's guidance on PECR",  given 

the  absence  of evidence  of any  precautionary  checks  on  UGL's  behalf, 

this is  clearly not the case. 

75.  Given  the  volume  of  unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls  received  by 

subscribers,  it  is  clear  that  UGL  failed  to  take  those,  or  indeed  any, 

reasonable  steps. 

76.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (b)  from  section 

SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 

77.  Taking  into  account  the  volume  of  unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls 

made 

in  contravention  of 

the 

legislation, 

the  duration  of 

the 

contravention,  and  the  deliberate  nature  of  the  contravention,  when 

examined  against  comparator cases  the  Commissioner has  determined 

that an  appropriate  starting  point for the  penalty in  this  case  should  be 

£10,000. 

78.  The  Commissioner  has  gone  on  to  take  into  account  the  following 

aggravating features of this case: 

•  The  Commissioner's  investigation  has  evidenced  at  least  one 

vulnerable  elderly  individual  with  dementia  who  was  financially 

impacted  and  in  receipt  of  several  unwanted  and  non-compliant 

nuisance calls. The trueCall data supports the Commissioner's view 

that  vulnerable  people,  who  were  particularly  at  risk  of  such 

unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls,  were  affected  despite  their 

20 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

numbers  being  TPS  registered.  The  Commissioner  noted  calls 

made  to  one  user (who  was  classified  as  being  vulnerable)  had  a 

trueCall  unit  installed  at  the  request  of  Trading  Standards 

Scotland. 

•  UGL  failed  to  engage,  and  cooperate,  with  the  Commissioner's 

investigation  in  a  meaningful  and  efficient  way,  with  several 

requests  for  extensions  and  failures  to  honour  such  extensions. 

Indeed, the Commissioner's initial  correspondence  of 1 June  2021 

did  not receive  a formal  response  until  7  February 2022,  resulting 

in  the  Commissioner  having  to  seek  evidence  from  third  party 

sources. The Commissioner also notes UGL's failure to provide any 

documentation  related to policies,  procedures,  or training,  despite 

numerous requests. 

79. 

In  light  of  these  aggravating  features,  the  Commissioner  proposes  to 

increase the penalty to £20,000. 

80.  The  Commissioner  does  not  consider  there  to  be  any  mitigating 

features in  this case. 

81.  For the  reasons  explained  above,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that the 

conditions from  section  SSA  (1)  DPA  have  been  met in  this case.  He  is 

also  satisfied  that the procedural  rights under section  SSB  have  been 

complied  with. 

82.  The  latter has  included the issuing  of a  Notice of Intent, in  which  the 

Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking.  In  reaching  his final 

view, the  Commissioner has taken  into account the  representations 

made by UGL on  this matter on  20  July 2022. 

21 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

83.  The  Commissioner is  accordingly entitled to issue  a monetary penalty in 

this case 

84.  The  Commissioner  has  attempted  to  consider  the  likely  impact  of  a 

monetary penalty on  UGL but has  been  unable to do so  given the lack of 

recent  publicly  available  information.  UGL  was  invited  in  the  course  of 

providing  its representations to supply updated  financial  information  for 

the  company  and  evidence  of  any  financial  hardship  which  would  be 

suffered  in  the  event  of a  penalty,  however it  has  failed  to  do  so.  The 

Commissioner  also  notes  that  following  receipt  of  the  Commissioner's 

Notice  of  Intent,  on  20  July  2022,  UGL  has  made  an  application  to 

Companies  House  to  be  struck  off  the  register.  The  Commissioner 

considers  in  the  circumstances  that  a  penalty  remains  the  appropriate 

course  of action. 

85.  The  Commissioner's  underlying  objective 

in 

imposing  a  monetary 

penalty  notice  is  to  promote  compliance  with  PECR.  The  making  of 

unsolicited direct marketing calls is a matter of significant public concern. 

A monetary penalty in  this case  should  act as  a general  encouragement 

towards compliance with the law,  or at least as  a deterrent against non 

compliance,  on  the  part  of  all  persons  running  businesses  currently 

engaging  in  these  practices.  This  is  an  opportunity to reinforce the need 

for businesses to ensure  that they are  only telephoning  consumers who 

are  not registered  with  the TPS  and/or specifically  indicate that they do 

not object to receiving these calls. 

86. 

In  making  his  decision, the Commissioner has  had  regard  to the factors 

set out in  s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015;  including:  the nature 

and  level  of risks  associated  with  non-compliance,  including  the  risks  to 

economic growth;  the  willingness  and  ability of the  business to address 

non-compliance;  the  likely  impact  of the  proposed  intervention  on  the 

22 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

business, and the likely impact of the proposed intervention on  the wider 

business  community,  both  in  terms  of  deterring  non-compliance  and 

economic benefits to legitimate businesses. 

87.  For  these  reasons,  the  Commissioner  has  decided  to  issue  a  monetary 

penalty in  this case. 

The amount of the penalty 

88.  Taking  into account all  of the above, the Commissioner has decided that 

a  penalty  in  the  sum  of  £20,000  (twenty  thousand  pounds)  is 

reasonable  and  proportionate  given  the  particular facts  of the  case  and 

the underlying  objective  in  imposing the penalty. 

Conclusion 

89.  The  monetary  penalty  must  be  paid  to  the  Commissioner's  office  by 

BACS transfer or cheque by 5 January 2023 at the latest. The monetary 

penalty  is  not  kept  by  the  Commissioner  but  will  be  paid  into  the 

Consolidated  Fund  which  is  the  Government's  general  bank  account  at 

the  Bank of England. 

90. 

If the Commissioner receives full  payment of the monetary penalty by 4 

January  2023 the  Commissioner will  reduce  the  monetary  penalty  by 

20%  to  £16,000  (sixteen  thousand  pounds).  However,  you  should 

be  aware  that the  early  payment discount is  not available  if you  decide 

to exercise your right of appeal. 

91.  There  is  a  right of appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 

against: 

23 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

(a) the imposition  of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b)  the  amount  of  the  penalty  specified 

in  the  monetary  penalty 

notice. 

92.  Any  notice  of appeal  should  be  received  by the Tribunal  within  28  days 

of the date of this  monetary penalty notice. 

93. 

Information  about appeals  is  set out in  Annex  1. 

94.  The  Commissioner  will  not  take  action  to  enforce  a  monetary  penalty 

unless: 

• 

the  period  specified  within  the  notice  within  which  a  monetary 

penalty  must be  paid  has  expired  and  all  or any  of the  monetary 

penalty has not been  paid; 

•  all  relevant  appeals  against the  monetary  penalty  notice  and  any 

variation  of it have  either been  decided  or withdrawn;  and 

• 

the  period  for  appealing  against  the  monetary  penalty  and  any 

variation  of it has expired. 

95. 

In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland,  the  monetary  penalty  is 

recoverable by Order of the County Court or the High  Court. In Scotland, 

the monetary penalty can  be  enforced  in the same manner as an  extract 

registered  decree  arbitral  bearing  a  warrant for execution  issued  by the 

sheriff court of any sheriffdom  in  Scotland. 

24 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Dated  the  28th  day of November 2022. 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

25 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  55B(S)  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 gives any person 

upon  whom  a monetary penalty notice  has  been  served  a right of 

appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the 

'Tribunal')  against the notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the notice against which  the  appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance with the law;  or 

b) 

to the  extent that the notice  involved  an  exercise  of 

discretion  by the Commissioner, that he  ought to have exercised 

his discretion  differently, 

the Tribunal  will  allow the appeal  or substitute such  other 

decision  as  could  have been  made by the Commissioner.  In  any 

other case  the Tribunal  will  dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring  an  appeal  by serving  a notice of appeal  on  the 

Tribunal  at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

26 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Telephone:  0300  123 4504 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The  notice of appeal  should  be  sent so  it is  received  by the 

Tribunal  within  28  days of the date of the notice. 

b) 

If your notice  of appeal  is  late the Tribunal  will  not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has extended the time for complying  with this 

rule. 

4. 

The  notice of appeal  should  state:-

a) 

your name and  address/name and  address  of your 

representative  (if any); 

b) 

an  address where documents may be  sent or delivered to 

you; 

c) 

the name and  address  of the Information Commissioner; 

d) 

details of the decision  to which  the proceedings relate; 

e) 

the result that you  are  seeking; 

f) 

the grounds on  which  you  rely; 

g) 

you  must provide with the notice  of appeal  a copy of the 

monetary penalty notice or variation  notice; 

h) 

if you  have exceeded  the time  limit mentioned  above the 

notice of appeal  must include a request for an  extension  of time 

27 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

and  the  reason  why the notice of appeal  was  not provided  in 

time. 

5. 

Before  deciding  whether or not to appeal  you  may wish  to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser.  At the hearing  of an  appeal  a 

party may conduct his  case  himself or may be  represented  by 

any person  whom  he  may appoint for that purpose. 

6. 

The  statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier 

Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  are contained  in  section  55B(S)  of, 

and  Schedule 6  to, the  Data  Protection  Act  1998, and Tribunal 

Procedure  (First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber) 

Rules  2009  (Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

28 

