1/5  
  
File No.: EXP202309214  
RESOLUTION OF RIGHTS PROCEDURE  
After carrying out the procedural actions provided for in Title VIII of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the following FACTS have been established:  

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) exercised the right of Erasure against BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. (hereinafter, the respondent). According to the claimant, the right has not been addressed.  

SECOND: In accordance with Article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the claim was forwarded to the respondent for analysis and to inform this Agency within one month of the actions taken to comply with the requirements set forth in data protection regulations.  

THIRD: The result of the transfer procedure indicated in the previous Fact did not allow for the understanding that the claims of the claimant were satisfied. Consequently, on August 5, 2023, for the purposes provided for in Article 64.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data agreed to admit the claim for processing.  
The aforementioned agreement granted the respondent a hearing, so that within ten working days, it could present any arguments it deemed appropriate.  
The respondent, in the arguments presented after the admission for processing, referred us to the documentation already sent to the claimant, denying the claim with justification.  
In one of the communications sent by the respondent to the claimant, it was communicated as follows:  
“The subject of your claim, as stated in your communication, is your disagreement with the debts for which payment is being requested from BBVA, as you state in your writing that they are contradictory and not true or are time-barred, currently expired, or paid. Because at BBVA our goal is transparency with our clients, after carefully reviewing the facts you describe, we inform you that attached to this letter we are sending you a copy of the contracts of the debts currently in force at BBVA, as well as a document detailing and breaking down the same as of the current date. These amounts are therefore claimable by BBVA and currently pending payment.”  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es  

2/5  
FOURTH: After examining the document submitted by the respondent, it is forwarded to the claimant so that, within ten working days, they may formulate any arguments they consider appropriate. The claimant has not submitted any arguments.  

LEGAL GROUNDS  
I  
Competence  
In accordance with the powers granted to each supervisory authority by Article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and as established in Articles 47, 48.1, and 64.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.  
Furthermore, Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD states that: “The procedures processed by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data shall be governed by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, by this organic law, by the regulatory provisions issued in its development, and, in so far as they do not contradict them, subsidiarily by the general rules on administrative procedures.”  

II  
Preliminary Issues  
In accordance with the provisions of Article 55 of the GDPR, the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data is competent to perform the functions assigned to it in Article 57, including the enforcement of the Regulation and promoting awareness among data controllers and processors regarding their obligations, as well as addressing claims submitted by a data subject and investigating, as appropriate, the reasons for such claims.  
Correspondingly, Article 31 of the GDPR establishes the obligation of data controllers and processors to cooperate with the supervisory authority that requests it in the performance of its functions. In cases where they have appointed a data protection officer, Article 39 of the GDPR assigns this function to cooperate with that authority.  
In accordance with this regulation, following the procedure provided for in Article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD, prior to the admission of the claim for the exercise of the rights regulated in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR, which gives rise to this procedure, it was forwarded to the respondent for analysis, to respond to this Agency within one month, and to demonstrate that it had provided the claimant with the appropriate response.  
The result of this transfer did not allow for the understanding that the claims of the claimant were satisfied. Consequently, on August 5, 2023, for the purposes...  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es
3/5  
As provided in Articles 64.1 and 65 of the LOPDGDD, the complaint submitted was admitted for processing. This admission for processing determines the initiation of the present procedure regarding the lack of attention to a request for the exercise of the rights established in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR, regulated by Article 64.1 of the LOPDGDD, which states:  
“When the procedure refers exclusively to the lack of attention to a request for the exercise of the rights established in Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, it will be initiated by an admission agreement, which will be adopted in accordance with the provisions of Article 65 of this organic law.  
In this case, the deadline for resolving the procedure will be six months from the date on which the agreement of admission for processing was notified to the complainant. Once this period has elapsed, the interested party may consider their complaint accepted.”  
Article 58.2 of the GDPR grants the Spanish Data Protection Agency a series of corrective powers to rectify any infringement of the GDPR, including “ordering the data controller or processor to address the requests for the exercise of the rights of the data subject under this Regulation.”  

III  
Rights of Individuals Regarding Personal Data Protection  
The rights of individuals regarding personal data protection are regulated in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and Articles 13 to 18 of the LOPDGDD. The rights of access, rectification, erasure, objection, the right to restriction of processing, and the right to data portability are contemplated.  
The formal aspects related to the exercise of these rights are established in Articles 12 of the GDPR and 12 of the LOPDGDD.  
Additionally, the provisions expressed in Recitals 59 and following of the GDPR are taken into account.  
In accordance with the provisions of these regulations, the data controller must establish formulas and mechanisms to facilitate the exercise of rights by the data subject, which will be free of charge (without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 12.5 and 15.3 of the GDPR), and is obliged to respond to requests made no later than one month, unless it can demonstrate that it is unable to identify the data subject, and must express its reasons in case it does not intend to address such request. The burden of proof for compliance with the obligation to respond to the request for the exercise of rights made by the affected party lies with the data controller.  
The communication addressed to the data subject regarding their request must be expressed in a concise, transparent, intelligible, and easily accessible manner, using clear and simple language.  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es  

4/5  
IV  
Right to Erasure  
Article 17 of the GDPR, which regulates the right to erasure of personal data, establishes the following:  
"1. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the data controller the erasure of personal data concerning them without undue delay, and the data controller shall be obliged to erase personal data without undue delay when one of the following circumstances applies:  
a) the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which they were collected or otherwise processed;  
b) the data subject withdraws consent on which the processing is based according to Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)(a), and where there is no other legal ground for the processing;  
c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1), and there are no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(2);  
d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed;  
e) the personal data must be erased for compliance with a legal obligation in Union or Member State law to which the data controller is subject;  
f) the personal data have been collected in relation to the offer of information society services referred to in Article 8(1).  
2. When the data controller has made the personal data public and is obliged, under paragraph 1, to erase such data, the data controller, taking into account the available technology and the cost of implementation, shall take reasonable steps, including technical measures, to inform data controllers who are processing the personal data of the data subject's request for erasure of any links to, or copies or replications of, those personal data.  
3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the extent that the processing is necessary:  
a) for exercising the right of freedom of expression and information;  
b) for compliance with a legal obligation which requires processing by Union or Member State law to which the data controller is subject, or for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller;  
c) for reasons of public interest in the area of public health in accordance with Article 9(2)(h) and (i), and paragraph 3;  
d) for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1), insofar as the right referred to in paragraph 1 is likely to render impossible or seriously impair the achievement of the objectives of that processing, or  
e) for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims."  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es
5/5  
V  
Conclusion  
The claimant requests the right to erasure. He maintains or has maintained a business relationship with a number of entities that claim debts from him and requests that his data be erased.  
This claim will only be resolved regarding BBVA SA, and after analyzing the documentation presented by both parties, we conclude that the right has been duly denied from the outset. The responding party has stated in the letters sent to the claimant that as long as there is an outstanding debt, the data cannot be erased.  
Regarding the veracity of the debt or debts, it is other entities that must pronounce on this matter, as this task does not fall within the functions of this Agency.  
Based on the above, considering that the purpose of this procedure is to ensure that the guarantees and rights of the affected parties are duly restored, and given that the right to erasure has been addressed by a motivated denial, it is appropriate to dismiss the claim that originated this procedure.  
In view of the cited provisions and others of general application, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection RESOLVES:  
FIRST: TO DISMISS the claim made by A.A.A. against BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A.  
SECOND: TO NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A. and to BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A.  
In accordance with the provisions of Article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.  
Against this resolution, which concludes the administrative procedure in accordance with Article 48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file a motion for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within one month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of Article 25 and Section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within two months from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.  
1381-090823  
Mar España Martí  
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es