

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of unauthorized processing of personal data in the non-bank client information register
Company


The inspection was initiated on the basis of the complainant's complaint about the unauthorized processing of his personal data by the inspected person in the NRKI register after the termination of the leasing contract.

The subject of the inspection was compliance with the controller's obligations when processing the personal data of clients - natural persons, especially the complainant according to Regulation (EU) 2016/679, with a focus on Article 5 paragraph 1 letter a), b), c), e), Article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The obligations of the controlled person according to No. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (principles) were checked, namely the legality and transparency of processed personal data, the purposes of processing, the adequacy of personal data with regard to the purposes of processing, erasure, correction and processing time. Furthermore, the legality of the processing was checked according to ยง 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

During the inspection, the inspector of the Office decided to suspend the inspection in the given case. The reason was the fact that on March 21, 2017, the Municipal Court in Prague interrupted the proceedings in the matter of the lawsuit filed by the SOLUS association against the decisions of the Office for Personal Data Protection (file no. 10a212L/2-13), and submitted to the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic a proposal to repeal of ยง 20 of Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on consumer protection. At the same time, on January 23, 2018, the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic decided on a proposal by a group of senators to repeal part ยง 20 of the Act on Consumer Protection, by combining the two proposals mentioned above into one proceeding. The Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic has not yet ruled on both proposals (last verified on June 24, 2020).


The inspected person did not object to the inspection findings.


ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Financial services and insurance industry > Inspection of unauthorized processing of personal data in the non-bank client register of informationView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



