 

  

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
Opinion  02/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Latvia regarding the approval of the 
requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Article 41 GDPR 
 

Adopted on 3 February 2023 

 

 

Adopted  

1 

Table of contents  

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ............................................................................................................... 4 
ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................. 4 
General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements . 4 
 
 
Analysis of the LV SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

GENERAL REMARKS ........................................................................................................ 5 
INDEPENDENCE .............................................................................................................. 6 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 8 
EXPERTISE ....................................................................................................................... 9 
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .............................................................. 9 
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING ........................................................................ 10 
COMMUNICATION WITH THE LV SA ............................................................................. 10 
REVIEW MECHANISMS.................................................................................................. 11 
LEGAL STATUS ............................................................................................................... 11 
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................................................ 11 
FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................ 13 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

Adopted  

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to Article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during the accreditation of  a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory authority. Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent SAs to draft their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies based on article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance explaining the  accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting the competent SAs to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve a harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to Article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term “accreditation”. However, 
Article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

                                                             
1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

Adopted  

3 

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in Article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The Latvian supervisory authority (hereinafter “LV SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to Art. 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 28 October 2022.  

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks. 

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address Art. 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of Art. 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to Art. 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 

Adopted  

4 

foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

5. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. Art. 40 GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing 
up of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account 
of the specific features of the various processing sectors and the specific needs of micro, small and 
medium sized enterprises.” Therefore, the Board recognises that the requirements need to work for 
different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing various interests at stake and 
covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

LV SA to take further action.  

8. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the LV SA, which are outside the scope of Art. 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the LV SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s 

monitoring bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Art. 41 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a monitoring body need to address 

in order to be accredited; 

b.  Art. 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities per Art. 41 

(6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Art. 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

10. 

11. 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

The Board notes that the reference to  the  processing carried out by public authorities and bodies 
provided under section 15 of the Guidelines is missing and, therefore, the Board recommend the LV 
SA to include such a reference. 

For the sake of consistency and clarity, the Board encourages the LV SA to replace throughout the draft 
accreditation requirements the term “LVSA” with the term “Competent Supervisory Authority” in line 
with the terminology used in the Guidelines. At the same time the Board encourages the LV SA to 
introduce in the draft requirements a definition of the term “Competent Supervisory Authority”, to be 
understood as the Data State Inspectorate of the Republic of Latvia. 

Adopted  

5 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

For  the  sake  of  consistency,  the  Board  encourages  the  LV  SA  to  adjust  terminology  used  in  the 
requirements to the terminology used in the Guidelines, this applies to the terms ‘code owners’, i. e. 
to include “and in line with national law”.  

In general, the Board encourages the LV SA to ensure consistency of the wording throughout the text. 
For instance, in section 4.1 the term “appropriate” expertise is used, while in section 4.3 the word 
“adequate” experience and knowledge is introduced. 

The Board encourages the LV SA, for the sake of consistency, to use the word/wording “influence” 
instead  of  “pressure”  (section  2.1.1.e),  “mitigate”  instead  of  “make  appropriate  provisions  for” 
(section 2.1.2.g), “previous and planned” or “previous, current and upcoming” instead  of “past or 
projected”  (section  2.2.7.a),  “influence”  instead  of  “interference”  (section  2.3.1.e,  section  3.1.b), 
“carry  out”  instead  of  “discharge”(section  4.1,  section  4.3),  “shall  introduce”  instead  of  “has 
introduced” (section 5.2), “understandable” instead of “understood” (section 6.1.a). 

The Board notes that on 22 February 2022, “the Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for 
transfers”  were  adopted.  These  guidelines  do  not  add  any  additional  requirements  for  the 
accreditation of monitoring bodies that monitor codes of conduct intended for international transfers. 
Rather, the guidelines provide further specifications of the general requirements established by the 
Guidelines (Section 12), taking into account the specific context of international transfers.2 For the 
sake  of  clarity,  the  Board  recommends  the  LV  SA  to  add  a  reference  to  the  above-mentioned 
guidelines, which are relevant in the context of monitoring codes of conduct intended for international 
transfers.   

16.  With reference to section 1.3, the Board understands that when referring to transnational application, 
a  translation  into  Latvian  of  the  documents  submitted  in  another  language  shall  be  attached. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the LV SA to clarify if the understanding of the Board is correct. 

17. 

The Board notes that letters a and b 4 under section 1.6 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements 
would be better placed in section 3 as evidence in regard to requirements relating to the absence of 
conflict of interest. Thus, in order to avoid confusion, the EDPB encourages the LV SA to move the 
paragraphs accordingly. 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

 

18.  With regard to section 2.1 (“Legal status and organisational independence“), for the sake of clarity the 
Board encourages the LV SA to redraft this section by stating that the monitoring body can act as an 
internal  or  external  monitoring  body  vis-à-vis  the  code  owner,  “with  the  choice  of  a  particular 
approach at the discretion of the code owner”. 

19.  With regard to section 2.1.b, the Board recommends the LV SA to add the wording “appropriately 
independent in relation to its impartiality of function”, as provided by paragraph 63 of the Guidelines. 

20.  With regard to section 2.1.1.c, the Board recommends the LV SA to add the following word “full” when 

it refers to autonomy, as provided by paragraph 67 of Guidelines. 

21.  With regard to section 2.1.1.f, in order to provide the same understanding as the one in paragraph 67 
of Guidelines, the Board encourages the LV SA to add a reference referring to the independence “in 
performing its tasks and exercising its power”. 

                                                             
2 See Section4.2 of the EDPB Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfers. 

Adopted  

6 

22.  With  regard  to  section  2.1.2.a,  the  Board  understands  that  the  appointment  refers  to 
“members/staff”. However, in order to avoid confusion, the Board encourages the LV SA to make it 
clearer.  

23.  With regard to section 2.1.2.d, the Board encourages the LV SA to clarify that the declaration shows 

there are no common interests with the entities to be monitored.  

24.  With regard to section 2.1.2.g, the Board underlines that, according to paragraph 66 of the Guidelines, 
the independence of a monitoring body should be demonstrated by appropriate safeguards in place 
to sufficiently mitigate a risk of independence or a conflict of interest. Moreover, a monitoring body 
will  need  to  identity  risks  to  its  impartiality  on  an  ongoing  basis.  The  LV  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements do not include such references to “conflict of interest” and “impartiality” and, therefore, 
the Board recommends to amend section 2.1.2.g accordingly. 

25.  Moreover,  with  regard  to  the  financial  support  (section  2.2.3),  the  Board  observes  that  the  draft 
accreditation requirements refer to the means that “shall not adversely affect its independence”. The 
Board encourages the LV SA to redraft the relevant part of the requirements by adding a reference to 
“in relation to the task of monitoring compliance with the Code”. 

26. 

In addition, the Board considers that the requirements on financial resources would benefit from the 
inclusion of some examples with regard to the financial independence of the monitoring body, in order 
to highlight how the monitoring body can demonstrate that the means by which it obtains financial 
support should not adversely affect its independence (section 2.2). For instance, the monitoring body 
would not be considered financially independent if the rules governing its financial support allow a 
code member, who is under investigation by the monitoring body, to stop its financial contributions to 
it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring body. The Board encourages the LV SA to 
add such clarification and provide examples of how the monitoring body can provide such evidence. 

27.  With respect to internal monitoring bodies (section 2.2.7), the Board recommends the LV SA to add a 
requirement  to  prove  that  the  internal  monitoring  body  has  a  specific  separated  budget  that  the 
monitoring body is able to manage independently. 

28. 

Finally,  monitoring  bodies  must  have  sufficient  financial  and  other  resources  together  with  the 
necessary procedures to ensure the functioning of the code of conduct over time to ensure long-term 
financing, e. g. when one or more funding sources are no longer available. That is why, with respect to 
section 2.2.7 of the draft requirements, the Board encourages the LV SA to add a clear indication that 
financial stability and resources need to be accompanied with the necessary procedures to ensure the 
functioning of the code of conduct over time. 

29.  With regard to section 2.3.1.a, the Board understands that the reference to “payroll system for its 
personnel”  is  an  example  and  encourages  the  LV  SA  to  clarify  the  wording,  by  adding  the  word 
“including” before the words “has payroll systems”. 

30.  With respect to section 2.3.1.a and the requirements that an internal body has to demonstrate, the 
Board notes that the requirements from paragraph 65 of Guidelines referring to the use of effective 
organizational  and  information  barriers  and  separate  reporting  management  structures  for  the 
association and monitoring body were not included. Therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to 
add the missing requirements. 

31.  With respect to section 2.3.1.c, addressing the need for the monitoring body to prove, among others, 
that it has “adequate” human resources for the effective performance of its functions under Art. 41 

Adopted  

7 

(1) GDPR, the Board encourages the LV SA to consider making a reference to “adequate numbers of 
sufficiently qualified personnel”. 

32. 

In  addition,  the  Board  notes  that  the  monitoring  bodies  shall  be  composed  of  an  adequate  and 
proportionate number of personnel. These organisational aspects could be demonstrated not only 
through  the  procedure  to  appoint  the  monitoring  body  personnel,  the  remuneration  of  the  said 
personnel,  the  duration  of  the  personnel’s  mandate,  but  also  through  contract  or  other  formal 
agreement with the monitoring body. Therefore, the Board recommends that the LV SA provide the 
above-mentioned references regarding the independence of the monitoring body in performing its 
tasks and exercising its powers, in accordance with the Guidelines. 

33.  With  regard  to  section  2.3.1.d,  The  Board  encourages  the  LV  SA  to  include  either  in  the  draft 
accreditation requirements or in the complementary guidance to the requirements, some examples of 
the evidence or documentation required in order to demonstrate the accountability of the monitoring 
body. 

34. 

In section 2.3.4.d, the Board recommends that the LV SA adds a clear indication that the monitoring 
body shall ensure effective monitoring of the services provided by subcontractors.  
 

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

35.  As a general remark in this section, the Board is of the opinion that, for practical reasons, more detailed 
examples of cases where a conflict of interest could arise might be helpful. An example of a conflict of 
interest situation would be the case where personnel conducting audits or making decisions on behalf 
of  a  monitoring  body  had  previously  worked  for  the  code  owner,  or  for  any  of  the  organisations 
adhering  to  the  code.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  LV  SA  to  elaborate  on  the  examples 
included in the explanatory note. 

36.  With regard to section 3.1.c, the Board underlines that, according to paragraph 68 of the Guidelines, 
the monitoring body must remain free from external influence, whether direct or indirect, and shall 
neither seek nor take instructions from any person, organisation or  association. The LV SA’s draft 
accreditation requirements do not include references to the terms “whether direct or indirect” or to 
the term “association” and, therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to add such references.  

37.  As regards section 3.1.e, the Board highlights that, according to paragraph 68 of the Guidelines, the 
body should have its own staff which are chosen by them or some or some other body independent of 
the code and it should be subject to the exclusive direction of those bodies only. The LV SA’s draft 
accreditation requirements do not include reference to “other body independent of the code” and, 
therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to align the text with the Guidelines by adding “and that 
other body independent of the code” after the wording “exclusive direction of the monitoring body”. 

38.  With reference to section 3.2, the Board underlines that, according to paragraph 68 of the Guidelines, 
the monitoring body shall put in place safeguards not only in regard to conflict of interest but also to 
any incompatible occupation. The LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements do not include reference 
to “and any incompatible occupation” and, therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to add such 
reference after the wording “potential conflict of interest”.  

 

Adopted  

8 

  EXPERTISE 

39.  With reference to section 4.1, paragraph 69 of the Guidelines states that the monitoring body has the 
requisite level of expertise. Therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to align the text with the 
Guidelines and require to have a “requisite level” expertise instead of “appropriate” expertise. 

40. 

In respect of section 4.2, the Board encourages the LV SA to add also the reference to the previous 
experience of acting in a monitoring capacity. 

41.  With regard to sections 4.2.a, 4.2.b and 4.2.c referring to “in-depth knowledge and experience”, the 
Board recommends the LV SA to follow the wording from paragraph 69 of the Guidelines by replacing 
“in-depth understanding and expert knowledge”. The Board also recommends to add “data protection 
issues”  to  the  section  4.2.a  as  this  requirement,  specified  in  paragraph  69  of  the  Guidelines,  is 
important part of the expert-knowledge as it ensures that personnel of the monitoring body is able to 
assess and reflect not only the data protection law but also specific legal and practical issues that might 
be relevant in regard to each specific case.  

42.  As regards section 4.2.c, the Board underlines that paragraph 69 of the Guidelines refers to auditing, 
monitoring or quality assurance activities and, therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to follow 
the  wording  from  the  Guidelines,  i.e.  by  replacing  the  word  “control”  with  the  ones  specified  in 
paragraph 69 of the Guidelines. 

43.  With reference to section 4.4, the Board acknowledges the requirement for the monitoring body to 
demonstrate that it has expertise in relation to the specific data processing activities addressed by the 
code. However, as expressed by the Board in previous opinions, other factors such as the size of the 
sector concerned, the different interests involved and the risks of these processing activities should be 
taken into account. The Board therefore recommends that this is clarified in the draft accreditation 
requirements. 

44.  Moreover, the Board notes that the LV SA’s expertise requirements do not differentiate between staff 
at the management level and, therefore, in charge of the decision-making process, and staff at the 
operating level, conducting the monitoring activities. In this regard, the Board encourages the LV SA 
to clarify in section 4.4 which requirements should be met by the staff performing the monitoring 
function and the personnel making the decisions. 

45. 

Furthermore,  as  regards  sections  4.6  and  4.7,  the  Board  considers  that  the  requirements  for  the 
personnel are very specific and may curtail  the freedom of the code owner to define  the specific 
expertise  requirements  in  the  code  of  conduct.  The  Board  encourages  the  LV  SA  to  make  the 
requirements  less  restrictive  by  including  a  more  general  reference  that  takes  into  account  the 
different types of codes, such as "a relevant level of experience in accordance with the code itself". 

46. 

In  addition,  the  Board  observes  that  the  LV  SA  makes  a  distinction  between  legal  and  technical 
personnel. The Board encourages the LV SA to clarify that the technical requirements of the personnel 
will depend on whether it is necessary for the code at stake. 

 

47. 

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

The Board observes that the requirements based on paragraph 72 of the Guidelines, referring to the 
publication  of  audit  reports  as  well  as  to  the  findings  of  periodic  reporting  from  controllers  and 

Adopted  

9 

processors  within  the  scope  of  the  code,  and  paragraph  73  of  the  Guidelines  are  missing  and, 
therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to add the missing requirements. 

48.  With  reference  to  section  5.1,  the  Board  highlights  that  paragraph  70  of  the  Guidelines  refers  to 
“appropriate governance structures” and procedures. The LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements do 
not include reference to “appropriate governance structures” and, therefore, the Board recommends 
the LV SA to add such reference.  

49.  With  regard  to  section  5.2.a,  the  Board  underlines  that  paragraph  71  of  the  Guidelines  refers  to 
“controllers and processors” when it comes to the provisions of the code to be met and, therefore, the 
Board recommends the LV SA to replace “code members” with “controller and processors”. 

50. 

In respect of section 5.2.b, the Board observes that the LV SA’ draft accreditation requirements do not 
include reference to “random or unannounced audits, annual inspections, regular reporting and the 
use of questionnaires” as per paragraph 72 of the Guidelines and, therefore, the Board recommends 
the LV SA to add such a reference. The Board, taking into consideration paragraph 72 of the Guidelines, 
also recommends to include “specific incidents and the number of members of the code” to the factors 
that  should  be  considered  in  regard  to  procedures  specified  in  section  5.2.b,  and  those  factors  is 
recommended to be drafted in a non-exhaustive list. 

 

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

51.  Regarding section 6, the Board highlights that section 12.5 of the Guidelines refers to “Transparent 
complaints handling”. Therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to align the title of this section in 
line with the Guidelines. 

52.  With reference to section 6.1 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board considers that, 
according  to  paragraph  74  of  the  Guidelines,  the  monitoring  body  will  need  to  establish  effective 
procedures and structures which can deal with complaints handling in an impartial and transparent 
manner. Therefore, the Boards recommends the LV SA that the requirement is redrafted accordingly.  

53.  With regard to section 6.1.b, paragraph 76 of the Guidelines refers to “immediate” suitable measures 

and, therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to adapt the wording accordingly. 

54. 

55. 

56. 

In addition, regarding the remedial actions and sanctions, the Board recommends the LV SA to amend 
the text in order  to make references  to “a  formal notice requiring the implementation of specific 
actions within a specified deadline” and “temporary suspension”. 

Finally,  as  regards  section  6.1.b,  the  Board  understands  that  the  corrective  measures  refer  to  the 
situation  when  the  controller  or  processor  from  the  code  “acts  outside  the  terms  of  the  code”. 
However, for clarity reasons, the Board encourages the LV SA to make it clearer.  

  COMMUNICATION WITH THE LV SA 

The Board notes that under section 7 of the requirements there is no reference to the fact that the 
updating of the code of conduct is the responsibility of the code owner. The Board is of the opinion 
that, in order to avoid confusion, a reference to the code owner should be made. Therefore, the Board 
encourages  the  LV  SA  to  add  that  the  monitoring  body  shall  apply  and  implement  updates, 
amendments, and/or extensions to the Code, as decided by the code owner. 

Adopted  

10 

57.  With respect to section 7.2, the Board notes that the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements do not 
refer to the “effective communication” of any actions carried out by a monitoring body to the LV SA 
and, therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to include such a reference. 

58.  As  regards  section  7.2.f,  the  Board  encourages  the  LV  SA  to  specify  in  its  draft  accreditation 
requirements that substantial changes include but are not limited to any changes that impacts the 
ability of the monitoring body to perform its tasks in an independent, impartial and efficient manner.  

59. 

60. 

In addition, the Board encourages the LV SA to specify in section 7.2.g that the annual report prepared 
by the monitoring body should include reviews and/or changes made to the code. 

  REVIEW MECHANISMS 

The Board observes that the requirement from paragraph 80 of the Guidelines, which states that the 
monitoring  body  shall  set  out  appropriate  review  mechanisms  to  ensure  that  the  code  remains 
relevant  and  continues  to  contribute  to  the  proper  application  of  the  GDPR,  was  not  included. 
Therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to add the missing requirement. 

  LEGAL STATUS 

61.  The Board notes that the requirement from paragraph 81 of the Guidelines, which states that the 
monitoring body has the appropriate standing to carry out its role under Art. 41(4) and is capable of 
being fined as per Art. 83 (4) GDPR, was not included. Therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to 
add the missing requirement. 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

62.  The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  LV  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an  inconsistent 

application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

63.  Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the LV SA: 

1. 

includes  a  reference  that  the  monitoring  of  approved  codes  of  conduct  will  not  apply  to 

processing carried out by public authorities or bodies; 

2.  adds a reference to the Guidelines 04/2021, which are relevant in the context of monitoring 

codes of conduct intended for international transfers. 

64.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the LV SA: 

1.  adds the following wording “appropriately independent in relation to its impartiality of function” 

in section 2.1.b; 

2.  adds the word “full” in section 2.1.1.c when it refers to autonomy; 
3.  redrafts section 2.1.2.g to include references to “conflict of interest” and “impartiality”; 
4.  adds in section 2.2.7 a requirement to prove that the internal monitoring body has a specific 

separated budget that monitoring body is able to manage independently; 

5.  adds  in  section  2.3.1.a  a  requirement  referring  to  the  use  of  effective  organizational  and 
information  barriers  and  separate  reporting  management  structures  for  the  association  and 
monitoring body; 

Adopted  

11 

6. 

includes in section 2.3.1 the references mentioned in paragraph 31 of this Opinion concerning 

the independence of the monitoring body in performing its tasks and exercising its powers; 

7.  makes  explicit  that  the  monitoring  body  shall  ensure  effective  monitoring  of  the  services 

provided by subcontractors. 

65.  Regarding conflict of interest the Board recommends that the LV SA: 

1. 

includes in section 3.1.c references to “whether direct or indirect” and “association”, in line with 

the Guidelines; 

2.  aligns the text of the section 3.1.e with the Guidelines by adding “and that other independent 

body of the code” after the wording “exclusive direction of the monitoring body”; 

3.  aligns the text of section 3.2 with the Guidelines by adding “and any incompatible occupation” 

after the wording “potential conflict of interest”. 

66.  Regarding expertise the Board recommends that the LV SA: 

1.  aligns the text of section 4.1 with the Guidelines by using “requisite level” expertise instead of 

“appropriate” expertise; 

2.  replaces  “in-depth  knowledge  and  experience”  with  “in-depth  understanding  and  expert 
knowledge” in sections 4.2.a, 4.2.b and 4.2.c and adds the wording “data protection issues” in section 
4.2.a; 

3.  follows the wording of paragraph 69 from the Guidelines, by replacing the word “control” with 

“auditing, monitoring or quality assurance activities”; 

4.  clarifies  that  other  factors  such  as  the  size  of  the  sector  concerned,  the  different  interests 
involved and the risks of these processing activities should be taken into account in order to assess the 
level of expertise required by the monitoring body. 

67.  Regarding established procedures and structures the Board recommends that the LV SA: 

1. 

includes in section 5.2 a requirement referring to the publication of audit reports as well as to 

the findings of periodic reporting from controllers and processors within the scope of the code; 

includes requirements based on paragraph 73 of the Guidelines; 

2. 
3.  aligns the text in section 5.1 with the Guidelines by adding “appropriate governance structures” 

after the wording “has introduced”; 

4.  aligns the text of section 5.2.a with the Guidelines by replacing “code members” with “controller 

and processors”; 

5.  adds  in  section  5.2.b  some  examples  in  the  requirements,  such  as  random  or  unannounced 
audits, annual inspections, regular reporting and the use of questionnaires. In addition, it should be 
included the “specific incidents and the number of members of the code” to the factors that should be 
considered in regard to the procedures specified in section 5.2.b and those factors to be drafted in 
non-exhaustive list. 

68.  Regarding transparent complaint handling the Board recommends that the LV SA: 

1.  aligns  the  title  of  section  6  with  the  Guidelines,  which  refers  to  “Transparent”  complaints 

handling; 

Adopted  

12 

2.  redrafts the requirement in section 6.1 in line with paragraph 74 of the Guidelines, by adding 
that  the  monitoring  body  shall  establish  effective  procedures  and  structures  which  can  deal  with 
complaints handling in an impartial and transparent manner; 

3.  aligns  the  text  of  section  6.1.b  with  paragraph  76  of  the  Guidelines,  by  adding  the  word 
“immediate” before suitable measures. In addition, regarding the remedial actions and sanctions, it 
should be included a reference to “a formal notice requiring the implementation of specific actions 
within a specified deadline” and “temporary” suspension. 

69.  Regarding communication with the competent supervisory authority the Board recommends that the 

LV SA: 

1.  redrafts section 7.2 to include the reference to the “effective communication” of any actions 

carried out by a monitoring body to the LV SA; 

2.  redrafts section 7.2 to include reference to the “effective communication” to “other supervisory 

authorities”, as far as transnational codes are concerned. 

70.  Regarding review mechanisms the Board recommends that the LV SA: 

1.  adds in section 8.1 a requirement stating that the monitoring body shall set out appropriate 
review  mechanisms  to  ensure  that  the  code  remains  relevant  and  continues  to  contribute  to  the 
proper application of the GDPR. 

71.  Regarding legal status the Board recommends that the LV SA: 

1.  modify section 9.1 in order to include that the monitoring body has the appropriate standing to 

carry out its role under Article 41(4) and is capable of being fines as per Art. 83(4) GDPR. 

 

  FINAL REMARKS 

72.  This opinion is addressed to the Latvian supervisory authority and will made public pursuant to Art. 64 

(5) (b) GDPR. 

73.  According to Art. 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the LV SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part. 

74.  The LV SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 

which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with Art. 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted  

13 

