 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

Opinion 6/2023 on the draft decision of the Danish 

Supervisory Authority regarding the Controller Binding 

Corporate Rules of Royal Greenland Group 

 

Adopted on 23 March 2023   

 

 

Adopted 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS .................................................................................................5 
ASSESSMENT ..................................................................................................................5 
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ...............................................................................5 
FINAL REMARKS ..............................................................................................................6 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1 
2 
3 
4 
 
 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64(1)(f)  and Article 47 of  the  Regulation 2016/679/EU of  the 
European Parliament and of the Council  of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of  personal data and on the free movement of  such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
Having regard to the European Economic Area (hereinafter “EEA”) Agreement and in particular to 
Annex  XI  and Protocol  37  thereof, as  amended  by  the  Decision  of  the  EEA joint  Committee  No 
154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 

Having  regard to  the  judgment  of  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the  European  Union  Data  Protection 
Commissioner v. Facebook Ireland Ltd and Maximillian Schrems, C-311/18 of 16 July 2020,  

Having regard to EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement  transfer tools to 
ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal data of 18 June 2021, 

Having regard to Articles 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure. 

Whereas: 

(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter the “EDPB”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR throughout the EEA. To this effect, it follows from Article 64(1)(f) 
GDPR that the EDPB shall issue an opinion where a supervisory  authority (hereinafter “SA”) aims to 
approve binding corporate rules (hereinafter “BCRs”) within the meaning of Article 47 GDPR. 

(2)  The EDPB welcomes and  acknowledges the efforts  the companies  make  to uphold  the GDPR 
standards in a global environment. Building on the experience under Directive 95/46/EC, the EDPB 
affirms the important role of BCRs to frame international transfers and its commitment to support the 
companies in setting-up their BCRs. This opinion aims towards this objective and takes into account 
that the GDPR strengthened the level of protection, as reflected in the requirements of Article 47 
GDPR, and conferred to the EDPB the task to issue an opinion on the competent SA’s draft decision 
aiming to approve BCRs. This task of the EDPB aims to ensure the consistent application of the GDPR, 
including by the SAs, controllers, and processors. 

(3) Pursuant to Article 46(1) GDPR, in the absence of a decision  pursuant to Article 45(3) GDPR, a 
controller or processor may transfer personal data to a third country or international organisation only 
if the controller or processor has provided appropriate safeguards, and on condition that enforceable 
data subject rights and effective legal remedies for data subjects are available. A group of undertakings 
or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity may provide such safeguards by the use 
of legally binding BCRs, which expressly confer enforceable rights on data subjects and fulfil a series of 
requirements (Article 46 GDPR). The implementation and adoption of BCRs by a group of undertakings 
is  intended  to  provide  guarantees that apply  uniformly  in  all  third  countries  and, consequently, 
independently of the level of protection guaranteed in each third country. The specific requirements 

                                                             
1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 

Adopted 

3 

listed in the GDPR are the minimum items BCRs shall specify (Article 47(2) GDPR). The BCRs are subject 
to approval from the competent SA (hereinafter “the BCR Lead”), in accordance with the consistency 
mechanism set out in Article 63 and Article 64(1)(f) GDPR, provided that the BCRs meet the conditions 
set out in Article 47 GDPR, together with the requirements set out in the relevant working documents 
of the Article 29 Working Party2, endorsed by the EDPB. 

(4) This opinion only covers the EDPB’s consideration that the BCRs submitted for the required opinion 
afford appropriate safeguards in that they meet all requirements of Article 47 GDPR and WP256 rev.01 
of the Article 29 Working Party, as endorsed  by the EDPB 3. Accordingly, this opinion  and the SAs’ 
review do not address elements and obligations of the GDPR mentioned in the BCRs at issue other 
than those  related to  Article 47  GDPR. This  also  applies  to any  supplementary measures  that an 
exporter subject to the GDPR may  be required  to adopt, depending  on  the  circumstances of the 
transfer, in order to ensure compliance with the commitments taken in the BCRs.  

(5) The EDPB recalls that, in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European 
Union C-311/18 , it is the responsibility of the data exporter subject to the GDPR, if needed with the 
help of the data importer, to assess whether the level of protection required by EU law is respected in 
the third country concerned, in order to determine if the guarantees provided by BCRs can be complied 
with in  practice, taking into  consideration  the possible  interference created by  the third  country 
legislation with the fundamental rights. If this is not the case, the data exporter subject to the GDPR, 
if needed with the help of the data importer, should assess whether they can provide supplementary 
measures to ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU . 

(6)  The WP256 rev.01 of the Article 29 Working Party, as endorsed  by  the EDPB, provides  for the 
required  elements  for  BCRs  for  controllers  (hereinafter  “BCR-C”),  including  the  Intra-Company 
Agreement where applicable, and the application form. The WP264 of the Article 29 Working Party4, 
as endorsed by the EDPB, provides for recommendations to the applicants to help them demonstrate 
how to meet the requirements of Article 47 GDPR and WP256 rev.01. Additionally, the WP264 informs 
the applicants  that any  documentation  submitted  is  subject  to  access  to  documents  requests  in 
accordance with the SAs’ national laws. The EDPB is subject to Regulation 1049/20015 pursuant to 
Article 76(2) GDPR.  

(7) Taking into account the specific characteristics of BCRs provided for by Article 47(1) and (2) GDPR, 
each application should be addressed individually  and is without prejudice to the assessment of any 
other BCRs. The EDPB recalls that BCRs should be customised to take account of the structure of the 
group of companies that they apply to, the processing they undertake, and the policies and procedures 
that they have in place to protect personal data 6.  

                                                             
2 The Working Party on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data instituted by 
Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC. 
3 Article 29 Working Party, Working Document setting up a table with the elements and principles to be found 
in Binding Corporate Rules, as last revised and adopted on 6 February 2018, WP 256 rev.01. 
4 Article 29 Working Party, Recommendations on the Standard Application for Approval of Controller Binding 
Corporate Rules for the Transfer of Personal Data, adopted on 11 April 2018, WP264. 
5 Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public 
access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents. 
6 This view was expressed by the Article 29 Working party in Working Document Setting up a framework for the 
structure of Binding Corporate Rules, adopted on 24 June 2008, WP154. 

Adopted 

4 

(8) The opinion  of the EDPB shall be adopted, pursuant to Article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with 
Article 10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure, within eight weeks after the Chair has decided that the 
file is complete. Upon decision of the EDPB Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks, 
taking into account the complexity of the subject matter. 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

In accordance with the cooperation procedure as set out in WP263 rev.01, the draft BCR-C of Royal 
Greenland A/S and its entities, factories, offices or other business  subsidiaries7  (hereinafter “Royal 
Greenland Group”) was reviewed by the Danish SA as the BCR Lead.  

The BCR Lead has submitted its draft decision regarding the draft BCR-C of the Royal Greenland Group, 
requesting an opinion  of  the  EDPB pursuant  to Article 64(1)(f) GDPR on  28 November  2022. This 
request was withdrawn on 15 February 2023 and re-submitted the same day, including an additional 
document following exchanges with the EDPB Secretariat. The decision on the completeness of the file 
was taken on 22 February 2023. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

The draft BCR-C of Royal Greenland Group covers the processing of personal data transferred directly 
or indirectly out of the EEA to any of the Royal Greenland Group members8. 
Concerned  data  subjects  include  potential,  current  and  former  employees;  business  customers, 
suppliers, and other business partners9. 
The draft BCR-C of the Royal Greenland Group has been scrutinised according to the procedures set 
up by the EDPB. The SAs assembled within the EDPB have concluded that the draft BCR-C of the Royal 
Greenland  Group  contains  all  elements  required  under  Article  47  GDPR and  WP256  rev.01,  in 
accordance with the draft decision of the BCR Lead submitted to the EDPB for an opinion. Therefore, 
the EDPB does not have any concerns that need to be addressed.  

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

Taking into account the above and the commitments that the group members will undertake by signing 
the Agreement regarding Royal Greenland BCRs, the EDPB considers that the draft decision of the BCR 
Lead may be adopted as it is, since the draft BCR-C of the Royal Greenland Group contains appropriate 
safeguards to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons guaranteed by the GDPR is not 
undermined when personal data is transferred to and processed by the group members based in third 
countries. The EDPB recalls that the approval of BCRs by the BCR Lead does not entail the approval of 
specific transfers of personal data to be carried out on the basis of the BCRs. Accordingly, the approval 

                                                             
7 Section 3.1 of the BCR-C. 
8 Section 2.2 of the BCR-C and Appendix 2. 
9 Section 1.2 of the BCR-C and Appendix 1. 

Adopted 

5 

of BCRs may not be construed as the approval of transfers to third countries included in the BCRs for 
which an essentially equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed within the EU cannot be ensured.  
Finally, the EDPB also recalls the provisions contained within Article 47(2)(k) GDPR and WP256 rev.01 
providing the conditions under which the applicant may modify or update the BCRs, including updates 
to the list of BCRs group members. 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

This opinion is addressed to the BCR Lead and will be made public pursuant to Article 64(5)(b) GDPR. 
According to Article 64(7) and (8) GDPR, the BCR Lead shall communicate its response to this opinion 
to the Chair within two weeks after receiving the opinion. 

7. 

8. 
9. 

10.  Pursuant to Article 70(1)(y) GDPR, the BCR Lead shall communicate the final decision to the EDPB for 

inclusion in the register of decisions which have been subject to the consistency mechanism. 

 
For the European Data Protection Board 
The Chair 
 
(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

6 

