

Bonn/Berlin, September 04, 2018


Press release 09/2018


  100 days GDPR: The GDPR learns to walk
With the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 100 days ago, data protection law was comprehensively amended. Right from the start there was great interest in the new law. There was a lot of public criticism in advance, which unfortunately was often caused by misinformation.

Andrea Voßhoff: Citizens are increasingly exercising their new rights under the GDPR. This can also be seen from the significant increase in receipts from the supervisory authorities. From May 25 to mid-August, my bank received a total of 1,020 complaints and 1,453 general inquiries. The institutions in my area of responsibility also take their obligations seriously, reported 4,254 potential data protection violations in the aforementioned period and also asked for advice. With 262 pending cases across Europe to date, the European data protection supervisory authorities have started their joint coordinating work. This development is to be welcomed because it shows that the GDPR is learning to walk.
Much of the GDPR misinformation circulating publicly around May 25 has created unnecessary uncertainty. The end of photography was predicted and the GDPR was described as a superfluous bureaucratic monster. There were fears of a wave of warnings or the mass imposition of fines by the supervisory authorities. Such scenarios have not happened.
Background information:
Specifically, the GDPR strengthens, among other things, the rights of 500 million EU citizens, for example through increased transparency requirements and more extensive information and notification obligations on the part of companies and authorities. Citizens can thus more easily foresee the consequences and scope of data processing and make better use of their rights.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











