
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    09/26/2018
                                Event: "Data protection and justice - challenges to case law and court administration" on September 25, 2018 Court Administration" in the plenary hall of the state parliament of Rhineland-Palatinate in the state museum in Mainz. Representatives of science, supervisory practice, the Rhineland-Palatinate judiciary and the legal profession discussed the effects of the data protection reform on the Rhineland-Palatinate judiciary.
                
                        
                                From left to right Maria Christina Rost, Dr. Carlo Piltz, Tim Wybitul, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, Philipp Fernis, Mario Mannweiler, PD Dr. Nicholas March
                            
                    
            The EU General Data Protection Regulation is applicable law and has direct effect - in principle also in the public sector and thus also for the judiciary. However, not only the General Data Protection Regulation itself leads to a significant reform of data protection law in Germany and the world, but also the data protection regulations that have been adapted or newly created at national level, especially in the area of public administration. Also not to be forgotten: Directive (EU) 680/2016 for the police and judiciary as the second legal act of the European Union as part of the major data protection reform. Their implementation in national laws also contains innovations, especially for law enforcement agencies and the criminal justice system.
Privatdozent Dr. At the beginning of the event, Nikolaus Marsch from the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) discussed the possibilities of judicial enforcement of the General Data Protection Regulation in his keynote speech, paying particular attention to the preliminary ruling procedure, which also allows national lower courts to submit questions to the ECJ regarding the interpretation and validity made possible by European law. Maria Christina Rost - personal advisor to the Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information - followed with a lecture on the fine procedures under the GDPR - with special consideration of the European influence on national administrative offense law. Following these two lectures, the speakers of the keynote speeches discussed together with the State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice Philipp Fernis, the senior public prosecutor Mario Mannweiler and the lawyers Dr. Carlo Piltz and Tim Wybitul on the impact of the data protection reform on the court administration and the judiciary, focusing on the following questions, among others: What impact does the General Data Protection Regulation have on the organization of jurisdiction and on case law? How are administrative offense proceedings to be carried out under the General Data Protection Regulation? What does the court administration have to consider when handling personal data? How does the new data protection law affect civil and administrative jurisdiction? Which aspects must also be taken into account in judicial activity? How is data protection law to be further developed in the application? The state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, as the organizer and moderator of the panel discussion, summarized: "The data protection reform initiated by the European Union is not only a challenge for business and administration, but also for the judiciary, both in the context of case law and court administration. The Europeanisation of data protection does not stop at the judiciary and requires special attention to ensure that citizens' data protection rights and legal protection are effectively upheld.”
                                return
                            



