media information
Saxon data protection officer

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider
extension
Telephone +49 351 85471 120
Fax +49 351 85471 109
sdb.presse@slt.sachsen.de*
05.04.2022

Supreme state authorities must be legally compliant
Evidence of the operation of Facebook fan pages
dr Juliane Hundert informs the State Chancellery about the new report
the data protection conference

(DSK) now has an expert opinion

Whether in ministries, universities or city administrations: Facebook
Fan pages are still widespread among public authorities. Included
the European Court of Justice made it clear in a judgment in 2018
made: The hurdles for data protection-compliant Facebook use
are high for public bodies because they are shared with Facebook
responsible for compliance with data protection.
The Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
Federal and the states
to the
data protection conformity of the operation of Facebook #Fanpages
submitted. It confirms case law and also takes into account newer ones
legal regulations.
The result is: »For the triggered when visiting a fan page
Storage of information in the terminal equipment (...) as well as for
the processing of personal data by site operators
are responsible for, there are no effective legal bases.
In addition, the information obligations from Art. 13 GDPR do not apply
Fulfills."
The Saxon Data Protection Officer Dr. Juliane Hundert explains:
»Can an authority check the data protection conformity of their fan page
If you don't prove usage, you have to deactivate your website. It's everywhere
known how opaque the data of users
processed on this platform. This creates complex ones
Personality proles, which are also used in authoritarian states, for example
Manipulation of elections can be used. authorities, the one
operate a Facebook fan page should be aware that
use inevitably involves violations of data protection law

Page 1 of 2

Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden

https://www.saechsdsb.de

To reach with the
Tram line 4
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)

* No access for encrypted
electronic documents. Access
for qualified electronic signatures
Documents only under the on
www.lsf.sachsen.de/eSignatur.html
noted conditions.

to

none

Solution

come,

connected is. It is therefore high time for public authorities to get involved
to put together Facebook and to use it in accordance with data protection regulations
agree or say goodbye to Facebook.«
At the 103rd data protection conference, the data protection officers
the federal states and the federal government decided to oversee them
subordinate supreme federal and state authorities via the DSK
to inform appraisals. You have agreed on deactivation
of Facebook fan pages, if those responsible
cannot prove compliance with data protection law.
The Saxon state government also operates Facebook fan pages. The
The Saxon data protection officer has already sent the report to the
forwarded to the State Chancellery. Now those responsible have to prove
that their fan pages are operated or communicated in accordance with data protection regulations,
until when the site operation will be discontinued.
Should it
can the Saxon
Data protection officer in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation
Prohibit processing of personal data.
dr Juliane Hundert emphasizes: »Public bodies have to comply with the law and
keep law. They also have a role model function. The review of
Fan pages of the highest state authorities is only a first step. Other
Authorities, for example municipalities, must ensure data protection compliance
also check their Facebook fan pages. The use of this social media
Platform is illegal in the vast majority of cases. To make sure
goes, who does without this social network. Instead recommend
I, the information offered on my own website in compliance with data protection regulations
expand and other privacy-friendly communication channels
build up. All citizens benet from this, not only
Facebook users.«
About the Saxon data protection officer
The Saxon data protection officer is the independent one for Saxony
Data protection supervisory authority according to Article 51 paragraph 1 of the data protection
General Regulation (GDPR). This arises with regard to non-public
Bodies (e.g. companies and associations) from § 14 paragraph 2 of the Saxon
Data Protection Implementation Act; with regard to public bodies (e.g.
B. authorities) from § 14 paragraph 1 of the same law.
Since 2022, Dr. Juliane Hundert holds the office and becomes her department
supported by more than 30 employees in Dresden.
The Saxon data protection officer monitors compliance with the
data protection regulations and handles complaints from citizens
citizens. Other tasks include advising
Saxon responsible for data protection issues.
More information: www.saechsdsb.de

Left:
DSK short report on Facebook fan pages
DSK shelling of Facebook fan pages

Page 2 of 2

