
DetailHomeNewsDetail


05/11/2023
“May makes everything new” – relaunch of the youth homepage Youngdata.deToday, May 11, 2023, the youth homepage of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments as well as the canton of Zurich, www.youngdata.de, will be presented with a new look "Youngdata.de" was launched 10 years ago as an in-house development by the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI). The aim of the site is to sensitize young people to the safe handling of their personal data on the Internet as well as in apps and social media. A lot has happened since then: in addition to the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments, the canton of Zurich has become a cooperation partner, the content has been constantly adapted to new developments, interactive elements and numerous videos and cartoons have been embedded for better illustration in a way that is appropriate for the target group. The LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate always had the ultimate technical and editorial responsibility for the common parts of the portal. Meanwhile, youngdata.de is also established in educational circles and is used not only in student workshops, but also by teachers, trainers and "Silver Surfers". Self-education used. “The last 10 years have shown that apps and digital services aimed at young people in particular have increased in number and are changing rapidly. It is therefore necessary to provide young people with continuous and up-to-date information and to train them to digital self-determination. The decisive factor for the success of youngdata.de was and is the media education support of the website," says Prof. Dieter Kugelmann, LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate, looking back: "With the help of a permanent media education position and FSJ staff, we have always managed to ensure quality and To ensure that youngdata.de is up-to-date". In March 2022, the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) decided to relaunch the site in order to adapt youngdata.de even better to the usage preferences of the target group. Today youngdata. de but not only a new graphic design, also the administration of the site will be spread over several shoulders in the future. "Since other data protection supervisory authorities have also increased their media education activities in the meantime, we are pleased about this increase in support. We will continue to support our 'offspring' youngdata.de in its development as a team. Kugelmann concludes.More:www.youngdata.dePress release from the DSK
return




