Legal Office  
N/REF: 0029/2020  

Before proceeding to analyze the text submitted for report, it is necessary to point out that, given the legal basis of the report that will be provided immediately and its mandatory nature, in accordance with the provisions of the regulations just mentioned, it should be indicated in the Exposition of Motives of the regulation that it has been submitted to the prior report of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.  

Furthermore, it should be noted that a previous version of this Draft Bill was studied by this Agency in its report 122/2018, in which it was already indicated how, given its nature, “the vast majority of its provisions refer to matters for which this Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent,” which is why numerous observations were made, many of which have been taken into account in the new text submitted.  

Therefore, this report will focus primarily on the analysis of the new features introduced in the new text as well as, where applicable, on those observations that have not been included in it.  

I  
In Report 122/2008, this Agency already highlighted how Directive 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council, whose transposition is carried out by this Draft Bill, “establishes a special regime, to which only the treatments regulated by it would be subject, as opposed to the general data protection regime set out in the General Data Protection Regulation. For this reason, its provisions will apply to all treatments carried out within the scope of application of Union law that are not specifically regulated by the Directive, as can be inferred from the scope of application established in Article 2 of the Regulation.” It was also emphasized that the character of a special norm is equally applicable to the norm that adapts Spanish law to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), currently constituted by Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), whose provisions should be taken into account as “the lex generalis applicable to guarantee the fundamental right to the protection of personal data.”  

Based on the previous observations, the new text submitted has included in its Article 1.1 regarding the object of the Law the text that, starting from the initially included in the Draft Bill, had been proposed by this Agency, in order to include the reference to the fundamental right of Article 18.4 of the Constitution.  

However, in light of some inaccuracies observed in the new text submitted, as occurs in Article 7.2 regarding the categories of interested parties to which reference will later be made, Article 1 of the Draft Bill can only be interpreted in relation to infringements and criminal sanctions, so that since the object of the Directive is to regulate the norms related to the protection of natural persons regarding the processing of their personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection, or prosecution of criminal infringements or enforcement of criminal sanctions, “including” the protection and prevention against threats to public security, this reference to prevention against threats to public security can only refer to those threats that constitute a crime.  

Any treatment related to the prevention of threats to public security that may constitute administrative infringements will be regulated in accordance with the GDPR, which establishes greater rights for the interested parties.  

Therefore, it is deemed necessary to replace in section 1 of Article 1 the expression “as well as” with “including,” which is the term provided in the Directive, resulting in the following wording:  
“This organic law aims to regulate the fundamental right, recognized by Article 18.4 of the Constitution, to the protection of personal data in relation to the processing of data carried out by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of criminal infringements or enforcement of criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention against threats to public security.”  

On the other hand, in the new text of the Draft Bill, a section 2 has been included with the following wording:  
“2. The fundamental right that natural persons have to the protection of personal data shall be exercised, in those matters that are applicable, in accordance with the provisions of the Organic Law.”
Legal Cabinet
3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and the guarantee of digital rights, provided that the result of such application is not contrary to the purposes of the processing referred to in the previous section.

However, this Agency considers that the general regime, contained in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD, will apply not only to what is not contrary to the purposes of the processing of Article 1.1, but to everything that is not specifically regulated in the Draft Bill – and of course, always provided that the Draft Bill, and subsequently the text of the law when approved, does not exceed the scope of Directive (EU) 2016/680, which it aims to transpose – in order to guarantee such purposes, taking into account that, as we also pointed out in our Report 122/2018, the regime of the Directive represents the minimum required to guarantee the fundamental right to data protection in relation to the processing subject to its scope of application and that domestic law may provide additional guarantees of the right, as expressly provided in Article 1.3 of the Directive, but in no case establish a more restrictive regime of the fundamental right than that contained in the Union law.

Therefore, considering that the general regulation of personal data protection will apply to what is not specifically regulated in the text submitted for report, the following wording of Article 1.2 is proposed:
“2. The fundamental right that individuals hold to the protection of personal data shall be exercised, in those matters that are applicable, in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which repeals Directive 95/46/EC, and in Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and the guarantee of digital rights, in all that is not specifically regulated in this Organic Law to guarantee the purposes of the processing referred to in the previous section.”

II
In Article 2 of the Draft Bill, important modifications have been introduced regarding the initially reported text. In this sense, subsection 1 has been modified to clarify that the processing referred to is that mentioned in Article 1, as proposed by this Agency, although the new wording, which deviates from that contained in the initial text and corresponds to that of the Directive, is confusing since the comma after “not automated” could be interpreted to mean that the modifying phrase “contained or intended to be included in a file” applies to both automated and non-automated processing, when in reality it only applies to the latter.

Therefore, the following wording of Article 2.1 is proposed:
“1. This organic law shall apply to the processing of personal data referred to in Article 1, whether it is a fully or partially automated processing, or a non-automated processing of personal data contained or intended to be included in a file.”

On the other hand, a new subsection 2 has been introduced regarding video surveillance, with the following content:
“2. It shall also apply to the processing of personal data derived from images and sounds obtained through the use of cameras and camcorders by the Security Forces and Corps and by the competent authorities for surveillance and control in penitentiary centers, as well as for the control, regulation, surveillance, and discipline of traffic for the purposes of Article 1. Outside of these cases, such processing shall be governed by its specific legislation and, subsidiarily, by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which repeals Directive 95/46/EC.”

The introduction of this subsection corresponds to what is provided in the LOPDGDD, whose Article 22, dedicated to “Processing for Video Surveillance Purposes,” states in its subsection 6 the following:
6. The processing of personal data derived from images and sounds obtained through the use of cameras and camcorders by the Security Forces and Corps and by the competent authorities for surveillance and control in penitentiary centers and for the control, regulation, surveillance, and discipline of traffic shall be governed by the transposition legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/680, when the processing has purposes of prevention, investigation, detection, or prosecution of criminal offenses or enforcement of criminal sanctions, including protection and prevention against threats to public safety. Outside of these cases, such processing shall be governed by its specific legislation and subsidiarily by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.
Legal Office
However, the wording of Article 2.2 must be modified to also establish the supplementary application of the LOPDGDD.
III
Section 3 of Article 2 refers to the competent authorities, and important modifications have been introduced in relation to the initially reported wording. Thus, after maintaining in its subsection 1, in general terms, the consideration of competent authorities, for the purposes of this organic law, as “any public authority that has legally assigned competencies for the achievement of the objectives of Article 1,” it subsequently identifies some of them in particular:
“In particular, the following authorities will have that consideration, within the scope of their respective competencies:
a) The Security Forces and Corps.
b) The Penitentiary Administrations.
c) The State Agency for Tax Administration.
d) The Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Monetary Offenses.
e) The Commission for the Surveillance of Activities Financing Terrorism.”
This wording differs from that included in the initial text, which listed as competent authorities the Security Forces and Corps, Judges and Courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Penitentiary Administrations, and the Deputy Directorate of Customs Surveillance of the Customs and Special Taxes Department of the State Agency for Tax Administration.
In this regard, it should be noted that Article 3.7 of the Directive defines as such “any public authority competent for the prevention, investigation, detection, or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention against threats to public security,” or “any other body or entity to which the law of the Member State has entrusted the exercise of public authority and public competencies for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection, or prosecution of criminal offenses or execution of criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention against threats to public security.”
Therefore, the inclusion of the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Monetary Offenses, taking into account the
Legal Office
competences attributed to it by Article 44 of Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, of the Commission for the Surveillance of Activities of Financing of Terrorism regulated in Article 9 of Law 12/2003, of May 21, on the prevention and blocking of the financing of terrorism and in Royal Decree 413/2015, of May 29, which approves the Regulation of the Commission for the Surveillance of Activities of Financing of Terrorism, and the generic reference to the State Agency for Tax Administration and not only to its Customs and Special Taxes Department, taking into account the competences attributed to it by Article 103 of Law 31/1990, of December 27, on the General State Budgets for 1991 and the tax and customs regulations, and the distribution of competences among Departments carried out in Order PCI/327/2019, of March 20, which modifies Order PRE/3581/2007, of December 10, which establishes the departments of the State Agency for Tax Administration and assigns them functions and competences, would, in principle, fit within the definition of competent authorities contained in Article 3.7 of the Directive, provided that they act to achieve the purposes of Article 1 of the Draft Bill. However, it is noteworthy that the mention of Judges and Courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which was made in that provision, has been omitted, to which the new text dedicates sections 5 and 6 of the same Article 2 to refer to the applicable regulations for the treatments carried out by them and to which we will subsequently refer.

At this point, and as already mentioned, it must be taken into account that the Directive defines a competent authority as “any public authority competent for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention against threats to public security,” with no doubt that, considering the competences constitutionally and legally attributed, such conceptualization is held by the Judges and Courts of the criminal jurisdiction, and the Public Prosecutor's Office when acting in that criminal jurisdiction. Likewise, the Judges of the Military Jurisdiction and the Military Courts will hold that condition, but only in cases where they act in criminal matters, in accordance with Chapter I of Title I of Organic Law 4/1987, of July 15, on the Competence and Organization of the Military Jurisdiction, as well as the Military Legal Prosecutor's Office, integrated into the Public Prosecutor's Office, also when acting in the criminal sphere.

This is expressly stated in the Directive, whose Recital 80 indicates that “Although this Directive also applies to the activities of national judicial bodies and other judicial authorities, the competence of the control authorities should not cover the processing of personal data when the judicial bodies act in the exercise of their judicial function, in order to guarantee the independence of judges in...
Legal Office
the performance of their functions. This exception must be limited to judicial activities in trials and should not apply to other activities in which judges may be involved, in accordance with the law of the member state. Member states may also provide that the authority of the supervisory authority does not cover the processing of personal data carried out by other independent judicial authorities in the exercise of their jurisdictional function, for example, the public prosecutor's office. In any case, compliance with the provisions of this Directive by the courts and other independent judicial authorities must always be subject to independent oversight in accordance with Article 8, paragraph 3, of the Charter.” Consequently, Article 45.2 of the Directive states that 2. Member states shall provide that each supervisory authority shall not be competent to control the processing operations carried out by the courts in the exercise of their judicial function. Member states may provide that their supervisory authority shall not be competent to control the processing operations carried out by other independent judicial authorities in the exercise of their judicial function.”

Likewise, explicit references to the courts are included in Recital 63, which states that “The data controller shall designate a person to assist in the internal supervision of compliance with the provisions adopted under this Directive, except in cases where a member state decides to exempt the courts and other independent judicial authorities when acting in the exercise of their jurisdictional function,” and in Recital 20, relating to the applicable regulations in criminal proceedings, which will be referenced later.

Therefore, since the Judges and Courts of the criminal jurisdiction and the Military Jurisdiction in the criminal field and the Public Prosecutor's Office are competent authorities for the purposes of the Directive and the Draft Law, it would be advisable to include them in the enumeration of competent authorities specifically contained in Article 2.3 of the Draft Law. 

On the other hand, regarding the applicable regulations to the processing carried out by the courts and by the Public Prosecutor's Office, paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 2 have been introduced, which state the following:
5. The processing carried out by the courts in the scope of Article 1 shall be governed by the provisions of Organic Law 6/1985, of July 1, on the Judiciary, by the criminal procedural laws, and, subsidiarily, by the provisions of Chapter III of this organic law.
6. The processing carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the scope of Article 1 shall be governed by the provisions of the previous paragraph and by the
Legal Office
Law 50/1981, of December 30, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
On the other hand, as noted in report 122/2018, in accordance with the provisions of article 236 ter.1 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which states that “The Courts may process personal data for jurisdictional or non-jurisdictional purposes. In the first case, the processing shall be limited to the data as long as they are incorporated into the processes they are aware of and their purpose is directly related to the exercise of jurisdictional power,” only the processing of data for jurisdictional purposes in the criminal order could fit within that of the competent authorities referred to in article 3.7 of the Directive, so section 5 should be amended to refer to “the processing carried out for jurisdictional purposes by the jurisdictional bodies of the Criminal Order or Military Jurisdiction in criminal matters.”
On the other hand, regarding the applicable regulations for such processing, we have already seen previously that they fall within the scope of application of the Directive, one of whose main objectives is to ensure a uniform and high level of protection of personal data of natural persons and to facilitate the exchange of personal data between the competent authorities of the Member States, as stated in Recital 7:
To ensure the effectiveness of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation, it is essential to ensure a uniform and high level of protection of personal data of natural persons and to facilitate the exchange of personal data between the competent authorities of the Member States. To this end, the level of protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with respect to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection, or prosecution of criminal offenses or enforcement of criminal sanctions, including protection and prevention against threats to public security, must be equivalent in all Member States. The effective protection of personal data throughout the Union requires both the strengthening of the rights of data subjects and the obligations of those who process such personal data, as well as the strengthening of equivalent powers to supervise and ensure compliance with the rules regarding the protection of personal data in the Member States.
Without prejudice to the foregoing and, as noted in Recital 20, “This Directive does not prevent Member States from specifying operations and processing procedures related to the processing of personal data by courts and other judicial authorities in their national laws regarding criminal proceedings, particularly with respect to personal data contained in judicial decisions or in records related to criminal proceedings.”
Consequently, the processing of personal data carried out by jurisdictional bodies and by the Public Prosecutor's Office is subject to the Directive and, therefore, to its transposition norm, without prejudice to the special provisions established by national regulations regarding criminal proceedings. Therefore, in the opinion of this Agency, such processing, insofar as it is not specifically provided for in Organic Law 6/1985, of July 1, on the Judiciary, in the criminal procedural laws, and in Law 50/1981, of December 30, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, must be subject to the regulations contained in the Draft Bill, and not only to those provided for in Chapter III.
Likewise, and in accordance with what has already been stated regarding Military Jurisdiction, Organic Law 2/1989, of April 13, on Military Procedure must be included among the specific regulations.
IV
Section 4 of article 2 maintains the reference that was contained in the initial text regarding the processing for the protection and prevention against threats to critical infrastructures, specifying in the new wording that it refers to processing carried out by entities other than the competent authorities:
4. The processing carried out by entities other than the competent authorities and whose purpose is the protection and prevention against threats to critical infrastructures shall be subject to Chapters III, VII, and VIII.
In relation to this issue, this Agency expressed its opinion in its Report 122/2018:
On the other hand, article 2.3 of the Draft Bill provides that “Processing whose purpose is the protection and prevention against threats to the security of critical infrastructures shall be subject to Chapters III, VII, and VIII of this organic law,” that is, those related to the rights of the affected parties, the complaint procedure, and the sanctioning regime.
Legal Office
In relation to this provision, its meaning is not fully understood, since if it refers to treatments aimed at the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, as well as protection and prevention against threats to public security, the provisions established in the Draft Bill would be fully applicable and not only the Chapters indicated in article 2.3. Likewise, if the purpose of such treatments were not the one just mentioned and outlined in article 1 of the Draft Bill, the provisions established in the General Data Protection Regulation would be fully applicable to such treatments, without the national legislator being able to restrict, through the transposition of Directive 2016/680, the scope of application of a Union law that is fully and directly applicable given its nature. However, it is not possible to determine whether this circumstance occurs, since the Draft does not even seem to refer to the fact that the data processing is carried out by the competent authorities, so that only in that case, by definition and in accordance with the provisions of article 1.1 of the aforementioned Union regulation, its provisions would apply.

In this regard, it should be recalled that the Regulation, as already mentioned, establishes a specific regime both concerning the rights of the affected parties and the procedures in case of complaints, the possibility of requesting compensation for damages resulting from the processing, and the sanctioning regime, with that provided in the Directive being more restrictive of the fundamental right than that contained in the regulation. Therefore, it would not be appropriate for the national legislator to determine the application to these treatments if they do not fit within the scope of application of the Directive, which transposes that provision into domestic law.

Thus, the suppression of article 2.3 of the Draft would be appropriate, since if it referred to treatments that fit within the scope of application of the Directive, they should be fully subject to the Draft Bill, while if they were cases regulated, in general, by the General Data Protection Regulation, it is not possible to restrict the application of that Union regulation through a provision of domestic law.

Consequently, specifying in the new wording that it refers to treatments carried out by subjects other than the competent authorities would not constitute a transposition of the Directive and would be extending to cases not contemplated therein a more restrictive regulation of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data than that established in the GDPR, which would be the general applicable norm.

All of this is without prejudice to the fact that, under article 23 of the GDPR and as long as the concurrence of any of the cases provided therein is justified, limitations may be established on the rights of the affected parties, which must respond to the principle of proportionality, but without extending, without further ado, a more restrictive regulation provided for a different case, such as that contained in the Directive.

Therefore, this Agency insists on the need to suppress paragraph 4 of article 2 of the Draft Bill.

V
Next, reference should be made to the cases of exclusion from the scope of application of the Organic Law contained in paragraph 7 of article 2.

Paragraph a) reflecting the observation made by this Agency has established the subjection of treatments carried out by the competent authorities for purposes other than those provided in article 1, including purposes of archiving for reasons of public interest, scientific and historical research, or statistical purposes, to the provisions of the GDPR. However, such treatments are also subject to the provisions of the national regulations that adapt Spanish law to it, so it should be added “and in Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5.”

On the other hand, article 2.3.a) of the Directive establishes that it does not apply to the processing of personal data in the exercise of an activity not included within the scope of Union Law, specifying in Recital 14 that “Since this Directive should not apply to the processing of personal data in the context of an activity that is not included within the scope of Union Law, activities related to national security, activities of services or units dealing with national security issues, and the processing of personal data carried out by Member States in the exercise of activities included in the scope of Title V, Chapter 2, of the Treaty on the European Union (TEU) should not be considered as falling within the scope of this Directive.”
Legal Office
Based on the above, the Draft Bill excludes from its application in Article 2.7 the following treatments:
b) Those carried out by the bodies of the General Administration of the State within the framework of activities included in the scope of application of Chapter II of Title V of the Treaty on European Union.
c) Those arising from an activity not included in the scope of application of European Union law.
d) Those subject to regulations on classified materials, Defense, or National Security.
In relation to these treatments, the non-application of the regulations contained in the Draft Bill does not imply that the right to the protection of personal data, recognized in the internal legal system as a fundamental right in Article 18.4 of the Constitution, should remain unprotected. In this regard, Report 122/2018 stated the following:
"The exclusion made by Article 2.4 b) of the Draft Bill regarding treatments linked to common foreign and security policy, regulated by Chapter II of Title V of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is also not problematic. Indeed, the General Data Protection Regulation clearly distinguishes in its Article 2.2 these treatments from those subject to the Directive itself, so they would not be subject to its scope of application nor to that of the norm that transposes it into domestic law, and this provision can be considered clarifying, given the nature of the activities related to these treatments.
Section c) refers to treatments 'derived from an activity not included in the scope of application of European Union law.'
In relation to this assumption, it should be noted that Article 2.2 a) of the Directive refers to the same, which would justify its exclusion. However, the provision of the Draft Bill should be harmonized with the rest of the provisions of Spanish law that regulate the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, since, logically, this right must not only be guaranteed in the cases expressly subject to Union law, but is recognized as a fundamental right in Article 18.4 of the Constitution, as has been repeatedly stated by the Constitutional Court.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
12

                                                           Legal Office
This means that, although it is obvious that the provisions of the Law transposing Directive 2016/680 into domestic law do not apply to these treatments, this does not imply that the fundamental right to the protection of personal data may remain unprotected in these cases.
For this reason, the Organic Law Project on the Protection of Personal Data establishes in its Article 2.3 that "Treatments to which the EU Regulation 2016/679 is not directly applicable due to affecting activities not included in the scope of application of European Union law, shall be governed by what is provided in its specific legislation if any, and subsidiarily by what is established in the aforementioned regulation and in this organic law."
In order to ensure a harmonized interpretation of all the regulations governing the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, it would be advisable to modify letter c) of Article 2.4 of the Draft Bill, adding to what is currently established "to which the provisions established in Article 2.3 of Organic Law XXX on the protection of personal data shall apply."
This same consideration should be taken into account regarding the reference made by Article 2.4 e) of the Draft Bill to "national defense."
The provision refers, within the excluded cases, to the one just mentioned along with the treatments subject to classified materials.
At this point, it should be recalled what is stated in Recital 14 of the Directive, in the sense that the regulation of classified materials can logically be considered included within the concept of national security mentioned in that recital.
However, the same conclusion cannot be drawn in relation to all treatments linked to national defense which, not logically fitting within the scope of application of the Draft Bill, according to its Article 1, will still be subject to the general data protection regime, not being excluded from the application of the General Organic Law, as they fall within those regulated by Article 2.3 previously referenced.
For this reason, it would be appropriate to separate the two matters mentioned by Article 2.4 e) of the Draft Bill, applying to the treatments "on national defense" the same rule that has been indicated. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
13
Legal Office
previously in relation to the processing referred to matters not
covered by Union law.”
Based on the information provided above, special reference must be made to the exclusion of matters related to National Security, as referred to in the Directive and also in Article 2.2 of the GDPR, which states that “This Regulation does not apply to the processing of personal data: a) in the exercise of an activity not covered by the scope of Union Law” and Recital 16 “This Regulation does not apply to issues of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms or the free movement of personal data related to activities excluded from the scope of Union Law, such as activities related to national security. It also does not apply to the processing of personal data by Member States in the exercise of activities related to the Union's common foreign and security policy.”
The concept of national security is of recent origin, beginning to be doctrinally used in the 1980s, derived from the emergence of hybrid threats that prevent maintaining the traditional differentiation between defense (to address threats from abroad and the more serious internal threats to the survival of the State itself, as reflected in Article 8 of the Constitution, which assigns the Armed Forces the mission of guaranteeing the sovereignty and independence of Spain, defending its territorial integrity and the constitutional order) and public security (to address internal public order threats, in accordance with Article 104 of the constitutional text, which assigns the Security Forces, under the dependency of the Government, the mission of protecting the free exercise of rights and freedoms and guaranteeing citizen security). The emergence of such threats necessitates a comprehensive conception of Security that ensures the coordinated action of different actors, and although it was an idea that underpinned the definition of national defense contained in Article 2 of Organic Law 6/1980, of July 1, which regulates the basic criteria for national defense and military organization (“National defense is the disposition, integration, and coordinated action of all the moral and material energies and forces of the Nation, in the face of any form of aggression, with all Spaniards required to participate in achieving this end”), in Spain it was not normatively included until Law 36/2015, of September 28, on National Security.
In the European context, the same adaptation has occurred, with the concept of National Security not being included until the Treaty of Lisbon (in force since December 1, 2009). Thus, currently the term is only included in Article 4 of the consolidated version of the Treaty on European Union, which states that national security will remain the responsibility of the Member States.
Legal Office
exclusive to each Member State and in Article 73 of the consolidated version of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union regarding cooperation and coordination in matters of national security. 

On the contrary, there are many provisions of the treaty that maintain the traditional differentiation between public security (Articles 36, 45, 52, 66), or internal security (Article 72) and defense (Articles 2, 222, and 333), without prejudice to the corresponding provisions on the common security and defense policy. 

This concept has also been similarly used by contemporary European regulations and those subsequent to the Lisbon Treaty, such as Directive 2009/81/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 13, 2009, on the coordination of the award procedures for certain works, supply, and service contracts by contracting authorities in the fields of defense and security, and which amends Directives 2004/17/EC and 2004/18/EC, which begins by stating that “National security remains the exclusive responsibility of each Member State, both in the field of defense and security.” 

In any case, since national security is an exception to the application of the Treaties, and according to established case law of the Court of Justice, it must be subject to restrictive interpretation. For these purposes, the extensive jurisprudential doctrine regarding the concept of “essential security interests” contained in the current Article 346 of the TFEU can be cited (Judgment of the CJEU of October 4, 1991, Case C-367/89, Rickardt and Les Accesories Scientifiques, Judgment of the CJEU of May 3, 1994, Case C-328/92, Commission v. Spain, Judgments of the CJEU of January 11, 2000, Case C-285/98, Tanja Kreril v. Bundesrepublik, Judgment of March 28, 1995, Case C-234/93, Evans Medical, Judgment of September 11, 2008, Case C-141/07, Commission v. Germany, Judgment of October 2, 2008, Case C-157/06, Commission v. Italy, Judgment of September 16, 1999, Case C-414/97, Commission v. Spain, Judgment of December 15, 2009, Case C-372/05, Commission v. Germany, Judgment of September 4, 2014, Case Schiebel, Judgment of May 15, 1986, Case 222/84, Johnston, among many others) and can be summarized in the following criteria: 

1) The exceptions established in that article, like all those articles that allow for the non-application of the principles and rules of the treaty, must be subject to strict interpretation. 

2) The burden of proof that the exceptional circumstances justifying the exception actually exist lies with the party seeking to benefit from them. 

3) National authorities have a certain margin of appreciation when adopting the measures they consider necessary to ensure the public security of a Member State. 

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
15
Legal Office
4)
The concept of public security refers both to the internal security of a member State and to its external security.
5)
The existence of a general reservation, inherent to the Treaty, that excludes from the scope of application of Community law any measure adopted for reasons of public security cannot be inferred.
6)
It is up to the national authorities to demonstrate that these provisions are necessary to achieve the invoked objective, and that this objective cannot be achieved through prohibitions or limitations of lesser scope or that affect intra-Community trade to a lesser extent (principle of proportionality). 
In the area of data protection, the restrictive criterion is also supported by the GDPR, which, after excluding its application in cases of national security, as previously noted, establishes its subjection, although limitations may be imposed in cases of State security, defense, and public security (Article 23).
However, taking into account the previously mentioned doctrinal evolution, and with a clear aim of improving the coordination of the different Public Administrations, after stating in its Explanatory Memorandum that “National Security must be considered a shared objective by the different Administrations, state, regional, and local, the constitutional bodies, especially the General Courts, the private sector, and civil society, within the projects of the international organizations of which we are part,” Law 36/2015, of September 28, on National Security defines it in its Article 3 by stating that “For the purposes of this law, National Security shall be understood as the action of the State aimed at protecting the freedom, rights, and well-being of citizens, guaranteeing the defense of Spain and its constitutional principles and values, as well as contributing together with our partners and allies to international security in compliance with the commitments made.” And in its Article 9, it establishes as fundamental components of National Security for the purposes of this law National Defense, Public Security, and Foreign Action, which are regulated by their specific regulations.
Therefore, in the only normative definition of National Security, a broad concept is established to guarantee a comprehensive and coordinated response to the different risks and threats, a broad criterion that is recognized by the National Security Strategy of 2017 when defining National Security policy as “a State policy that starts from a broad conception of security.” However, with regard to the protection of the fundamental right to personal data protection, the concept of National Security must be subject to restrictive interpretation in accordance with the aforementioned jurisprudence, with the CJEU being the one that must shape it for the purposes of the GDPR and the Directive, to guarantee the character.
Legal Office
homogenizing that in matters of protection of the fundamental right to
data protection want to establish such norms. 
Therefore, not being able to exclude the fundamental right to the protection
of personal data in cases of National Security, without prejudice to
the limitations that may be established in its specific regulations, and in order to
establish a coherent regulation of said right, it is emphasized the
necessity, already included in our previous report, to include
references to national defense and national security in section
b) referred to matters not covered by Union law, and to include a section stating that “The processing activities affecting
activities not included within the scope of Union Law shall be governed by the provisions of its specific legislation
if any, and subsidiarily by the provisions of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and Organic Law 3/2018.”
Likewise, taking into account the aforementioned, this Agency
considers it necessary to eliminate the specific exclusion of processing
related to the fight against terrorism referred to in letter e) of
article 2.7
e) Those related to the fight against terrorism that affect National
Security, and those related to serious forms of organized crime
aimed at severely destabilizing the normal functioning of the State
and its Institutions. The processing activities included in this
section shall not be subject to either Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of
the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, or Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, but shall be subject to the provisions of the
regulations on classified matters and information security. However, in these cases, the data controller
shall previously communicate its existence and purpose to the
Supervisory Authority.
In relation to such processing, Report 122/2018 stated the
following:
Finally, reference must be made to the exclusion made in
article 2.4 d) of the Draft Bill, according to which, it shall not apply to
processing “related to the fight against terrorism and serious forms
of organized crime aimed at severely destabilizing the normal
functioning of the State and its institutions.”
Certainly, Organic Law 15/1999 referred in its article 2.2 c),
within the cases excluded from its application, to “files
established for the investigation of terrorism and serious forms of
organized crime.” However, it should be noted that this
exclusion, in the first place, was contained in a regulation prior to the
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
17
Legal Office
adoption and entry into force of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and, consequently, to the inclusion within its scope of application of the so-called Third Pillar.
At the same time, as is obvious, Organic Law 15/1999 was approved at a time when there was no specific Union law that had to be transposed into the law of the Member States regulating, explicitly, the processing of personal data "by the competent authorities, for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection, or prosecution of criminal offenses or enforcement of criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention against threats to public security," given that the processing of data related to the fight against terrorism and serious organized crime fully fits the purpose just reproduced and established in Article 1.1 of Directive 2016/680.
Certainly, as indicated in relation to classified matters, Recital 14 allows for the exclusion from the regime of the Directive of processing related to "national security." However, in the absence of a univocal concept of the same, it is also not acceptable to establish a generic formula that, de facto, could exclude from the application of the Directive and, consequently, from its transposition norm the processing of data related to the fight against terrorism and organized crime, on the grounds that its objective is to severely destabilize the normal functioning of the State and its institutions.
This is so because the generality of these concepts, combined with the broad concept of organized crime, makes it possible for the competent authorities to determine almost freely when to apply the provisions of the Draft Law and when not to apply them.
At the same time, a restrictive interpretation of the application of data protection norms in relation to these treatments would lead to the conclusion that treatments such as those regulated by Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the use of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data for the prevention, detection, investigation, and prosecution of terrorism and serious crime, would not be subject to Union law (as this is the only admissible cause for exclusion), given the purposes described in Article 6 of that norm, linked to the fight against terrorism and organized crime. In this regard, Recital 8 of this last Directive recalls that "The effective use of PNR data, for example, by comparing PNR data with various databases on c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
18
Legal Office
Persons and objects sought are necessary to prevent, detect, investigate, and effectively prosecute terrorism and serious crimes, thereby reinforcing internal security, gathering evidence, and, where applicable, discovering the accomplices of criminals and dismantling criminal networks. 

For this reason, it is not possible to consider that the treatments included in Article 2.4 d) of the Draft Bill submitted for report are excluded from its scope of application, as their purpose is “the prevention, investigation, detection, or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, including protection and prevention against threats to public security.” This implies that the exclusion contained in Article 2.4 d) must be removed from the text submitted for report.

Indeed, as noted in the previous report, data processing in the context of the fight against terrorism falls within the scope of application of the Directive, which, as indicated, aims to ensure the effectiveness of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation, with terrorism being one of the areas of particular gravity referred to in Article 83 of the TFEU.

The new text limits the exclusion to treatments “related to the fight against terrorism that affect National Security.” In this regard, the National Security Strategy of 2017, based on a broad conception of the concept of security, includes among the “Threats and Challenges to National Security” terrorism, primarily of a jihadist nature, while also highlighting the growing international link between organized crime and terrorism. However, it should be noted that it also includes other types of threats, such as organized crime and espionage, which are also classified in the Penal Code, and which are not excluded from the scope of application of the Directive, nor is this generally proposed in the text submitted. Precisely, the Directive aims to regulate the processing of personal data in relation to different crimes, allowing greater flexibility in areas such as purposes, bases of legitimacy, rights of the data subjects, or international data transfers.

Therefore, as has been indicated, personal data processing derived from the fight against terrorism is generally included within the scope of application of community regulations, which have even approved specific rules in this regard, such as the aforementioned PNR Directive. Only in the exceptional case that a specific situation is understood to affect National Security, in accordance with the previously indicated restrictive interpretation, would it be excluded from the application of the Organic Law by virtue of the exclusion related to National Security, in the same way that those subject to regulations on classified matters would also be excluded from it, which is why this Agency considers that letter e) of Article 2.7 of the Draft Bill should be removed.

VI
Finally, Article 2 in its section 8 maintains the provision, already included in the initial text, regarding subjects to whom the legal system imposes a specific duty of cooperation with the competent authorities:
8. The treatments carried out by subjects to whom the legal system imposes a specific duty of cooperation with the competent authorities for the fulfillment of the purposes established in Article 1 shall be governed by the provisions of the norm that establishes such obligation and by Chapters III, VII, and VIII of this organic law, with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, and its implementing provisions being applicable in a supplementary manner.

In this regard, in Report 122/2018, this Agency reasoned as follows:
Regarding this provision, it should be indicated that the processing of data carried out by entities subject to the General Data Protection Regulation will be governed by it, along with the regulations that adapt domestic law to its provisions. Certainly, Article 6.1 c) of the regulation enables the processing of personal data when it is provided for in a provision with the rank of law, but this does not imply that such provision displaces the provisions of the Regulation concerning the processing carried out by that controller.

Thus, it is not permissible for the national legislator to establish restrictions regarding the attention to rights in relation to the processing carried out by the controller, without prejudice to those that may arise once the data is communicated to the competent authorities when the right is exercised before them. Similarly, entities subject to the scope of application of the Regulation are also subject to the regime of claims, liability, and sanctions imposed by it, without it being possible to consider that regarding the processing originally carried out by the controller, the rules of the Regulation will not apply.
Legal Office
In this regard, Recital 11 of the Directive states that  
“It is therefore appropriate that these areas be regulated by a directive that establishes specific rules regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting, or prosecuting criminal offenses or enforcing criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention against threats to public security. Among these competent authorities, not only public authorities such as judicial authorities, the police, or other security forces and bodies should be included, but also any other body or entity to which the law of the Member State has entrusted the exercise of authority and public competencies for the purposes of this Directive. When such a body or entity processes personal data for purposes other than those provided for in this Directive, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 applies. Thus, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 applies in cases where a body or entity collects personal data for other purposes and proceeds to process it for the fulfillment of a legal obligation to which it is subject. For example, for the purposes of investigating, detecting, or prosecuting criminal offenses, financial institutions retain certain personal data that they process themselves and only provide such personal data to the competent national authorities in specific cases and in accordance with the law of the Member State. Any body or entity that processes personal data on behalf of the aforementioned authorities within the scope of this Directive must be bound by a contract or other legal act and by the applicable provisions for data processors under this Directive, while the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 remains unchanged for the processing of personal data by data processors outside the scope of this Directive.”  
In the same vein, Recital 34 of the Directive adds  
“The processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting, or prosecuting criminal offenses or enforcing criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention against threats to public security, must encompass any operation or set of operations with personal data or sets of personal data carried out for such purposes, whether automated or not, and includes the collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or modification, retrieval, consultation, use, comparison or combination, restriction of processing, erasure, or destruction of data. In particular, the rules of this Directive must apply to the transmission of personal data for the purposes of this Directive to a recipient that...  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
21
Legal Office
is not subject to the same. By "recipient," it should be understood as any natural or legal person, public authority, service, or other body to which the competent authority communicates personal data lawfully. If the personal data was initially collected by a competent authority for any of the purposes provided for in this Directive, the processing of such data for purposes other than those provided for in this Directive shall be governed by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, provided that such processing is authorized by Union or Member State law. In particular, the rules of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 must apply to the transmission of personal data for purposes not provided for within the scope of this Directive. For the processing of personal data by a recipient who is not a competent authority or who is acting as such in the sense of this Directive and to whom a competent authority has lawfully communicated personal data, the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 shall apply. In applying this Directive, Member States must also be able to specify the application of the rules of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, subject to the conditions established therein."

The example mentioned in Recital 11 is expressive in clearly indicating that the processing carried out by the entity obliged to communicate the data to a competent authority is subject to the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation and not to those of the Directive, without prejudice to the fact that once the data has been communicated to the competent authority, the provisions of the Directive will apply to that processing, but without that application implying that the obliged entity is subject to the provisions of the latter, since the communication will have been carried out under the protection of Article 6.1(c) of the regulation.

In short, the acceptance of a provision such as the one proposed would imply a limitation of the rights of the data subjects whose data were subject to processing, not only because the Regulation recognizes rights that are not regulated by the Directive, but also because the Directive establishes a more flexible regime for limiting those rights, reflected in Article 16 of the draft, which does not respect the requirements established in Article 23 of the regulation for the legislator to limit the exercise of the aforementioned rights, given that Article 23.2 enumerates a series of requirements that the Law must meet, which are not provided for in the Directive. Therefore, this Agency insists on the need to eliminate Article 2.8 of the Draft Bill.

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
22

                                                           Legal Office
VII  
Article 3 of the Draft Bill has incorporated the observation made by this Agency regarding the definitions of the Directive, establishing a general reference to what is established in the GDPR. However, the generic reference should eliminate the mention of the definition of competent authorities, for which a specific definition is established in Article 2.3 of the Draft Bill, as well as regarding the data controller, which is defined in section 2 of Article 3 itself. 

Furthermore, the reference to the definition of consent is not appropriate, as it does not constitute a legal basis for the processing of personal data by competent authorities (Recitals 35 and 37 of the Directive).

VIII  
Article 4 outlines the principles of processing in accordance with what is indicated by the Directive. However, as indicated in Report 122/2018, Article 4.4 of the same establishes that the data controller "will be responsible and able to demonstrate" compliance with those principles, which is why section 4 of Article 4 of the Draft Bill must be modified to indicate that "The data controller must ensure and be able to demonstrate compliance with what is established in this article," thereby fulfilling the principle of proactive responsibility that has become the cornerstone of the new regime for the protection of personal data in the Union.

IX  
Article 5 regulates "Collaboration with competent authorities," which is a provision that, as indicated in Report 122/2018, "does not transpose any provision of the Directive, and can be considered a sort of general clause for the collection of data by competent authorities." In this regard, the aforementioned report recalled the doctrine of the AEPD concerning the communication of data to the Security Forces and Corps in cases where they carry out their actions as judicial police and concluded that "Consequently, it is proposed to eliminate Article 4 of the Draft Bill submitted for report or to modify it, incorporating into the provisions currently included the requirements that this Spanish Agency for Data Protection has been demanding for the transmission of data to the Security Forces and Corps when they carry out judicial police activities, limiting the cases of transfer to this case."

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
23
Legal Office
The new text submitted has chosen to maintain the provision, although it has proceeded to a new regulation of this duty of collaboration in which the observations made by this Agency have been partially incorporated:

Article 5. Collaboration with the competent authorities.
1. Public administrations, including tax and social security administrations, in accordance with their respective legislation, as well as any natural or legal person, shall provide the judicial authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Judicial Police with the data, reports, background information, and supporting documents that they request and that are necessary for the investigation or prosecution of criminal offenses or for the execution of penalties. The request from the competent authority must be concrete and specific.
2. In other cases, public administrations, unless judicial authorization is legally required to collect the data, reports, background information, and supporting documents, as well as any natural or legal person, shall provide them to the competent authorities that request them, provided that they are necessary for the prevention, detection, and investigation of criminal offenses and for the prevention and protection against a real and serious danger to public safety. The request from the competent authority must be concrete and specific and contain the justification that proves its relation to the aforementioned cases.
3. The provisions of the previous sections shall not apply when judicial authorization is legally required to collect the data necessary for the purposes of Article 1.
4. The interested party shall not be informed of the transmission of their data to the competent authorities in the cases of sections 1 and 2, in order to guarantee the investigative activity.
5. For the same purpose, those subjects to whom the legal system imposes a specific duty of collaboration with the competent authorities for the fulfillment of the purposes established in Article 1 shall not inform the interested party of the transmission of their data to such authorities.

In this regard, this Agency insists on the advisability of eliminating the provision, which does not correspond with the transposed Directive and whose inclusion in the Preliminary Draft causes other types of distortions, as will be seen later when analyzing the sanctioning regime. However, if it were decided to maintain it with the new wording, as can be observed, a distinction has been made between the duty of collaboration with the judicial authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Judicial Police, on one hand, and collaboration with the other competent authorities on the other, a distinction that this Agency values positively, given the context.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
24
Legal Office
different competencies that the legal system attributes to various authorities, as the former act in the judicial sphere and there are additional guarantees for the protection of the fundamental right to personal data protection arising from the intervention of the judicial authority or the Public Prosecutor's Office. 
Regarding collaboration with judicial authorities (of the criminal jurisdiction), the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judicial police (when the latter acts to comply with the actions ordered by the Judicial Authority or the Public Prosecutor's Office) must first adhere to what is established in their specific regulations, as previously analyzed and outlined in sections 5 and 6 of Article 2 of the Draft Bill, which establish rules regarding the content and motivation of judicial and Public Prosecutor's Office resolutions. 
However, concerning the functions assigned to the judicial police in Article 549.1.a) of the LOPJ, directly aimed at investigating criminal acts and apprehending the alleged perpetrators, which will be carried out prior to the initiation of the corresponding criminal proceedings, the purpose of the latter being precisely to determine the necessary elements of conviction for such initiation to proceed, it is the obligation of the Judicial Police to immediately inform the Judicial Authority or the Public Prosecutor's Office of the facts. It is at this point that the doctrine of this Agency regarding such actions, as referred to in Report 122/2018, must be taken into account, which proposes the following wording:
1. Public administrations, including tax and social security administrations, in accordance with their respective legislation, as well as any natural or legal person, shall provide the judicial authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Judicial Police with the data, reports, background information, and supporting documents that they request and that are necessary for the investigation or prosecution of criminal offenses or for the execution of penalties. The request from the judicial police, in the event of exercising the functions assigned to it by Article 549.1.a) of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, must be concrete and specific.
However, regarding collaboration with the other competent authorities regulated in section 2, it must be taken into account that the specific regulations of each of them govern the duty of collaboration with them, as occurs, for example, in Article 7 of Organic Law 4/2015, of March 30, on the protection of citizen security, Articles 93 to 95 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, General Tax Law, or Article 48 of Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
25
Legal Office
of the financing of terrorism, regulations that sometimes establish additional guarantees for the processing of personal data. Occasionally, this guarantee may consist of the necessary judicial authorization, while at other times different types of guarantees are established in accordance with the principles of personal data protection, to duly ensure proportionality in access to information, such as, for example, limiting the type of data or the severity of the crimes concerning which such access will proceed.

In this regard, there are cases in which the legal system requires judicial authorization for access to data, as occurs in Law 25/2007, of October 18, on the retention of data related to electronic communications and public communications networks, whose Article 1 states that “this Law aims to regulate the obligation of operators to retain the data generated or processed in the context of the provision of electronic communications services or public communications networks, as well as the duty to transfer such data to authorized agents whenever they are requested through the corresponding judicial authorization for the purposes of detecting, investigating, and prosecuting serious crimes contemplated in the Penal Code or in special criminal laws.”

Precisely, the lack of guarantee of prior judicial control was what led the CJEU (Judgment Digital Rights Ireland) to annul Directive 2006/24/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of March 15, 2006, on the retention of data generated or processed in relation to the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or public communications networks and by which Directive 2002/58/EC is amended, concluding that, although the aims pursued are of general interest, it does not provide sufficient measures or guarantees to prevent exceeding the limits of the principle of proportionality or to avoid abuse in the access to and use of data by national authorities when investigating serious crimes that justify the intrusion, highlighting that “In particular, Directive 2006/24 does not establish any objective criteria that allow limiting the number of persons who have authorization for access to and subsequent use of the retained data to what is strictly necessary considering the pursued objective. In particular, access to the data retained by the competent national authorities is not subject to prior control carried out, either by a judicial body or by an autonomous administrative agency, whose decision aims to limit access to the data and its use to what is strictly necessary to achieve the pursued objective and occurs as a result of a motivated request from such authorities presented within the framework of prevention, detection, or prosecution of crimes. Nor has a specific obligation been established for Member States to impose such limitations.”  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
26
Legal Office
Invoking said judicial doctrine, this Agency reported unfavorably on the amendment of Article 43.3 of Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism with the aim of eliminating the necessary judicial or Public Prosecutor's authorization for access to the financial ownership file by the Security Forces and Corps. In Report 41/2018, the following was noted:

This raises significant issues from the perspective of the application of personal data protection regulations, taking into account the doctrine established by the Court of Justice of the European Union regarding the possible mass processing of data for its provision to the competent authorities for the prevention, investigation, ascertainment, and prosecution of crimes.

Indeed, the Court has had the opportunity to rule on the compliance with Union Law, and particularly with Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, of a derived Union law, Directive 2006/24/EC, which allowed operators to retain traffic data generated by subscribers and users of electronic communications for communication to the competent authorities for the detection, prevention, investigation, and prosecution of serious crimes, considering that such a measure violates these provisions, declaring it invalid (judgment of April 8, 2014, Joined Cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights Ireland and others).

Subsequently, in its judgment of December 21, 2016 (Joined Cases C-2013/15 and C-698/15, Tele2 Sverige AB and others), the Court analyzed whether the national transposition rules of the aforementioned Directive 2006/24/EC could be considered compliant with Union Law, finding that there was no such compliance in a rule that provided for the generalized and indiscriminate collection of data and did not subject access to the same to prior administrative and judicial control.

Regarding the first of the mentioned issues, paragraph 94 of the judgment recalled that “in accordance with Article 52, paragraph 1, of the Charter, any limitation on the exercise of the rights and freedoms recognized by it must be established by law and respect its essential content,” adding that paragraph 96 states that “the respect for the principle of proportionality is also derived from the repeated case law of the Court of Justice, according to which the protection of the fundamental right to respect for private life at the Union level requires that exceptions to the protection of personal data and limitations of that protection do not exceed what is necessary.”
Legal Cabinet
strictly necessary (judgments of December 16, 2008, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi and Satamedia, C-73/07, EU:C:2008:727, paragraph 56; of November 9, 2010, Volker und Markus Schecke and Eifert, C-92/09 and C-93/09, EU:C:2010:662, paragraph 77; Digital Rights, paragraph 52, and of October 6, 2015, Schrems, C-362/14, EU:C:2015:650, paragraph 92)”.
Having stated the above, according to paragraph 100, “the interference that a regulation of this type represents in the fundamental rights recognized in Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter is significant and must be considered particularly serious.” It adds in paragraph 103 that “while it is true that the effectiveness of the fight against serious crime, especially organized crime and terrorism, may largely depend on the use of modern investigative techniques, this general interest objective, however fundamental it may be, cannot alone justify that a national regulation establishing the generalized and indiscriminate retention of all traffic and location data should be considered necessary for the purposes of such a fight (see, by analogy, regarding Directive 2006/24, the judgment Digital Rights, paragraph 51).”
It is thus concluded that “a national regulation such as that contested in the main proceedings exceeds, therefore, the limits of what is strictly necessary and cannot be considered justified in a democratic society, as required by Article 15, paragraph 1, of Directive 2002/58, in relation to Articles 7, 8, 11, and 52, paragraph 1, of the Charter (paragraph 107), while being in accordance with Union Law ‘a regulation that allows, preventively, the selective retention of traffic and location data for the purposes of combating serious crime, provided that the retention of the data is limited to what is strictly necessary in relation to the categories of data to be retained, the means of communication to which they refer, the affected persons, and the established retention period’ (paragraph 108), for which the national norm ‘must establish, first of all, clear and precise rules that regulate the scope and application of a data retention measure of this type and that establish minimum requirements so that the persons whose data has been retained have sufficient guarantees to effectively protect their personal data against the risks of abuse. It must indicate, in particular, under what circumstances and according to what requirements a preventive data retention measure may be adopted, ensuring that such a measure is limited to what is strictly necessary (see, by analogy, regarding Directive 2006/24, the judgment Digital Rights, paragraph 54 and cited case law)’ (paragraph 109). Paragraph 11 states that the delimitation of the affected group ‘can be guaranteed...’
Legal Office
through a geographic criterion when the competent national authorities consider, based on objective elements, that there is a high risk of preparation or commission of such crimes in one or more geographic areas.”

On the other hand, regarding the second of the issues raised; that is, the one related to independent prior judicial or administrative control, the Court states in paragraph 116 that “in relation to the respect of the principle of proportionality, national legislation that regulates the requirements under which electronic communications service providers must grant competent national authorities access to retained data must ensure, in accordance with what is expressed in paragraphs 95 and 96 of this judgment, that such access only occurs within the limits of what is strictly necessary.”

It will be for the Court to determine “the national law that must establish the requirements under which electronic communications service providers must grant such access. However, the national legislation in question cannot be limited to requiring that access responds to any of the objectives contemplated in Article 15, paragraph 1, of Directive 2002/58, not even that of combating serious crime. Indeed, such national legislation must also establish the material and procedural requirements that regulate the access of competent national authorities to retained data (see, by analogy, regarding Directive 2006/24, the Digital Rights judgment, paragraph 61)” (paragraph 118).

Paragraph 120 concludes that “To practically ensure full compliance with these requirements, it is essential that access by competent national authorities to retained data is subject, in principle, except in cases of duly justified urgency, to prior control by a judicial body or an independent administrative entity, and that the decision of this judicial body or entity is made following a motivated request from those authorities, presented, in particular, within the framework of prevention, discovery, or criminal proceedings (see, by analogy, regarding Directive 2006/24, the Digital Rights judgment, paragraph 62; see also, by analogy, in relation to Article 8 of the ECHR, ECtHR, January 12, 2016, Szabó and Vissy v. Hungary, CE:ECHR:2016:0112JUD003713814, §§ 77 and 80).”

IX
The doctrine that has just been highlighted requires that the mass processing of data for the prosecution of crime be clearly delimited from a threefold perspective: on the one hand, the data subject to processing must be minimized; on the other, the cases in which access to the data may occur must be limited, specifying, for example, the nature of the crimes whose seriousness justifies that access; and finally, there must be control, which in the case of Spain should be judicial, prior to the actual access to the information.

The text now under analysis would indeed comply with the first of the mentioned requirements, as it minimizes, in correlation with the projected Article 32 bis of the Directive, the amount of data that will be incorporated into the financial ownership file.

At the same time, in its currently valid wording, the analyzed norm, Article 43 of Law 10/2010, would also comply with the remaining requirements demanded by jurisprudence, as access is limited in principle to the prevention, investigation, and prosecution of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and judicial or Prosecutor's Office authorization is required for the data to be accessible by the Security Forces and Corps.

However, the text now submitted for report alters the two guarantees that have just been mentioned.

Thus, first, an expansion of the purpose of the file to the prosecution of crimes preceding money laundering or the financing of terrorism is provided, without specifying whether the investigation carried out for these preceding crimes is independent of the one that is actually the subject of the Law and constituted the initial purpose of the processing.

In this way, access to the file could practically occur in any case of investigation of crimes with economic content, regardless of whether or not there was an investigation regarding the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, since if this were linked to the preceding crimes, it would not be necessary to carry out an expansion of the purpose of the file in the legal text.

Similarly, and even more evidently, all reference to prior judicial or prosecutorial control prior to access to the file disappears from paragraph 3 of the text, and it is not even indicated that the Security Forces and Corps accessing the data will do so in their capacity as judicial police.

This leads to two necessary consequences to ensure the compliance of the provision with the jurisprudence that has been analyzed previously: on the one hand, the reference to preceding crimes must be removed, maintaining the currently valid text and, on the other hand,
Legal Office
Another, the prior judicial or fiscal control for access must be added to section 3, in the terms currently set forth in Law 10/2010. 

On the other hand, in Report 35/2018, regarding the Draft Organic Law on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation, and prosecution of terrorism and serious crimes, the Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the use of passenger name record (PNR) data for the prevention, detection, investigation, and prosecution of terrorism and serious crime is incorporated into Spanish law. This directive regulates, according to its Article 1.1, the transfer by airlines of PNR data from flights outside the EU and the processing of this data, including its collection, use, and retention by member states, as well as the exchange of such data between those member states. It stated the following:

IX
Article 9 of the Draft refers to the competent authorities, following the provisions established in Article 7 of the PNR Directive. To this end, subsection 1 enumerates these authorities, subsection 2 refers to the requirements for requests that must be addressed to the UIP, Article 4 limits the purposes of data processing, and subsection 5 refers to the rights of the data subject concerning automated decisions made by the competent authorities.

In relation to this point, reference must be made to subsection 2 of Article 9, which states, “Requests for data made by the competent authorities shall be duly justified and based on sufficient grounds. In no case shall mass and unfounded requests be accepted.”

It has already been indicated earlier that the systematics of the PNR Directive places this provision among the obligations of the UIP, which must not accept mass data requests and must assess the justification of those directed to it. The Draft, on the contrary, places these provisions in the article dedicated to the competent authorities.

The question that should nonetheless be raised, in light of the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the rulings in the cases of Digital Rights Ireland and Tele2 Sverige, is whether the only formal requirements that must be imposed on requests are that they be “duly justified and based on sufficient grounds” or whether the existence of some type of additional formal requirement would be necessary.

To this end, it should not be forgotten that, as has been indicated throughout this report, and as is evident from the jurisprudence just mentioned, the processing carried out by the UIP, which will collect information from all international flights as well as from certain national flights established, constitutes a clear intrusion into the fundamental rights of the passengers and crew to whom the data refers, and particularly, their fundamental right to the protection of personal data.

Evidently, there is nothing to object to requests made by the judicial authority or the Public Prosecutor's Office, currently supported by Article 11.2 d) of Organic Law 15/1999 and in the new regulatory framework regarding the legal obligation referred to in Article 6.1 c) of Regulation 2016/679.

The issue arises in the remaining cases, where the existence of some type of additional requirement prior to access to the data would be necessary.

Thus, this Agency, regarding the Security Forces and Corps, both state and regional, has indicated that it could be possible, without the need for express judicial authorization, to access personal data necessary for them to perform their judicial police functions, provided that a series of requirements that have been repeatedly pointed out are met, among which the subsequent communication of the data to the judicial bodies or the Public Prosecutor's Office is essential.

Considering the above, it should be questioned whether it would not be necessary to establish some additional requirement for a PNR data request to be carried out by the Security Forces and Corps.

Therefore, if the proposed wording were accepted, it would imply recognizing a generic duty of cooperation that would nullify the guarantees, distinct from judicial authorization, that the national legislator may have established in the regulations to ensure the effectiveness of the right to the protection of personal data.
Legal Office
Therefore, it is deemed necessary for the duty of collaboration to be related to what is provided for in the specific regulations. Likewise, the reference to the requirement of judicial authorization should be removed, as it is included in section 3, proposing the following wording:

2. Public administrations, as well as any natural or legal persons, shall provide the other competent authorities with the data, reports, background information, and supporting documents that they request, provided that these are necessary for the prevention, detection, and investigation of criminal offenses and for the prevention and protection against a real and serious danger to public safety, in the terms and respecting the guarantees provided for in the specific regulations that apply. The request from the competent authority must be concrete and specific and contain the justification that proves its relation to the indicated cases.

Finally, and taking into account what has already been reported regarding the processing of personal data by subjects to whom the legal system imposes a specific duty of collaboration with the competent authorities when analyzing Article 2.8 of the Draft Bill, the removal of section 5 of Article 5 of the same should be considered.

Therefore, in the opinion of this Agency, Article 5 should be removed and, in the event that it is maintained, it should have the following wording:

Article 5. Collaboration with the competent authorities.
1. Public administrations, including tax and social security administrations, in accordance with their respective legislation, as well as any natural or legal persons, shall provide the judicial authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Judicial Police with the data, reports, background information, and supporting documents that they request and that are necessary for the investigation or prosecution of criminal offenses or for the execution of penalties. The request from the judicial police, in the event of exercising the functions assigned to it by Article 549.1.a) of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, must be concrete and specific and be duly justified.

2. Public administrations, as well as any natural or legal persons, shall provide the other competent authorities with the data, reports, background information, and supporting documents that they request, provided that these are necessary for the prevention, detection, and investigation of criminal offenses and for the prevention and protection against a real and serious danger to public safety, in the terms and respecting the guarantees provided for in the specific regulations that apply. The request from the competent authority must be concrete and specific and contain the justification that proves its relation to the indicated cases.

3. The provisions of the previous sections shall not apply when judicial authorization is legally required to collect the data necessary for the purposes of Article 1.

4. The interested party shall not be informed of the transmission of their data to the competent authorities in the cases of sections 1 and 2, in order to guarantee the investigative activity.

X
Article 6 proceeds with the transposition of Article 5 of the Directive, relating to the retention of personal data, having incorporated the observations made by this Agency regarding the blocking of data and establishing a specific period for the review of the data when such retention beyond the generally established periods in the Draft Bill has been deemed appropriate.

However, the observation regarding the need to establish retention criteria for the data subject to processing by the competent authorities performing police functions has not been included, nor has the adaptation of the retention criteria for jurisdictional files to the regulations that, together with the Draft Bill, will be applicable to them, having opted to remove the criteria established in the initial wording regarding jurisdictional files.

In this regard, as indicated in Report 122/2018, “the wording of the Union provision seems to imply a mandate to the States to establish the criteria for the retention of personal data subject to processing for the purposes provided for in the Directive.” Furthermore, it should be noted that in recent years, the number of rulings from the National Court that uphold appeals filed by individuals regarding the cancellation of their police records has been increasing, making this a good opportunity to clarify the criteria that may be applicable.

In order to establish such criteria, particularly regarding police files, one could start from what is established in Article 22.4 of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data:
Legal Cabinet
4.  The personal data registered for police purposes shall be deleted when they are no longer necessary for the investigations that motivated their storage. For these purposes, special consideration shall be given to the age of the affected individual and the nature of the stored data, the necessity of retaining the data until the conclusion of a specific investigation or procedure, the final judicial resolution, particularly if it is acquittal, the pardon, rehabilitation, and the statute of limitations for liability. 

Furthermore, regarding the actions of the Judicial Police, the criteria maintained by this Agency may also be followed, according to which, in the case of actions carried out within the scope of the powers established in section a) of article 445.1 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, the Judicial Police is obliged to report the facts to the Judicial and Fiscal Authority immediately, and the destruction of the record of the obtained data must proceed once that communication has been made. 

Therefore, article 6 of the Draft Bill should be amended to include specific criteria regarding the retention period of personal data. 

On the other hand, section 2 of article 6 provides that “Exceptionally, once the periods referred to in the previous section have been fulfilled, the data controller may reasonably decide the necessity of retaining the data for a longer time. If no express decision is made in this regard, the data shall be deleted or, as the case may be, blocked.” 

In the opinion of this Agency, the wording of the aforementioned provision, which does not correspond to any provision of the Directive, adds uncertainty to the retention period of the data, as it is unknown what reasons may justify the extension of the period and whether it refers to the same purpose for which the data was obtained or for a subsequent purpose, which should, in any case, be limited to the purposes provided for in article 1. In principle, this provision seems to refer to the retention of data for its processing for a subsequent purpose, which would require the concurrence of the conditions referred to in article 4.2 when regulating subsequent processing, which should be clarified in the provision. Likewise, the information to the interested party regarding such retention should be contemplated, unless there are reasons that justify otherwise.

XI
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
35

                                                           Legal Cabinet
Regarding article 7 of the Draft Bill, it refers, in its new wording, to cases of “criminal infringement or related to the protection and prevention against threats to public safety.” 

In this regard, it is appropriate to bring to mind what has already been stated in Report 122/2018: The purpose of article 6 is to transpose article 7 of the Directive, which refers to the obligation of the data controller to differentiate, to the extent possible, the different categories of data subject to processing for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of criminal infringements or the execution of criminal sanctions, as well as for the protection and prevention against threats to public safety. 

The provision generally responds to what is established in the norm subject to transposition. However, a repeated omission is detected throughout the entire provision, as it refers to “infringements,” while the scope of the Directive refers to “criminal infringements.” 

The omission is not trivial considering that among the objectives of processing, according to article 1 of the Draft Bill, is the prevention and prosecution of threats to public safety, which may give rise to the existence of behaviors classified as administrative infringements. The omission of the reference to the criminal nature of the infringements could allow for an extensive interpretation of the provision that would enable the processing of data of individuals other than the offenders themselves beyond what is permitted by Spanish law, as a norm for their differentiated processing would be enabled. 

For this reason, the term “criminal” or “criminals” should be added to the repeated references that article 6 makes to the “infringements” to which it refers. 

Based on the same arguments, and to avoid extensive interpretations regarding administrative infringements, the reference in article 7.a) of the Draft Bill should be limited exclusively to “criminal infringements.” 

XII
Regarding article 8.2, related to the verification of data quality, a second paragraph has been added in which the indicated is included. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
36
Legal Office
Article 7.2 of the Directive: “As far as possible, in all transmissions of personal data, the necessary information will be added so that the competent receiving authority can assess to what extent the personal data is accurate, complete, and reliable, and to what extent it is up to date.”
However, the wording of the first paragraph of section 2 of Article 8 remains unchanged, regarding which Report 122/2018 stated the following:
2. This means that the Union law establishes a clear, precise, and unconditional mandate that inaccurate, incomplete, or outdated data “shall not be transmitted or made available to third parties.”
In contrast, the Draft Bill provides that such data will not be made available to third parties “without simultaneously transmitting the assessment of its quality, accuracy, and up-to-dateness.”
Without prejudice to the fact that such assessment must be communicated to the recipient in any case, by virtue of Article 7.2 of the Directive, the internal rule would imply, in a literal interpretation of it, an overreach of the Union law, as it seems to suggest that the transmission prohibited by the Directive would be possible as long as an assessment regarding the accuracy and up-to-dateness of the data is provided.
For this reason, a new wording should be given to Article 7.2 of the Draft Bill that unequivocally indicates that if the evaluation of the data determines that it is inaccurate, incomplete, or outdated, the communication of such data to third parties will not proceed, and such communication cannot occur merely by providing the analysis referred to in the provision.
For the reasons outlined in the aforementioned report, and considering the inclusion of the new paragraph in Article 8.2, the reference in the first paragraph to “without simultaneously transmitting the assessment of its quality, accuracy, and up-to-dateness” should be removed.
However, in order to reconcile the proper compliance with the provisions of the Directive in guarantee of the rights of the affected party with the due fulfillment of the objectives of the same, the following alternative wording is proposed, which literally incorporates what is provided in the Directive while establishing a greater guarantee for the interested party, avoiding possible errors:
2. The competent authorities shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that inaccurate, incomplete, or outdated personal data is not transmitted or made available to third parties. In any transmission of data, the assessment of its quality, accuracy, and up-to-dateness shall be simultaneously conveyed.
XIII
Article 9.2 of the Draft Bill has been worded as follows:
2. Any law that regulates the processing of categories of personal data for the purposes included within the scope of this organic law must, at a minimum, identify the categories of personal data and the objectives and purposes of the processing.
In the new wording, the reference contained in the initial text to “personal data” has been replaced by “categories of personal data.” This provision does not correspond to what is stipulated in the Directive, whose Article 8.2 states that “The law of the Member State that regulates processing within the scope of this Directive must indicate at least the objectives of the processing, the personal data that will be subject to it, and the purposes of the processing.” At this point, it should be noted that European law, both in the Directive and in the GDPR, treats the concepts of “categories of data” and “data” differently, so that when it wants to refer to “categories of data,” it does so expressly, as is reflected, for example, in Articles 14.b) and 24.1.d) and h) of the Directive.
In this case, the Directive contains an explicit and concrete mandate, which should not be modified restrictively by the transposition legislation, so the wording initially included in the Draft Bill should be reverted to:
“Any law that regulates the processing of personal data for the purposes included within the scope of this organic law must indicate, at a minimum, the objectives of the processing, the personal data that will be subject to it, and the purposes of the processing.”
XIV
Article 10, concerning “specific conditions for processing,” proceeds to transpose what is provided in Article 9 of the Directive, although it does not include what is stipulated in the first two sections of the same. Regarding the second...
Legal Office
of the sections, relating to processing activities that do not align with the purposes of Article 1, would be included in Article 2 regarding the scope of application of the law. 
However, the first paragraph is not limited exclusively to determining the legal regime applicable to the processing it encompasses, but also adds additional requirements that are not covered elsewhere in the Draft Bill and that refer to the prohibition of further processing for purposes other than those provided for in the Draft Bill, unless authorized by a legal provision, and the obligation that such processing, if carried out, shall be subject to the GDPR:
“Personal data collected by the competent authorities for the purposes established in Article 1, paragraph 1, shall not be processed for purposes other than those established in Article 1, paragraph 1, unless such processing is authorized by Union law or the law of the Member State. When personal data are processed for other purposes, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 shall apply unless the processing is carried out as part of an activity that falls outside the scope of Union law.”
Therefore, the transposition of Article 9.1 of the Directive must proceed, considering that this Agency believes the appropriate place could be Article 4 of the Draft Bill. 
On the other hand, paragraph 2 has been drafted following the suggestion made by this Agency, in order to exemplify, following the Recitals of the Directive, what the specific conditions referred to in the provision may be:
“2. The specific conditions for processing may include, among others, the prohibition of data transmission or its use for purposes other than those for which it was transmitted or, in the case of limitation of the right to information, the prohibition of providing information to the data subject without the prior authorization of the transmitting authority.”
However, as the Directive indicates, those specific conditions can only be those provided for by Union law or the law of the Member State that applies to the competent authority that must transmit the data. 
Therefore, paragraph 2 of Article 10 should be drafted as follows:
“2. The specific conditions for processing must be provided for in Union law or in Spanish legislation and may include, among others, the prohibition of data transmission or its use for purposes other than those for which it was transmitted or, in the case of limitation of the right to information, the prohibition of providing information to the data subject without the prior authorization of the transmitting authority.”
XV
Article 11.1, when defining special categories of data, deviates from the literal wording of Article 10 of the Directive and Article 9.1 of the GDPR, introducing a modification that, in the opinion of this Agency, is substantial. 
Thus, it refers to “genetic or biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person,” while European norms refer to “genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person.” The substitution of the comma in the European norm with the disjunctive conjunction “or” constitutes a modification of the European concept of special categories of data, since genetic data are always considered as such, while biometric data are only considered as such when their processing is aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person.
Therefore, it is proposed to modify the wording of Article 11.1 to reflect what is provided in European legislation: “genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person.”
XVI
Article 12 proceeds with the transposition of Article 11 of the Directive, but deviates from the original wording, with the following text:
1.
No individual automated decisions that produce negative legal effects for the data subject or significantly adversely affect them shall be adopted. These decisions shall not be based solely on automated processing of personal data that includes profiling, unless expressly authorized by a provision with the rank of law or by a norm of Union law. The enabling provision for processing must establish appropriate measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject, including the right to obtain human intervention in the review process of the decision made.
The wording is confusing, concluding that “No individual automated decisions… based solely on automated processing that includes profiling” shall be adopted. It could be understood that automated decisions not based on such processing are indeed permitted.
Legal Office
automated processing is allowed, as long as it is not based on profiling. It also permits the automatic creation of profiles that have legal effects (as long as no automated decisions are made). In fact, the Directive distinguishes in Articles 11.2 and 11.3 between automated decisions and profiles. The wording of the Directive is much clearer, so Article 12.1 should be drafted as follows:  
“Decisions based solely on automated processing, including profiling, that produce negative legal effects for the data subject or significantly affect them, are prohibited, unless expressly authorized by a law or by a regulation of European Union law. The enabling regulation for processing must establish appropriate measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject, including the right to obtain human intervention in the review process of the decision made.”  
On the other hand, in Article 12, subsection 2 of the corresponding Article 11 of the Directive has not been transposed, which requires that automated decisions based on special categories of data require specific safeguards, which are differentiated, simply by being mentioned separately, from the general ones that must apply to any automated decision, considering that, in this case, it does not only refer to rights and freedoms but also includes “the legitimate interests of the data subject.”  
Therefore, a new subsection must be introduced with the following wording:  
“Decisions referred to in subsection 1 of this article shall not be based on the special categories of personal data contemplated in Article 10, unless appropriate measures have been taken to safeguard the rights and freedoms and the legitimate interests of the data subject.”  
XVII  
Regarding Article 13, relating to the general conditions for exercising the rights of data subjects, the various observations made by this Agency have been included, although subsection 6 relating to the request for additional information when the data subject has doubts regarding the identity of the individual making the request has been modified, adding that “If that information is not provided within ten days, the request will be considered withdrawn without the need to issue a resolution to that effect.”  
In this regard, it is pertinent to recall what was previously stated in Report 122/2018 regarding the regulation of the right of access in the then Article 14 and the possibility of considering the request withdrawn in the event that the information referred to was not specified, which has been accepted in Article 15.2 of the new text submitted, removing the reference to withdrawal:  
“This Spanish Agency for Data Protection has repeatedly stated that the exercise by the affected party of the rights established in data protection regulations directly stems from the recognition of said right by Article 18.4 of the Constitution and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, and the right is now also enshrined in Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.  
Thus, except in certain cases where the applicable regulations for a specific processing foresee a special access regime, it is not possible to qualify the exercise of the right through data protection regulations nor, to an even lesser extent, apply the rules of administrative procedure to the exercise and attention of the aforementioned rights.”  
Therefore, applying the same criterion, the phrase “If that information is not provided within ten days, the request will be considered withdrawn without the need to issue a resolution to that effect” must be removed from Article 13.6.  
However, considering that, in this case, doubts about identity would prevent access to the requested information, the inclusion of the following subsection is proposed:  
“The period available to the data controller to provide the information requested by the data subject shall not begin to run until the data subject provides the additional complementary information requested by the controller.”  
XVIII  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
42
Legal Office
The following observation must be made regarding Article 14.2, related to the additional information that, in specific cases, must be provided to the interested party, as indicated in Report 122/2018:

However, paragraph 2 of the aforementioned article states that the information referred to in Article 13.2 of the Directive "may" be provided "taking into account the circumstances of the specific case." 

Article 13.2 of the Directive clearly establishes that "In addition to the information indicated in paragraph 1, Member States shall provide by law that the data controller shall provide the interested party, in specific cases, the following additional information, in order to enable the exercise of their rights." This means that the Union legislator imposes on Member States the obligation to establish the circumstances in which the additional information must be provided mandatorily, and not merely optionally. 

However, the informed text merely states that the information may be provided taking into account the circumstances of the specific case, without establishing, for the benefit of those affected, the circumstances in which the information must unequivocally be provided. Therefore, the circumstances in which the obligation referred to in Article 13.1 of the Draft must be provided mandatorily should be specified.

However, in the new text submitted, not only are the circumstances not identified, for the benefit of those affected, but this burden is placed on the affected party themselves, by introducing the requirement that it be a "reasoned request." 

Therefore, Article 14.2 should be amended, with the legislator specifying the circumstances (that is, the "specific cases") in which the additional information must be provided mandatorily. This also implies the need to eliminate the obligation of the "reasoned request," because it will have been the legislator who established that in certain specific cases "it must" provide such additional information.

XIX
Regarding the provision of remote access means to the affected parties to their data referred to in Article 15.3, the observation made in Report 122/2018 has not been included, in which it was considered necessary, if this possibility was to be maintained, to ensure that in the event that remote access does not provide all the information required by Article 15.1 of the Draft, the interested party has the right to request it.

Therefore, including the duty of information not only the access to the personal data being processed but also to the rest of the information established by the provision itself, Article 15.3 must be completed to ensure that in the event that remote access does not provide all the information required by Article 15.1 of the Draft, the interested party has the right to request it.

XX
In Article 16.3.b, it is added as one of the reasons for not deleting personal data and, instead, limiting its processing, that personal data must be retained "in particular, for security reasons." 

These security reasons, which are not specified, are understood as a specification of the necessary retention for evidentiary purposes. The Directive does not contemplate this exception, so it must be limited to the circumstances in which personal data must be retained for evidentiary purposes, and the phrase "or, in particular, for security reasons" should be removed from paragraph b) of Article 16.3.

XXI
On the other hand, regarding the circumstances in which legitimate limitations to the exercise of the rights of the affected parties are appreciated, Article 17 of the Directive provides that these rights may be exercised "through" the supervisory authority. This guarantee, which is not provided for in the GDPR and derives from the special restrictions established in the Directive, has been transposed in Article 18 of the Draft, although there is an error in it regarding the reference to the articles that would apply, as they do not correspond in the current text with the articles.

Furthermore, this Agency considers it necessary to precisely establish the circumstances in which its application is appropriate, as the Directive does, in order to avoid misunderstandings that may lead to the belief that an interested party can directly access the supervisory authority to exercise their rights "through" it in all cases. In this regard, the transposition of the Directive, collecting the legal circumstances that will allow limiting rights generically, will require in any case a prior assessment by the competent authority taking into account the circumstances of the case, so that neither the interested party nor the supervisory authority can know, a priori, whether the circumstances that legitimize the limitation are present.
Legal Office
In order to precisely define the circumstances in which it will be applicable, avoiding misunderstandings that may lead those affected to believe that they can directly exercise their rights through the control authority, without prior pronouncement from the competent authority, it is considered that the wording of Article 18 should be as follows:
Article 18. Exercise of the rights of the data subject through the data protection authority.
1. In cases where there is a postponement, limitation, or omission of the information referred to in Article 14, a denial of the exercise of the right of access as provided in subsection 17.1, or a limitation on the information that must be provided to the data subject in cases of denial of the rights of rectification and erasure contemplated in Article 16, the data subject may exercise their rights through the control authority. The data controller shall inform the data subject of this possibility.
2. When, pursuant to the provisions of the previous subsection, it is the data protection authority that exercises the rights, it must inform the data subject, at a minimum, of the completion of all necessary verifications or the corresponding review and of their right to file an administrative contentious appeal.
XXII
Article 20 of the Directive, relating to "Data protection by design and by default," refers to "appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymization, designed to apply the principles of data protection, such as data minimization, effectively and to integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing, in such a way that it complies with the requirements of this Directive and protects the rights of the data subjects."
Transposing this provision, Article 21.1 of the Draft Bill has included a final phrase stating that "To the extent possible, pseudonymization or data minimization may be adopted." However, this phrase does not correspond to what is established in the Directive. Pseudonymization, which the GDPR defines as "the processing of personal data in such a way that the data can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject without the use of additional information, provided that such additional information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organizational measures intended to ensure that the personal data are not attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person," is one of the appropriate safeguards that the controller can adopt to ensure that the processing complies with the principles of the Directive, among which is the principle of minimization. In this sense, when Article 20 of the Directive refers to pseudonymization, it does so as an example of "appropriate technical and organizational measures designed to comply with the principles of data protection," and when it refers to data minimization, it does so as an example of those principles.
This distinction is particularly significant, as the principle of data minimization is not discretionary for the controller; it is not something that "to the extent possible, may be adopted," but rather its observance is imperative in all cases for the controller, as stated in Article 4 of the Draft Bill, and its non-compliance is a very serious infringement, according to Article 50.1.a) of the same.
Therefore, the last phrase of Article 21.1 of the Draft Bill must be modified, proposing the following wording:
"To the extent possible, pseudonymization of personal data may be adopted in order to contribute to the application of the principles established in this Law and, in particular, the principle of data minimization."
XXIII
Regarding the need to carry out a data protection impact assessment, the wording contained in Article 28.1 of the Draft Bill (When it is likely that a type of processing will pose a high level of risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, as a result of the use of new technologies or due to its nature, scope, context, or purposes, the data controller shall carry out, prior to processing, an assessment of the impact of the processing operations) does not exactly correspond to that contained in Article 27 of the Directive, which in turn is a literal copy of that included in Article 35.1 of the GDPR (When it is likely that a type of processing, particularly if it uses new technologies, by its nature, scope, context, or purposes, will pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, Member States shall provide that the data controller shall carry out, prior to processing, an assessment of the impact of the processing operations envisaged in the protection of personal data).
Considering that the GDPR is directly applicable to processing operations subject to its scope, and in order to avoid
Legal Office
interpretative issues that may lead to inferring any difference regarding the need for impact assessment, it would be advisable to unify both texts, so that Article 28.1 is drafted in the same way as the Directive and the GDPR:
“When it is likely that a type of processing, particularly if it uses new technologies, by its nature, scope, context, or purposes, poses a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall carry out, prior to processing, an assessment of the impact of the intended processing operations on the protection of personal data.”
XXIV
Article 30.1, following the recommendation made by this Agency, has included a reference to the National Security Scheme:
1. The data controller and the data processor, taking into account the state of the art and the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the levels of risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, shall apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure an adequate level of security, especially regarding the processing of the categories of personal data referred to in Article 11. In particular, they must comply with the measures included in the National Security Scheme according to their technical and budgetary capabilities.
Considering that the competent authorities for the purposes of the Directive are included in Article 77 of the LOPDGDD, they are already subject to the obligation established by the first additional provision.2 of the same:
2. The controllers listed in Article 77.1 of this organic law shall apply to the processing of personal data the corresponding security measures provided for in the National Security Scheme, as well as promote a degree of implementation of equivalent measures in the companies or foundations linked to them subject to private law.
On the other hand, the measures to be adopted will not only be those of the National Security Scheme but also those resulting from the corresponding risk analysis referred to in the provision itself. In this regard, in the Report of this Agency 170/2018, dated November 12, 2018, regarding the functional compatibility of the data protection officer of the GDPR and the security officer of the National Security Scheme, the following was noted:
“Therefore, there is no doubt that the guarantee of the security of personal data acquires special significance regarding its protection, but without being limited exclusively to the field of the security of that information, as the protection of personal data has a much broader scope that encompasses, as we said, a set of principles, rights, and obligations that are much broader.”
And as this Agency has repeatedly reported when analyzing the information security policies of the different ministries, in the event that the measures to be implemented as a result of the risk analysis provided for in the personal data protection regulations are found to be more stringent than those provided for in the National Security Scheme, they should prevail over the latter, in order to adequately comply with what is required by said regulations.
Therefore, the last sentence of Article 30.1 should be drafted as follows:
“In particular, they shall apply to the processing of personal data, at least, the security measures that correspond to those provided for in the National Security Scheme.”
XXV
According to Article 31.1 “The data controllers shall designate a data protection officer. It shall not be mandatory to designate one when the processing of personal data has jurisdictional purposes.”
However, Article 32.1 of the Directive, which is transposed in the aforementioned provision, provides that “Member States may exempt courts and other independent judicial authorities from this obligation when acting in the exercise of their judicial powers.”
Consequently, the wording of the last sentence of Article 31.1 of the Draft Law should be as follows:
“Judicial bodies or the Public Prosecutor's Office shall not be obliged to designate one when the processing of personal data is carried out for jurisdictional purposes.”
Legal Office
XXVI
Chapter V of the Draft Bill addresses the regulation of "Transfers of personal data to third countries that are not members of the European Union or international organizations," generally aligning with the provisions set forth in the Directive, as noted in our Report 122/2018. 
However, it is noteworthy that this is the only Chapter in which, diverging from the provisions of the Directive concerning competent authorities, a distinction is introduced between authority and public official. This differentiation, in the opinion of this Agency, may introduce distortions that could lead to unauthorized transfers under the Directive. The public official is either a competent authority by meeting the requirements established by the Directive and the Draft Bill, or they are not, in which case its provisions do not apply to them. This differentiation may be even more relevant considering that these are transfers to third countries, whose administrative structures may differ significantly from ours. 
For all these reasons, it is deemed necessary that the references contained in Articles 36, 37, 39, and 40 to authorities and public officials, whether Spanish or foreign, be replaced by "competent authorities" in the Draft Bill. 
On the other hand, the wording given to section c) of Article 40.1 of the Draft Bill does not correspond with that of letter c) of Article 39.1 of the Directive, and may lead to interpretative issues. The Draft Bill requires as one of the conditions for exceptional transfers directly to recipients (who do not have to be competent authorities) "That the competent authority making the transfer to a competent authority of a third country for the purposes contemplated in Article 1 considers that such transfer would be ineffective or inadequate, in particular, when the transfer cannot be made within the deadline." However, what the Directive contemplates as a condition for proceeding with the transfer is the assumption that the responsible party making the transfer considers that it would not be effective to do so through the usual channel, which would be through the competent authority in the receiving third country: "the competent authority of the transfer considers that the transfer to a competent authority of the third country for the purposes contemplated in Article 1, section 1, is ineffective or inadequate, especially because it cannot be made within the deadline." 
Therefore, letter c) of Article 40.1 of the Draft Bill should be worded as follows:
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
49

                                                           Legal Office
"That the competent authority making the transfer considers that the transfer to a competent authority of a third country for the purposes contemplated in Article 1 would be ineffective or inadequate, in particular, when the transfer cannot be made within the deadline."
XXVII
Chapter VI of the Draft Bill refers to Data Protection Authorities, transposing Chapter VI of the Directive, which is titled "Independent Control Authorities." Considering that one of the essential characteristics on which the European regime for the protection of personal data pivots is the guarantee of the independence of control authorities, as thoroughly regulated in Article 42 of the Directive, it is deemed essential that this circumstance be reflected in the title of Chapter VI, so that it refers to "Independent Control Authorities." 
Starting from the above, Article 41 begins with the enumeration of these authorities for the purposes of this Organic Law, in which, following the observations made by this Agency, it is limited to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and the regional data protection authorities. 
In this regard, and concerning the legal regime applicable to control authorities, Report 122/2018 stated the following: 
Starting from the above, the regime of the two control authorities for the purposes of the Directive; that is, the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and the regional data protection authorities, including the obligations of cooperation between them, is already reflected in Title VII of the Organic Law Project on the protection of personal data and, in the case of regional authorities, in their creation and regulation norms. 
Likewise, both the Spanish Agency and the regional authorities are subject to the provisions established in Article 59 of the General Data Protection Regulation, according to which "Each control authority shall prepare an annual report on its activities, which may include a list of types of reported infringements and types of measures adopted in accordance with Article 58, section 2. The reports shall be transmitted to the national Parliament, to the Government, and to the... 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
50
Legal Office
other authorities designated under the law of the member states. They will be made available to the public, the Commission, and the Committee.”

Thus, it would not be necessary to establish more specific provisions in the aforementioned Article 51 than those related to the application of what is established in Title VII of the Project and the regional regulations applicable to the regional authorities. 

In this regard, the following wording was proposed: “These authorities shall be subject to the provisions of Title VII of Organic Law xxx/2018, of XX of XX and its creation regulations, as well as those that develop the same.” However, the new text submitted has not included this observation, establishing specific provisions regarding the legal regime applicable to them: 

These authorities shall be governed by this organic law, by their specific regulations, by Articles 52 to 54 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, and by its implementing provisions.

These authorities shall cooperate in the exercise of their functions in accordance with the provisions of Articles 58 and 59 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5. 

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection shall act as the representative of the data protection authorities in the European Data Protection Committee. 

3. The data protection authorities shall prepare an annual report on their activities, which shall be public and must be communicated to the General Courts, the Government, and, where applicable, to the Legislative Assemblies and Governments of the Autonomous Communities, the European Commission, and the European Data Protection Committee, as well as to the Ombudsman and analogous regional institutions. 

Regarding the reference to the Organic Law itself—that is, to the one that implements Directive 2016/680, this organic law shall apply to the treatments subject to it, as occurs, for example, in relation to the functions and powers regulated in its Articles 42 and 43, in which the observations made by this Agency have been taken into account, although it is deemed appropriate to modify Article 43.b) to include the reference to the order of communication to the data subject of the personal data security breach, in order to incorporate into the functions of the control authorities the competence attributed to them by Article 32.4 of the Draft Law. 

However, concerning the rest of its legal regime, given that there is a general norm (the LOPDGDD) that regulates it, including the necessary guarantee of its independence previously mentioned, and in order to avoid duplications and even interpretation problems, it is emphasized that it is advisable for Article 41 to include only the reference to said general norm (the LOPDGDD) and, regarding the regional authorities, to their creation regulations, proposing the following wording: 

“Such authorities shall be governed by this Organic Law regarding the treatments subject to it, and by what is established in Title VII of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, and in their creation regulations, as well as by what is established by the regulations that in turn develop these.” 

Finally, the comments regarding the competencies attributed to the General Council of the Judiciary by the LOPJ made in our Report 122/2018 should be recalled: 

It is necessary, above all, to clarify the enumeration carried out by the Draft Law, taking into account that Article 45.2 of the Directive establishes that “Member States shall provide that each supervisory authority shall not be competent to control the processing operations carried out by judicial bodies in the exercise of their judicial function. Member States may provide that their supervisory authority shall not be competent to control the processing operations carried out by other independent judicial authorities in the exercise of their judicial function.” 

Thus, Recital 80 of the Directive reminds us that “Although this Directive also applies to the activities of national judicial bodies and other judicial authorities, the competence of supervisory authorities should not cover the processing of personal data when judicial bodies act in the exercise of their judicial function, in order to ensure the independence of judges in the performance of their duties. This exception should be limited to judicial activities in trials and should not apply to other activities in which judges may be involved, in accordance with the law of the Member State. Member States may also provide that the competence of the supervisory authority does not cover the...
Legal Office
treatment of personal data carried out by other independent judicial authorities in the exercise of their jurisdictional function, for example, the public prosecutor's office. In any case, compliance with the rules of this Directive by the jurisdictional bodies and other independent judicial authorities must always be subject to independent supervision in accordance with Article 8, paragraph 3, of the Charter.” This means that without prejudice to the powers attributed to the General Council of the Judiciary by Article 236 nonies of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, said Council cannot be considered as a competent authority for the purposes of the Directive subject to transposition by the Draft Law submitted for report. 
This requires that the provision enumerating the data protection authorities for the purposes of the Law should take this provision into account, in order not to subject the General Council of the Judiciary to the general regime of the Law but to establish in any case that the enumeration of the control authorities is carried out without prejudice to the powers granted to the General Council of the Judiciary by the Organic Law of the Judiciary.
Therefore, in order to clarify the competence regime, it would be advisable to add a final paragraph stating that “The provisions of the previous paragraph are understood without prejudice to the powers regarding data processing for jurisdictional purposes attributed to the General Council of the Judiciary by Article 236 nonies of Organic Law 6/1985, of July 1.”
XXVIII
Article 56 of the Directive establishes that “Member States shall provide that any person who has suffered material or immaterial damage as a result of an unlawful processing operation or any act that violates the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive has the right to receive compensation from the controller or any competent authority under the law of the Member State for the damages suffered.”
Article 46 of the Draft Law, transposing this mandate, has included in it the liability regime of the control authorities, which is already established in the regulations governing them and to which the Draft Law should refer, in accordance with what has already been indicated in the previous paragraph, taking into account that the aforementioned provision of the Directive refers to unlawful processing and acts contrary to the Directive carried out by controllers and competent authorities.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
53

                                                           Legal Office
Therefore, the reference to the control authorities should be removed from Article 46 of the Draft Law.
XXIX
Chapter VIII of the Draft Law regulates the sanctioning regime, starting in its Article 48 with the enumeration of the responsible subjects. In this regard, Report 122/2018 already pointed out the following:
Regarding the delimitation of the obligated subjects, Article 50 of the Draft refers, in addition to the controllers and processors of the processing, to “the representatives of the controllers or processors not established in the territory of the European Union” and “the rest of the natural or legal persons obligated by this Organic Law.”
Regarding the representatives, while it is true that it could exceptionally occur that a processor is not established in the territory of the Union, this circumstance will never be possible in the case of controllers, as only competent authorities, which by definition are located in that territory, will have this consideration, belonging in any case to the public sector. 
Furthermore, regarding the remaining subjects, it is not possible to determine who they could be, given that the provisions of the Directive, and consequently of the Draft Law, would apply to the competent authorities in accordance with its Article 2.2 and, at most, to their processors.
For all these reasons, it would be appropriate to remove paragraph d) from Article 50 of the Draft, as well as the reference to the controller in the case of paragraph c).
However, this observation has not been included in the new text, so it must be insisted upon, given that the Directive does not apply extraterritorially, meaning that controllers or processors not established do not have to appoint a representative, as contemplated in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD. Moreover, and more importantly, the controllers to whom the Directive is addressed are public authorities of each of the Member States. In any case, there could be a situation of private processors that may not be established in the EU. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
54
Legal Office
And since the only obligated subjects under the Directive are the controllers and processors of data, the reference made to other natural and legal persons in its letter d) must be removed, as indicated when analyzing Article 5 and which will be addressed again later, as they derive exclusively from the introduction of an obligation to collaborate in a personal data protection regulation that produces distortions regarding its application. 
Therefore, the removal of letter d) from Article 48 should proceed, as well as the reference to the data controller in the case of letter c).

XXX
Regarding the classification of infringing behaviors, the new text submitted has not accepted this Agency's observation regarding the advisability of referring to the behaviors classified in Organic Law 3/2018, establishing a uniform regime and guaranteeing legal certainty for operators. 
Although this Agency maintains the advisability of including in the Draft a reference to Organic Law 3/2018, the possibility of classifying specific behaviors is expressly included in Article 57 of the Directive, which states, “Member States shall establish rules on sanctions applicable to infringements of the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all necessary measures to ensure their enforcement. The sanctions imposed shall be effective, proportionate, and dissuasive.” 
However, in such classification, there should be a consistency regarding the behaviors classified in the general data protection regime, which may be modulated in consideration of the specificities of the treatments in question, and taking into account, as has been pointed out in the successive reports of this Agency, that the regime of the Directive is more restrictive than that provided for in the GDPR. 
In this regard, concerning very serious infringements under Article 50, given the greater limitation of the fundamental right to data protection that the regime of the Directive entails, its regime cannot be more lenient for the infringer than that established generally. In this respect, since the principles and guarantees established in Article 4 of the Draft correspond to those of Article 5 of the GDPR, their violation should generally constitute a very serious infringement, as stated in Article 72.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, and the adverb “seriously” should be removed from Article 50.a) of the Draft. 
For the same reason, in the event of non-compliance with the principle of legality due to the absence of...
Legal Office
The legal basis that legitimizes the processing must remove from letter b) of article 50 the phrase “provided that they cause very serious harm to the interested parties.” Likewise, regarding letter q) of article 50, related to the obligation of blocking, the phrase “and cause very serious harm to the interested parties” must be removed.

Similarly, if in the general regime the obstruction or hindrance or repeated failure to attend to the exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is classified as a very serious infringement in article 72.1 k), then such conduct must be considered a very serious infringement in the draft law, taking into account that it establishes the possibility of adopting greater limitations and restrictions regarding the exercise of those rights. The phrase “provided that very serious harm is caused to the interested parties” must be removed from letter ñ) of article 50, as well as letter h) of article 51, which classifies as a serious infringement “The obstruction, lack of attention, or hindrance of the rights of access, rectification, deletion, or limitation of the interested party, provided that none of the causes for restriction of these rights apply and does not constitute a very serious infringement,” since, except in cases of criminal illegality, its infringement must be considered in any case as very serious.

On the other hand, considering the important powers that both the GDPR and the Directive attribute to data protection authorities, the infringements related to their actions must also be homogenized, without reducing the severity of the infringements. Therefore, just as article 72, letters m, ñ, and o, of Organic Law 3/2018 does, the following must be classified as very serious infringements:
- The non-compliance with resolutions issued by the competent data protection authority in the exercise of the powers conferred by article 43 of this Organic Law.
- The failure to provide access to the competent data protection authority's personnel to personal data, information, premises, equipment, and processing means required by the data protection authority for the exercise of its investigative powers.
- The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the competent data protection authority.

Furthermore, letter o) of article 51.1 of the Draft Law must be modified, which classifies as a serious infringement “The lack of cooperation, negligent action, or obstruction of the inspection function of the data protection authority” by adding the phrase “in cases not contemplated in article 50 of this Organic Law.”  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
56
Legal Office
On the other hand, regarding serious infringements, it must be classified as an infringement in Article 51.1, in addition to the failure to comply with the obligation to designate a data protection officer, as provided in its letter e), the “failure to enable the effective participation of the data protection officer in all matters related to the protection of personal data, not supporting him or interfering with the performance of his functions.” Likewise, it should be classified as a serious infringement “the processing of personal data without having previously consulted the data protection authority in cases where such consultation is mandatory according to Article 29 of this Organic Law.” 
In relation to minor infringements classified in Article 52, letter c) refers to the “failure to comply with the review deadlines required under Article 6.” As indicated in another section of this report, Article 6 transposes Article 5 of the Directive, relating to the retention of personal data, which establishes a specific obligation, in this area, to set appropriate deadlines for the deletion of personal data or for a periodic review of the necessity of retaining personal data. Given that this is a specific provision that increases the guarantees for those affected, considering the more restrictive regime of the Directive, this Agency believes that its non-compliance should not be classified as a minor infringement, but at least as a serious infringement. Therefore, Article 51 must be amended to include as a serious infringement “the failure to comply with the review deadlines required under Article 6,” eliminating letter c) of Article 52.

On the other hand, those behaviors classified that, while provided for in the general regime, do not correspond to the specificities of the special regime contained in the Draft Bill must be eliminated. Thus, letter c) of Article 50 relating to the “failure to comply with the requirements for the validity of consent required by Article 72 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, provided that very serious harm is caused to the interested parties,” must be eliminated, as the Recitals 35 and 37 of the Directive indicate that the consent of the interested party should not in itself constitute a legal basis for the competent authorities to proceed with the processing of personal data in accordance with it. For the same reason, the reference to the consent of the interested party contained in letter e) of Article 50 and in letter d) of Article 51 must be eliminated.
XXXI
Special reference must be made to the classification of behaviors related to the failure to comply with the duty of cooperation established in Article c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
57
Legal Office
5 of the Draft Bill, which are classified as very serious infractions under letter o) of article 50 (The refusal to provide the competent authorities with the necessary information for the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of criminal offenses, for the execution of criminal sanctions, or for the protection and prevention against threats to public safety, provided that very serious harm or risks to the interested parties arise) and as serious infractions under letter n) of article 51 (The refusal to provide the competent authorities with the necessary information for the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of criminal offenses, the execution of criminal sanctions, or for the protection and prevention against threats to public safety).

Aside from the fact that identical conduct is classified with different severity, and as this Agency has repeatedly pointed out, the aforementioned article 5 of the Draft Bill does not transpose any article of the Directive, taking into account the observations made regarding it in section X of this document, which emphasizes the relevance of the specific regulations governing the duty of cooperation with the various competent authorities. Therefore, considering that both the Penal Code and these special regulations classify different behaviors arising from the failure to comply with the duty of cooperation and that this does not have a direct relationship with the regime for the protection of personal data contained in the Directive and in the Draft Bill, the sanctioning regime should be that provided for in the aforementioned special regulations.

Consequently, it is deemed necessary to eliminate letter o) of article 50 and letter n) of article 51.

Likewise, and as previously indicated, considering that this case is the only one that would support the application of the sanctioning regime to the “rest of the natural or legal persons obliged by this organic law” provided for in article 48 concerning the responsible subjects, it is necessary to proceed with the elimination of letter d) of article 48.

In the same way, the inclusion of such conduct is what would justify, once the application of the general personal data protection regulations is set aside, the reference to other laws contained in article 49, as well as the conflict rules established therein. Therefore, it should also proceed to eliminate the reference to other laws in that provision, limiting article 49, as indicated in Report 122/2018, to establish that when the conduct constitutes an infraction of both the General Law and the Draft Bill, the sanctioning provisions of the General Law shall apply; that is, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
58
Legal Office
In another case, the maintenance of provisions that establish responsibilities and classify and sanction behaviors outside the scope of the norm and that do not involve the processing of personal data (rather the opposite, the failure to comply with the duty of cooperation would imply that such processing has not occurred), only produces distortions regarding its application, bearing in mind that the only competent authorities to sanction behaviors contrary to what is provided in the Draft Bill are the control authorities.
XXXII
Finally, regarding typical behaviors, some material errors must be corrected, such as the reiteration of the same behavior in items f) and l) of article 50 or the typo in section d) of article 52 replacing “and to the recipients” with “of the recipients.”
XXXIII
In relation to sanctions, article 53.1 has incorporated the observation made by this Agency, referring regarding the responsible parties included in article 77.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, to what is provided in that provision. Likewise, in its section 2, it has included the reference to the general data protection regulations in order to determine the amount of the sanction for the other infringing subjects. However, the amount of the sanctions established in the previous text has been maintained, which is why it is deemed appropriate to reiterate what was already indicated in Report 122/2018:
Regarding the remaining subjects, the Draft Bill establishes amounts from 6,000 to 24,000 euros for minor infractions, from 24,001 to 60,000 euros for serious infractions, and from 60,001 to 240,000 euros for very serious infractions.
There is no justification in the submitted Project for the amounts established by this provision, which, on the other hand, do not coincide with those established in the current Organic Law 15/1999 nor with those anticipated in the Draft Organic Law on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation, and prosecution of terrorism and serious crimes, which transposed Directive (EU) 2016/681, which was already the subject of a report by this Agency.
On the other hand, the reduction of the limits established in the Draft Bill compared to those provided in Organic Law 15/1999 generates the paradoxical consequence that, having adopted a European Union regulation aimed at strengthening the guarantees of the fundamental rights of those affected in relation to the data processing subject to it, the entry into force of the transposition law into domestic law of that regulation would automatically imply a drastic reduction in the amounts of the sanctions that could be imposed in case of non-compliance with that provision, which in some cases would be reduced by 80% compared to those established in the Organic Law, as would occur in the case of sanctions for the commission of minor infractions.
For this reason, and in order to adequately guarantee the aforementioned rights, the amounts of the sanctions referred to in article 56.2 of the Project should be reviewed, maintaining, at the very least, the amounts currently provided in Organic Law 15/1999, although it would indeed be possible to increase the minimum amount of the sanctions for the commission of minor infractions up to the 6,000 euros established by the regulation.
XXXIV
Article 54 of the Draft Bill regulates the prescription of infractions and sanctions, deviating in the new wording from the general regime contained in Organic Law 3/2018. Considering that the essence of this provision is to transpose a Directive on personal data protection, reasons of legal certainty and the need not to establish a more lenient regime in a more restrictive area concerning the rights of those affected than that provided for in general make it necessary, as has been argued in this report, to equate it to what is provided in Organic Law 3/2018.
In this sense, although the text initially reported by this Agency included prescription periods for infractions that corresponded to those contemplated in articles 72 to 74 of Organic Law 3/2018 (three years for very serious infractions, two years for serious infractions, and one year for minor ones), the new wording of article 54 has reduced those periods:
1. Administrative infractions classified in this law will prescribe after six months, one year, or two years from their commission, depending on whether they are minor, serious, or very serious, respectively.
Therefore, it is necessary to modify section 1 of article 54, adjusting the prescription periods to what is provided in the general regulations, so that the administrative infractions classified in this law will prescribe after one year, two years, or three years from their commission, depending on whether they are minor, serious, or very serious, respectively.
For the same reasons, the interruption of the prescription must follow the same regime as in the general regulations, as provided in article 75 of the Law.
Legal Cabinet
Organic Law 3/2018 on the resumption of the statute of limitations if the sanctioning file has been stalled for more than six months due to causes not attributable to the alleged offender, and not for one month as established in the second paragraph of Article 54.1 of the Draft Bill. Furthermore, it must be taken into account that the procedures processed by the data protection authorities within the scope of the Draft Bill are governed by the provisions of Title VIII of Organic Law 3/2018, to which Article 45 of the Draft Bill refers. Therefore, the wording of the third paragraph of Article 54.1 of the Draft Bill must be modified to align it with the provisions of Article 75 of Organic Law 3/2018:
“The statute of limitations shall be interrupted by the initiation, with the knowledge of the interested party, of the sanctioning procedure, and the statute of limitations shall restart if the sanctioning file has been stalled for more than six months due to causes not attributable to the alleged offender.”
For the same reason, the regime of the statute of limitations for sanctions must be modified, since although in this case the deadlines are adjusted to those provided in Article 78 of Organic Law 3/2018, the resumption of the interrupted period reduces the deadline to one month from the time the procedure is stalled, instead of the six months provided in the general regulations. Therefore, the wording of the second paragraph of Article 54.2 of the Draft Bill must be modified to align it with the provisions of Article 78.3 of Organic Law 3/2018:
“The statute of limitations shall be interrupted by the initiation, with the knowledge of the interested party, of the enforcement procedure, and the period shall resume if it has been stalled for more than six months due to causes not attributable to the offender.”
On the other hand, Article 55 regulates the expiration of the procedure, the elimination of which was already proposed in Report 122/2018, considering that the applicable regulations to the procedures processed by the data protection authorities are those contemplated in Title VIII of Organic Law 3/2018, to which Article 45 of the Draft Bill refers, and whose Article 64 contains specific rules regarding the forms of initiation of the procedures and their duration. 
Consequently, Article 55 of the Draft Bill should be eliminated.
XXXV
Next, it is necessary to analyze the second additional provision introduced in the new text submitted, regarding files and population registers:
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
61

                                                           Legal Cabinet
Second Additional Provision. Files and Population Register of Public Administrations.
1. The competent authorities may request from the National Institute of Statistics, without the consent of the interested party, an updated copy of the file formed with the data of name, surname, address, sex, and date of birth that appear in the municipal registers of inhabitants and in the electoral roll corresponding to the territories where they exercise their competencies.
2. The data obtained shall have the sole purpose of fulfilling the objectives of prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of criminal offenses or enforcement of criminal sanctions, as well as protection and prevention against threats to public safety and communication of these authorities with the interested parties residing in the respective territories, regarding the legal-administrative relations derived from their respective competencies.
First of all, it should be noted that despite the unification in the provision, paragraph 1 contemplates access to data of different nature subject to different legal regimes regarding access to them due to their specific regulations: the data of inhabitants and the data of the electoral roll.
Regarding access to the data of the municipal registers, the Municipal Register of inhabitants is an administrative register regulated by Law 7/1985, of April 2, on the Bases of the Local Regime, whose Article 16, first paragraph, states that “The municipal register is the administrative register where the residents of a municipality are recorded. Its data constitute proof of residence in the municipality and of habitual domicile therein. The certifications issued from such data shall have the character of a public and reliable document for all administrative purposes.”
Regarding the nature of the data contained in the Municipal Register, jurisprudence has repeatedly declared that: “The data of the register are confidential as they contain data pertaining to the privacy of the registered individuals, as inferred from a simple reading of Article 16.2 of the Law on the Bases of the Local Regime, which lists the data that must be included in the Register and that are subject to the Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data with the only exception contained in Article 16.3 of said Law on the Bases.”
In relation to the possible transfer of their data, the third paragraph of the cited provision includes the principles governing the transmission and use of the data from the Municipal Register, stating that “The data from the Municipal Register shall be transferred to other public administrations that request it without
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
62
Legal Office
prior consent from the affected party only when necessary for the exercise of their respective competencies, and exclusively for matters in which residence or domicile are relevant data. They may also be used to prepare official statistics subject to statistical confidentiality, under the terms provided in Law 12/1989, of May 9, on the Public Statistical Function and in the statistical laws of the autonomous communities with competence in the matter.”

This provision is developed by Article 53 of Royal Decree 1690/1986, of July 11, which approves the Regulation on Population and Territorial Demarcation of Local Entities.

“1. The municipal register is the administrative record where the residents of a municipality are listed. Its data constitutes proof of residence in the municipality and of habitual domicile therein. The certifications issued from such data will have the character of a public and reliable document for all administrative purposes.

2. The data from the municipal register will be transferred to other public administrations that request it without prior consent from the affected party only when necessary for the exercise of their respective competencies, and exclusively for matters in which residence or domicile are relevant data. They may also be used to prepare official statistics subject to statistical confidentiality, under the terms provided in Law 12/1989, of May 9, on the Public Statistical Function. 

Outside of these cases, the data from the register is confidential, and access to it will be governed by the provisions of Organic Law 5/1992, of October 29, on the Regulation of Automated Processing of Personal Data and Law 30/1992, of November 26, on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and the Common Administrative Procedure.

3. In any case, the municipal register is subject to the exercise by residents of the rights of access, rectification, and cancellation regulated in Articles 14 and 15 of Organic Law 5/1992, of October 29.”

Article 16.3 of the Local Government Bases Law was extensively interpreted by the Constitutional Court in its ruling 17/2013, of January 31, 2013, in which it determined the constitutionality of the same. As interpreted by the Constitutional Court in that ruling (FJ 8), this provision refers to the non-consented transfer of data related to residence or domicile to other public administrations that request it only in those cases where, for the exercise of their competencies, such data are relevant. In summary, this request, which does not refer to...
Legal Office
specifically regarding the transfer of data from the registry concerning the data of foreigners, aims to have access to the data related to the residence or address recorded in the municipal registry, (...). Thus, in accordance with the Organic Law on data protection, the initial purpose that justified the collection of data by a public Administration does not prevent the subsequent use of the data for purposes different from those that motivated its collection, while respecting, in any case, the principle of legal reservation to establish such a change, (...) the Law on the Bases of Local Regime, in its capacity as a regulatory norm of a file such as the municipal registry, may foresee data transfers between public Administrations. 
(...) the transferred data must be strictly necessary for the fulfillment of the functions assigned to the administrative bodies, so the request for those data that are relevant must be justified, as it is necessary to distinguish between the analysis and monitoring of an individualized situation related to a specific case and the generalized and indiscriminate provision of all the information contained in a personal record. The provision has contemplated both extremes in such a way that any transfer of data from the registry must be based on the necessity on the part of the transferring Administration acting in the exercise of its competencies, to know, in each specific case, the data related to the address of the affected person, aspects that must be adequately assessed by the transferring party in order to determine whether the requested data is truly necessary, relevant, and proportionate, taking into account the competence that the transferring Administration intends to exercise (art. 4 in fine of Law 30/1992). 
Thus, it is a rule that is inherently restricted to data related to residence and address in each specific case, and to which the rest of the principles and provisions that make up the content of the rights recognized in data protection legislation will apply. 
From the above transcribed text, and from the rest of the legal reasoning contained in that ruling, it follows that the Constitutional Court has determined that (i) indiscriminate and massive access to personal data must be avoided (ii) the requested data must be pertinent and necessary (iii) for the purpose established in the provision (iv) the request for access to specific personal data must be expressly motivated and justified, (v) in such a way that it allows for control by the transferring party (vi) and prevents an abusive use of that power with massive accesses. This implies (vii) that the possibility of analyzing whether in each specific case the access was supported by what is established in the law must be guaranteed (art. 16.3 LBRL). 
Based on this regulation and jurisprudence, during the validity of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data.
Legal Office
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection has been differentiating two possible scenarios for data transfer, depending on whether the transferee is a Public Administration or not. 

In the case where the transferee is a Public Administration, this Agency has considered that the expression “municipal register data” used in Article 16.3 of the LBRL refers solely to the data that, in the strict sense, serve to fulfill the purpose for which the municipal register is intended: the determination of the habitual residence or domicile of citizens, the attribution of the status of neighbor, the determination of the population of the municipality, and the accreditation of residence and domicile. Therefore, the transfer of data contained in the municipal register of inhabitants, as regulated by the corresponding legislation, will only be possible if two cumulative requirements are met:

1. First, that it aims at the exercise by the transferee administration of its competencies.
2. Second, that the data corresponding to the residence or domicile of the affected person is relevant for the aforementioned exercise.

Thus, any transfer of municipal register data must be based on the necessity for the transferee Administration, in the exercise of its competencies, to know the domicile of the affected person, given that Article 4.2 of the LOPD of 1999, and today in Article 5.1.b) of the GDPR, implies the impossibility of processing data for purposes different from those that motivated its collection, unless the affected person consents or the Law prescribes otherwise.

Regarding the need to demonstrate competence, it should also take into account the provisions of the second additional provision, paragraph two of Organic Law 15/1999: 
“The files or population registers will have the purpose of facilitating communication between the different bodies of each public administration and the interested parties residing in the respective territories, regarding the legal-administrative relations derived from the respective competencies of the Public Administrations.”

In relation to this provision, the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the National Court in its ruling of April 21, 2004, stated that “From this provision of the Personal Data Protection Law, population files or registers are conceived, among which the municipal register can be included, as an element of communication between the different bodies of public administrations and citizens, and that its use...
Legal Office
will be determined by the fulfillment of the competencies attributed to it by the legal framework.”

Finally, this Agency has also been requiring that such transfer not occur en masse, but rather partially, within the framework of a request and for the maintenance of a specific legal-administrative relationship.

On the other hand, the aforementioned ruling of the Constitutional Court 17/2013 analyzed, in its Legal Foundation Ninth, a specific case of access to the census data, via telematics, by the General Directorate of Police, for the exclusive purpose of exercising the competencies established in the Organic Law on the Rights and Liberties of Foreigners in Spain and their Social Integration, regarding the control and permanence of foreigners in Spain, which is included in the seventh additional provision of the LBRL, introduced by art. 3.5 of Organic Law 14/2003, of November 20, which states the following:

“However, this legal provision must be understood in accordance with the requirements of proportionality that our doctrine demands in the limitation of a fundamental right such as the one concerned here, related to the protection of personal data. This means that the transfer of data that the regulated access by the provision implies must be surrounded by a series of specific guarantees, guarantees that, when fulfilled by the administrative body to which the provision refers, are, evidently, subject to control.

Among them is the necessity to expressly motivate and justify both the specific attribution of the user status for telematic access to the census data that the provision foresees, as well as the specific accesses in question, avoiding – insofar as the required motivation of such decisions facilitates their corresponding control through the mechanisms provided in the legal framework, especially, through judicial-administrative control – the occurrence of both an abusive use of such authority and indiscriminate or mass accesses. Limits on the content of access that also result from certain provisions of ordinary legality, which must be applied keeping in mind, in any case, the necessary unity of the legal framework, such as art. 16.3 LBRL, which we have already examined or even other specific regulations of the Organic Law on data protection, especially its art. 22.2. It follows that access will only be possible, under the aforementioned conditions, when the specific data in question is relevant and necessary in relation to the purpose that justified the access, ensuring the possibility of analyzing whether, in each specific case, the access was supported by what is established in the Law, since, otherwise, its use will not be possible. With such c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
66
Legal Office
guarantees that the regulated access in the questioned provision is provided in relation to the pursued purpose, since, as the resulting data can only be used for the purpose established in the provision, it must be carried out specifically by those expressly authorized to do so and in relation to specific data whose necessity must also be expressly justified and, therefore, subject to control, in the terms we have just outlined.”

Consequently, this Agency understands that, with the access to the data from the registry duly legitimized by the competent authorities, the criteria of proportionality and the guarantees established by the Constitutional Court must still be respected, considering that the formula proposed in the second additional provision of the Draft Bill, consisting of the delivery of an updated copy of the data contained in the municipal registries of the territorial scope in which they exercise their competencies, would imply mass, indiscriminate, and unmotivated access to the same.

On the other hand, regarding the data of the electoral roll, the national legislator has been much more rigorous in regulating access to it, establishing additional guarantees that involve the intervention of the judicial authority when it comes to access to such data outside the expressly contemplated cases in the electoral regulations for electoral purposes. This is evident from the provisions of Article 41 of Organic Law 5/1985, of June 19, on the General Electoral Regime, which after stating in its section 1 that “Personal data of voters necessary for their registration in the electoral roll, as well as those of the lists and copies of the electoral roll, shall be regulated by royal decree,” adds in its second section that “Any particularized information about the personal data contained in the electoral roll is prohibited, except for those requested through judicial channels.”

The reference to judicial channels and not to judicial authorization has raised interpretative doubts regarding the aforementioned provision in relation to access to the electoral roll data by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Police in the exercise of their functions of investigating crimes attributed to them by the LOPJ and the EOMF, with this Agency's interpretation being restrictive as it concerns a limit to a fundamental right, considering judicial intervention necessary, while the provision is not modified.

The proposal of the Draft Bill would imply a substantial modification regarding the traditional regime of access to electoral roll data, eliminating the intervention of the judicial authority in all cases of access by any of the competent authorities. In the opinion of this Agency, such modification is considered excessive, as the reasons for such a significant change are not adequately motivated in the report, and there are no other reasons that would justify, in this case, c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
67
Legal Office
access to the data of the registry, which means that the same requirements of specificity, proportionality, individuality, motivation for access, and control previously required by the Constitutional Court for the data of the registry would apply in this case. Therefore, as has been raised regarding Article 5 of the Draft Bill, a distinction should be made between the cases of access by the judicial bodies of the criminal order, the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the Judicial Police, and the other competent authorities, for which, in any case, the necessary judicial authorization should be maintained. Regarding the Judicial Police, the legislator must assess whether it also allows access in cases where it acts under the provisions of Article 549.1.a) of the LOPJ without a prior decision from the judicial or prosecutorial authority, considering the existing obligation to report to them within a maximum period of 24 hours as provided in Article 295 of the Criminal Procedure Law. Likewise, it is reiterated that in all these cases, the doctrine of the Constitutional Court previously stated regarding access to the data of the registry should be taken into account, avoiding mass, indiscriminate, and unmotivated access to the electoral census data and including a final provision that modifies the aforementioned Article 41.2 of the LOREG.

XXXVI
The fourth final provision amends Organic Law 1/1979, of September 26, General Penitentiary Law (LGP), introducing a new Article 15 bis related to the processing of personal data, with the following wording:
“Article 15 bis. Processing of personal data.
1. Upon the admission of an inmate to the establishment, their personal identity will be verified, carrying out an alphabetical, fingerprint, and photographic record, as well as registration in the admissions book and the opening of a personal file related to their procedural and penitentiary situation, of which they will have the right to be informed.
2. Personal data of inmates that reveal ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or union affiliation, as well as their genetic and biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying them, data related to their health or sexual life or sexual orientation, may also be processed, provided that it is strictly necessary.
3. The processing of personal data of inmates will be governed by the provisions of the Organic Law on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of criminal offenses and the execution of criminal sanctions, as well as protection and prevention against threats to public safety.
4. Likewise, a search of their person and the registration of their belongings will be carried out, removing unauthorized items and objects.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
68
Legal Office
5.  At the time of admission, necessary personal hygiene measures will be adopted, and the inmate will be provided with the appropriate clothing they require, signing for its receipt. The regulations regarding penitentiary institutions affect activities not covered by the scope of European Union law, and therefore are excluded from the application of the general regulations on the protection of personal data, being governed by their specific regulations and, subsidiarily, by said general regulations, as established by Article 2.3 of Organic Law 3/2018:
3.  The treatments to which Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is not directly applicable due to their relation to activities not included in the scope of European Union law will be governed by the provisions of their specific legislation, if any, and subsidiarily by the provisions established in the aforementioned regulation and in this organic law. This situation includes, among others, treatments carried out under the organic legislation of the general electoral regime, treatments carried out in the field of penitentiary institutions, and treatments derived from the Civil Registry, Property Registries, and Commercial Registries. 
Currently, the General Penitentiary Law did not contain a specific provision regarding the processing of personal data of inmates, whose specific regulations are contained in Chapter III of Title I of Royal Decree 190/1996, of February 9, which approves the Penitentiary Regulations, Articles 6 to 9, being assessed by this Agency that such specific regulation should be included in a norm with the rank of law, whose section 3 subjects such treatments to the provisions established in this Draft Bill. 
In this regard, Article 1 of the General Organic Penitentiary Law states that:

“The penitentiary institutions regulated in this Law have as their primary purpose the re-education and social reintegration of those sentenced to custodial sentences and measures, as well as the retention and custody of detainees, prisoners, and convicts. 
They also have a supportive and assistance role for inmates and released individuals.”
Therefore, the majority of the treatments of personal data of inmates carried out by penitentiary institutions will fall within the objective scope of this Draft Bill and the Directive it transposes. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
69
Legal Office
However, there may be processing of personal data of inmates whose purpose is not the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, some of which are specifically provided for in Article 7 of the General Penitentiary Regulation, such as communication to other Public Administrations in order for them to exercise their functions in the area of social services, Social Security, custody of minors, or other analogous matters, as referred to in its paragraph 2, or the processing for the purpose of conducting epidemiological studies as mentioned in its paragraph 3.

In this regard, this Agency expressed its position in its Report 59/2019, concerning the communication by penitentiary institutions to the corresponding Autonomous Community, responsible for processing minimum insertion income, of the data related to the admission of affected individuals into a penitentiary center, taking into account that the suspension of the payment of minimum insertion income is not part of the execution of the sentence but is a consequence of the regional regulations that govern the requirements for such benefits. As stated, such processing, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.3 of the LOPDGDD, is governed by its specific regulations, with the provisions of the GDPR and Organic Law 3/2018 applying in a supplementary manner.

Therefore, regarding the processing that does not fall within the scope of application of the Directive and this Draft Bill, penitentiary regulations may establish special provisions, adjusted to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court regarding the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, especially concerning the proportionality of the limits that may be imposed, without a more restrictive regime for the fundamental right, such as that provided in the Directive, being applicable as a matter of course. And in matters not specifically provided for, the GDPR and Organic Law 3/2018 will apply in a supplementary manner.

Consequently, paragraph 3 of Article 15 bis of the General Penitentiary Organic Law, introduced by the fourth final provision of the Draft Bill, must be amended to specify that the processing of personal data carried out by penitentiary institutions for purposes other than those provided for in the Organic Law on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of criminal offenses and the execution of criminal sanctions, as well as for protection and prevention against threats to public safety, will be governed by its specific regulations and, in a supplementary manner, by the GDPR and Organic Law 3/2018.

On the other hand, regarding the processing of special categories of data referred to in paragraph 2, it should be noted that Article 10 c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
70
Legal Department
of the Directive allows the processing of special categories of personal data only when it is strictly necessary, and provided that one of the grounds a), b) or c) referred to in that article applies, but in any case, it requires "compliance with adequate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of the data subject," guarantees or safeguards that this article does not establish and which should be included in light of the doctrine established in the ruling of the Constitutional Court 76/2019, of May 22, regarding section 1 of art. 58 bis of Organic Law 5/1985, of June 19, on the general electoral regime, incorporated into this by the final provision three, section two, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the protection of personal data and the guarantee of digital rights:
"The regulation [here, the Directive] therefore contains a specific obligation for Member States to establish such guarantees, in the event that they authorize the processing of specially protected personal data."
(…)
This dual function of the law reserve translates into a double requirement: on one hand, the necessary intervention of the law to enable the interference; and, on the other hand, that legal norm "must meet all those indispensable characteristics as a guarantee of legal security," that is, "it must express each and every one of the premises and conditions of the intervention" (STC 49/1999, FJ 4). In other words, "it not only excludes delegations in favor of regulatory norms [...], but also implies other requirements regarding the content of the Law that establishes such limits" (STC 292/2000, FJ 15).
(…)
- The mere absence of "adequate safeguards" or of the "minimum requirements of the Law" constitutes in itself an interference in the fundamental right, of a severity similar to that which would be caused by direct intrusions into its core content.
- The requirement of "adequate safeguards" is therefore based on respect for the essential content of the fundamental right.
(…)
b) This doctrine on adequate safeguards is also followed by the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In the judgment of the Grand Chamber of April 8, 2014, joined cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights Ireland Ltd, paragraph 54, the Court of Justice stated the following: "the Union legislation in question must establish clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of the measure in question and set minimum requirements so that individuals whose data has been retained have sufficient guarantees to effectively protect their personal data against the risks of abuse and against any unlawful access or use of such data (see, by analogy, regarding Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, Liberty and Others v. United Kingdom of July 1, 2008, no. 58243/00, §§62 and 63; Rotaru v. Romania, cited above, §§57 to 59, and S and Marper v. United Kingdom, cited above, §§99)."
(…)
7. Having established the above, we are in a position to assess the three elements that encompass the central challenge of the unconstitutionality appeal and that converge in a double violation of arts. 18.4 and 53.1 CE: (i) that the challenged legal provision has not determined by itself the purpose of the processing of personal data revealing political opinions, beyond the generic mention of "public interest"; (ii) that it has not limited the processing by regulating in detail the restrictions on the fundamental right; and (iii) that it has not established itself the adequate safeguards to protect the affected fundamental rights.
(…)
Therefore, the resolution of this challenge requires us to clarify a doubt raised regarding the scope of our doctrine on adequate safeguards, which consists of determining whether the adequate safeguards against the use of information technology must be contained in the law itself that authorizes and regulates that use or can also be found in other normative sources.
The question can only have a constitutional answer. The provision of adequate safeguards cannot be deferred to a later moment after the legal regulation of the processing of personal data in question. The adequate safeguards must be incorporated into the very legal regulation of the processing, whether directly or by express and perfectly delineated reference to external sources that possess the appropriate normative rank. Only that understanding is compatible with the double requirement that arises from art. 53.1 CE for the legislator of fundamental rights: the law reserve for the regulation of the exercise of the fundamental rights recognized in Chapter Two of Title One of the Constitution and the respect for the essential content of those fundamental rights.
Legal Office
(…)
(iv)  Lastly, we must remember that the General Data Protection Regulation establishes the minimum, common, or general guarantees for the processing of personal data that are not special. In contrast, it does not itself establish the legal regime applicable to the processing of special personal data, neither in the context of the Member States nor for Union Law. Therefore, it does not set the guarantees that must be observed for the various possible treatments of sensitive data, which are appropriate to the risks of varying probability and severity that exist in each case; treatments and special categories of data that are, or may be, very diverse from one another. The regulation merely contemplates the possibility that the legislator of the European Union or that of the Member States, each within their area of competence, may foresee and regulate such treatments, and indicates the guidelines that must be observed in their regulation. One of those guidelines is that the law of the Member State establishes “appropriate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject” [art. 9.2 g) GDPR] and that “appropriate safeguards are provided” (recital 56 GDPR). It is evident that the establishment of appropriate and specific measures can only be explicit. If the internal regulation governing the processing of personal data related to political opinions does not provide for those appropriate safeguards, but merely refers implicitly to the general safeguards contained in the General Data Protection Regulation, it cannot be considered that it has carried out the regulatory task that the regulation requires.

Consequently, section 2 should be amended to incorporate the safeguards deemed appropriate to safeguard the right to the protection of personal data of the inmates, taking into account the type of data being processed and the purposes of the different treatments.

XXXVII
In conclusion, we reiterate the advisability, already mentioned in report 122/2018, of adapting the terminology used in the Draft Bill, whose essence, as noted, is to transpose a Directive on data protection, to the specific terminology used in the general regulation, constituted both by the GDPR and by Organic Law 3/2018. In this regard, the concept of “vital interest” should be included, and concepts not found in the data protection regulation, such as “danger” or “level of risk,” should be replaced by “risk” or “high risk,” which are the terms used in the three cited regulations. Furthermore, it should be noted that the new regulation no longer revolves, unlike the previous one, around the concept of file but around that of processing.