1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00193/2021

RESOLUTION
 

 OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 30, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against Vodafone Spain,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 which is transcribed below:
<<
Procedure no.: PS/00193/2021

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. in the name and on behalf of D.B.B.B. (hereinafter the part
claimant) on January 4, 2021 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

The claim is directed against Vodafone España, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in
hereafter, the party claimed).

The complaining party states that he observes in the operations of his bank account a
charge of the claimed party, and they inform him that he had been billed for the consumption of
two mobile lines which were contracted in his name in the town of
Avilés, and in addition a pack had been contracted, possibly of mobile terminals, the
which had not yet been invoiced.
   
The claimant filed a complaint with the National Police of Seville and a
claim before the Organization of Consumers and Users.

On the other hand, he states that he has not been a client of the defendant.

And, among other things, it provides the following documentation:

- Complaint filed with the National Police of Seville on January 2, 2021, by the
hiring in your name of telephony services.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred to the claimed on February 17, 2021, in accordance with the provisions
in article 65.4 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

actions with reference E/01375/2021. Notification is done electronically,
and figure delivered on February 17, 2021.

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 65.2 of the Organic Law
3/2018, on Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), in
On April 23, 2021, the agreement to process the claim is signed.

FOURTH: When transferring the claim to the claimed party, he/she submitted a written document on the 14th
May 2021, stating that it proceeded to investigate the reported facts and
declared the claimed incident as fraudulent, finding all the lines
affected permanently deregistered.

They attach as document number 1, the response provided to the complaining party, in
In this sense, they apologize for the events that occurred and inform them of the
actions made.

The respondent states that, once the claim was received, they proceeded to give
temporary removal of the lines associated with the customer ID reported on January 11
2021 after verifying the indications of fraud, and formally communicated the
Procedures made to the claimant on January 11 and February 18, 2021
by means of a letter sent to the OCU and attached as document number 2.

Finally, on March 18, 2021, they proceeded to deactivate
services subject to fraudulent registration after confirming that the incident had been
due to a contracting of identity theft services of the claimant.

Likewise, once the registrations were declared fraudulent, they proceeded to cancel the
existing debt in their systems. In this sense, they attach as document number
3 the invoices issued, as well as the corresponding payment to cancel the debt.

On the other hand, they state that they acted as quickly as possible to resolve the
situation, since until that moment the client account associated with the N.I.F. of
claimant and the services related to it appeared to be correct. In this
sense are attached as document number 4 the contracts formalized with the
alleged owner of the line.

On the other hand, the defendant states that the Security Policy has been
progressively updating, having implemented its last modification in
date November 21, 2019.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

II

The exposed facts may imply, on the part of the claimed party, the
Commission of an infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD that establishes the assumptions that
allow the processing of personal data to be considered lawful.

Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the

assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

                 "1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

a) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it carried out the treatment of the
personal data of the complaining party without having any legitimacy to
it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

 The personal data of the complaining party were incorporated into the systems
information of the company, without proving that it had contracted
legitimately, had legitimacy for the collection and subsequent treatment of
your personal data, or there is any other cause that makes the treatment lawful
effected.

Based on the foregoing, in the case analyzed, it remains in
questioned the diligence used by the respondent to identify the
person who made the contract on behalf of the complaining party.

Well, it is accredited as recognized by the defendant in his
written response to this Agency dated May 14, 2021, which was produced
fraudulent hiring.

It should be noted that the contracts provided by the party claimed as
document number 4, appear unsigned and their data (address, date
of birth), do not coincide with those of the claimant's DNI.

Likewise, it is known that the Sepa direct debit order is not signed.

Thus, the respondent did not verify the identity of the alleged contracting party,

took the necessary precautions so that these events did not occur.

According to the evidence currently available
procedural and without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the procedure, it is estimated
that the conduct of the complained party could violate article 6.1 of the RGPD
being able to constitute the infraction typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned
Regulation 2016/679.

   In short, the respondent has not provided a document or evidence
one that shows that the entity, in such a situation, would have deployed the
minimum diligence required to verify that your interlocutor was indeed the one
claimed to hold

 Respect for the principle of legality that is in the essence of the fundamental right
of protection of personal data requires that it be accredited that the
responsible for the treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that
extreme. Failure to act in this way -and this Agency, who is responsible for ensuring
for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal character - the result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

In this sense, Recital 40 of the GDPR states:

         “(40) For the processing to be lawful, the personal data must be processed
with the consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established
in accordance with Law, either in these Regulations or by virtue of another Law
of the Union or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation,
including the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the person responsible for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

treatment or the need to execute a contract in which the interested party is a party or
in order to take measures at the request of the interested party prior to the
conclusion of a contract.”

III

The determination of the sanction to be imposed in this case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the RGPD, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b)

the intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to pa-
allocate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent.
gives;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

 adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of

i)
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

  Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled
“Sanctions and corrective measures”:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are disputes between them and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate,
of the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to
impose on the claimed entity as responsible for an infraction typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD, in an initial assessment,
The following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

As mitigating factors:

- Immediately proceeded to manage the cancellation of the services and the payment of the

amounts invoiced (article 83.2.c, RGPD).

As aggravating factors:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

-

-

That the facts object of the claim are attributable to a lack of diligence
of the claimed party (article 83.2.b, RGPD).

The evident link between the business activity of the respondent and the
processing of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the
RGPD in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD)

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the claimed party and set it at the amount of

€50,000 for the infringement of article 83.5 a) RGPD and 72.1b) of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the

Spanish Data Protection Agency.

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1) typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT D. C.C.C. as instructor. and as secretary to Ms. D.D.D.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be for the violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, the corresponding sanction would be a
fine for an amount of 50,000 euros (fifty thousand euros) without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A80907397 granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% for the sanction to be imposed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

in this proceeding, equivalent in this case to ten thousand euros (€10,000).
With the application of this reduction, the amount of the sanction would be established in
forty thousand euros (€40,000), resolving the procedure with the imposition of
this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction,
in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean a
reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to ten thousand
euros (€10,000), for the imputed infraction. With the application of this reduction, the
The amount of the sanction would be established at forty thousand euros (€40,000) and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure.
The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at thirty thousand euros (€30,000).
In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.
In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, 40,000 euros or 30,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears
in the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
is welcomed.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency>>

SECOND: It is stated that the Start Agreement was notified on August 2, 2021,
proceeded on August 17, 2021 to pay the penalties in the amount of 40,000
euros making use of the reduction provided for in the Start Agreement, stating:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

“That Vodafone has ordered the payment of €40,000 corresponding to the infringement
initially planned, taking into account the 20% reduction for the payment
voluntary sanction, and in this act desists and waives any action or resource
in administrative proceedings in relation to this assumption of fact, in accordance with the
established in art. 85 of the LPACAP”.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Home Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00193/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with
NIF A80907397.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as
prescribed by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, interested parties may
file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

