Case number: NAIH / 2020/2545/3.
History Case NAIH / 2019/7897

Subject: Decision rejecting the application

DECISION

Before the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
the representative of the applicant (hereinafter referred to as the “Applicant”), […] (hereinafter referred to as the
not by […] (hereinafter referred to as the "Applicant")
submitted to the Authority on 11 November 2019
initiated all data requests of the Applicant
rejects.
***
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but it has been available since its notification
He may be challenged in an administrative lawsuit before the Metropolitan Court within 30 days.
The application must be submitted to the Authority electronically, which will forward it together with the case file
to the court. The emergency does not affect the time limit for bringing an action. Request for a hearing
shall be indicated in the application. During the emergency, the court acts out of court. The entire
for those who do not receive personal tax exemption, the fee for the administrative lawsuit is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit for
subject to the right to record material duty. Legal representation is mandatory in proceedings before the Metropolitan Court.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
I.1. In its application received by the Applicant on 11 November 2019, the Applicant is a data protection authority
initiated proceedings against the Applicant.
According to the application, the Applicant submitted an application for the exercise of access rights on 17 September 2019
submitted to the Applicant.
In the context of the alleged infringement, only paragraphs 1.2., 1.3. and 2.3. by the Applicant
marked inadequate performance.
The request for access 1.2. The petitioner referred to Act C of 2000 on Accounting
(hereinafter: the Act), according to which the economic operator keeping double-entry bookkeeping
the use and ownership of the assets and resources held by them
shall keep accounting records of its operations in the assets (assets) and
changes in liabilities (liabilities) are realistic, continuous, closed
system, clearly shows. He requested that the Applicant send it itemized and in full
economic transactions, economic events that are related to transaction number […] (a
hereinafter referred to as “transaction”) and may be linked to the personal data of the Applicant
are considered. In this context, he explained that in his view the performance was complete if all
the economic event related to the transaction becomes known to him.
The Applicant shall submit the access request 1.3. provided information to the concessionaire
the fair value of the receivable. Below fair value, Sztv. The definition pursuant to Section 3 (9) (12)
understood the Applicant. He further requested that the Applicant send it to him for assignment
personal data handed over to the assignee in connection with the assignment document
data in full, in full, if necessary obscuring content that does not qualify
your personal information.

2

The Applicant further requested that if the assignment agreement does not contain a
personal data, the Applicant shall provide the data on the basis of which the “concessionaire”
determine the value of the claim, what documents, data, information when determining it
relies on.
The request for access 2.3. In paragraph 1, the Applicant requested information from the Applicant that the transaction
on which financial asset the receivable arose and was recorded in the accounting records
and requested details of this financial instrument. He also asked for information on
what the currency of this claim was and what the claim “went through
for recording ’.
The application 1.2. (“Getting to Know Transaction Record Items”) and 2.3. (“Transaction-related receivable
in connection with the data requests contained in the item “determination of the source”)
informed the Applicant that this data does not constitute personal data as well as business
they are a secret. The 1.3. in connection with the application set out in point
The Applicant explained that the assignment agreement was a business secret, thus
it may not be made available to the Applicant.
According to the Applicant, the Applicant “does not refer to the
on the basis of which the request for data could be refused. "
According to the Applicant, all data requested by him are considered personal data, they are with him
and their provision would not be prejudicial to the Applicant
for.
In its request, the Applicant explained that in its view all the details of the assignment
which can be related to the obligor of the assigned claim can be identified by him, thus
in particular, the amount for which the claim has been exchanged between the assignor and the assignee
host.
The Applicant has requested the Authority to oblige the Applicant to comply with the access agreement dated 17 September 2019.
complete the request for the exercise of the right.
It was filed as a parallel application that provided the Requested trade secret
may restrict the right of access, the Authority shall require the applicant to justify and
justify why the request for access to the transaction records of the transaction does not affect the Applicant
the processing of personal data by the Applicant, as well as the registration of the transaction
why your items do not qualify as your personal information. The Applicant further requested that the Authority
order the Applicant to justify the extent to which the Applicant would be adversely affected
the fulfillment of the Applicant's request for access to his / her personal data
release.
At the request of the Applicant received on 11 November 2019, Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1) a
NAIH / 2019/7897. case data was initiated on 12 November 2019.
I.2. In order to clarify the facts, the Authority invited the Applicant to make a statement, which
The Applicant complied with this request by a reply dated 10 December 2019.
The Applicant informed the Authority in the foregoing that his claim against the Applicant
In 2014, after the transfer, it sold a data management operation other than data storage
in connection with the personal data of the Applicant.
In its statement, the Applicant informed the Authority that the “Transaction
The definition of “records” is not a bank definition, the Applicant does not use such a definition. THE
Section 1.2 of the request for access dated 28 June 2019. already requested in the section “Transaction
in response to which, based on the content of the application, the Applicant
sent him a detailed turnover report for the transaction, which included the
transaction data related to the loan transaction (due date; amount of payment, title; etc.)

3

In the Applicant's view, the assets and liabilities behind the transaction do not include
no personal information, and it is a trade secret to the amount of the lease paid
from what sources it obtains the necessary resources (eg refinancing, bank loan, etc.).
The Applicant explained that everything related to its business policy, management and operation
a fact, information, solution or data that has not yet been disclosed, and no
facts, information, solutions and data related to contracts concluded with customers are considered business secrets.
The latter subject also includes the assignment agreement concluded with the buyer of the receivable.
The assignment agreement includes, among other things, the number of receivables sold,
the type of payment, the consideration for the transfer of the claim, the payment schedule, the
the order of settlement between the receivables buyer, etc. This information is for the requested business
secret, as their disclosure would worsen the Applicant 's future bargaining position in the
in the course of its claims business, so it is in the Custodian’s fundamental interest to have this information
do not become known. In addition, this information is within the Applicant's organizational system only
available to a small group of employees.
In the reply letters dated 8 May 2019 and 5 September 2019, the Applicant is the Applicant
provided by the personal data handed over during the assignment and handled by the Applicant
data and documents containing personal data. Prior to data provision
the Applicant asked the Applicant to clarify his application to the assignment contract
learn how your personal information is affected.
The definition of “source of receivable related to a transaction” is also not a banking term, its
the Applicant could not determine the content of the report. Where the source of the loan is
that it is not relevant for the processing of personal data
information and constitutes a trade secret, as defined in the concept of ‘transaction records’.
explained.
II. Applicable legal provisions
The protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and such
2016/679 on the free movement of data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
(EU) Regulation (hereinafter: GDPR) for the processing of data in the present case
the GDPR shall apply.
The relevant provisions of the GDPR in the present case are the following:
GDPR Recital 63: The data subject is entitled to have access to the data collected about him
the lawfulness of data processing
exercise this right in order to establish and control This includes the right of the data subject to
that personal information about your health - such as diagnosis, examination
findings, opinions of treating physicians, and treatments and interventions
health records - access. Therefore, all concerned should have the right to
to know in particular the purposes for which the personal data will be processed and, if possible, that
the duration of the processing of personal data, the recipients of the personal data, the a
the logic behind the automated processing of personal data and the way in which the data is processed
The consequences, at least where it is based on profiling, and
to be informed of all this. If possible, the data controller may provide remote access to one
a secure system through which the data subject can access his or her personal data directly
can access. This right must not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others, including business secrets
or copyright, which ensures the protection of intellectual property, and in particular software. These
considerations, however, should not result in the person receiving all the information
they refuse. If the data controller handles a large amount of information about the data subject, you may request it
the data subject to clarify what information you are requesting before disclosing the information
which data management activities.

4

GDPR Article 4 (1): "personal data" means an identified or identifiable natural person
(Relevant) any relevant information; the natural person who you are direct can be identified
indirectly, in particular an identifier such as name, number, location data, online
identification or natural, physical, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or
identifiable by one or more factors relating to his social identity.
Article 15 GDPR: 1. The data subject shall have the right to receive feedback from the controller that:
whether the processing of your personal data is in progress and, if such processing is in progress,
have the right to access personal data and the following information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been disclosed
or will be communicated, including in particular to third country recipients or international
organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible, this
criteria for determining duration;
(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
rectification, erasure or restriction on the processing of such personal data and may object to the processing of such personal data
against;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information on their source;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including profiling
and, at least in these cases, the logic used
information on the significance of such data processing and what is expected of the data subject
consequences.
(3) The data controller shall provide the data subject with a copy of the personal data which are the subject of the data processing
release. For additional copies requested by the data subject, the data controller shall, on the basis of administrative costs,
you may charge a reasonable fee. If the application was submitted by electronic means, the
information shall be provided in a widely used electronic format, unless
the person concerned requests otherwise.
4. The right to request a copy referred to in paragraph 3 shall not adversely affect others
rights and freedoms.
Article 77 (1) GDPR: Without prejudice to other administrative or judicial remedies, all
the person concerned has the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority, in particular the normal one
in the Member State of residence, employment or the place of the alleged infringement, if any
considers that the processing of personal data concerning him or her infringes this Regulation.
Infotv. § 2 (2): Personal data are subject to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
(hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
the Data Protection Regulation in Annexes III-V. and VI / A. Chapter 3 and Sections 3, 4, 6, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21,
23-24. Section 4 (5), Section 5 (3) to (5), (7) and (8), Section 13 (2)
§ 23, § 25, 25 / G. § (3), (4) and (6), 25 / H. § (2)
paragraph 25 / M. § (2), 25 / N. §, 51 / A. § (1), Articles 52-54. § 55 (1) - (2), 56-60. §, 60 / A. § (1) - (3) and (6), § 61 (1)
paragraph 61 (a) and (c), Section 61 (2) and (3), paragraph (4) (b) and paragraphs (6) to (10)
paragraphs 62 to 71. §, § 72, § 75 (1) - (5), 75 / A. § and 1.
shall apply with the additions set out in Annex I.
Infotv. Enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1)
In order to do so, the Authority may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings. For the data protection authority procedure
CL of 2016 on General Administrative Procedure. (hereinafter: Ákr.)
apply with the additions specified in the Information Act and in accordance with the general data protection regulation
with differences.

5

The data protection authority procedure is governed by the CL of 2016 on General Administrative Procedure. law
(hereinafter: Ákr.) shall be applied with the additions specified in the Information Act and the
with derogations under the General Data Protection Regulation.
LIV of 2018 on the protection of business secrets. Act (hereinafter: the Act) Section 1 (1): Business
a secret related to an economic activity, secret - in whole or in part
not easily known to persons or persons carrying out the economic activity concerned
available - and therefore of fact, information, other data and
a compilation has been made to keep the secret in the given situation in order to keep it secret
it usually exhibits expected behavior.
III. Decision
Fulfillment of the Applicant's request for access
III.1.1. Transaction record items
Under the above title, the Applicant requested information on economic events and operations that:
they relate to the transaction and, in its view, constitute your personal data.
The purpose of accounting regulations is to determine the property, financial and income situation of enterprises and their
objective information is available on the development of
An economic event is an operation or event that is the property of an enterprise
or affect their financial and income situation. Management of double-entry bookkeeping
aims to bring about changes in assets and liabilities in line with reality
present. Accounting records kept in accordance with the rules of double-entry bookkeeping in the life of the business
includes all economic events that occur, not on a transaction-by-transaction basis
will be made bound.
In the Authority's view, the Applicant acted properly in dealing with the Applicant's transaction
request for access to related economic events in accordance with its content
attached to the letter of 8 May 2019 containing the detailed turnover report for the transaction,
which contained transaction data related to the loan transaction (due; amount of payment,
title; etc.).
The form in which an economic event is recorded in the accounting records and
the effect on the Applicant's financial situation is not considered personal by the Applicant
cannot be linked to it. Consequently, the Authority concludes that
Applicant did not violate Article 15 of the GDPR by failing to provide such information
which do not constitute your personal data.
The Authority notes that since the accounting records kept by the Applicant do not qualify as
Applicant's personal data, therefore, in this regard in terms of fulfilling the access request
whether or not it is a trade secret of the Requested, its examination by the Authority
not required.
III.1.2. Details of the assignment
a) By letter dated 15 October 2019, the Applicant informed the Applicant of the
the fair value of the assigned receivable, which was the amount of the total bank receivable that
the claim remained after the sale of the financed vehicle and the amount […] was supplemented
interest on arrears until the date of assignment.
b) The Applicant requested the provision of the deed of assignment and requested access to the
personal data provided to the concessionaire. In this context, it is important to note that it is
the deed of assignment, the assignment notice and the assignment agreement are not the same
concepts and various documents.

6

The assignment notice is the document in which the assignor, i.e. the claim, is original
the debtor is entitled to the assignment of the assignment and the assignee
notify you of the claim.
A deed of assignment is a document that is similar to a deed of assignment
content is issued by the assignor, supplemented by the identity of the assignee. This document
however, the assignor does not send it to the debtor, but hands it over to the assignee who
you can use this document to prove that the claim has been assigned to it.
According to the Applicant's statement, the Applicant was informed in the assignment notice by
on assignment. The assignment agreement concluded between the Applicant and […] on 2 June 2014
- the subject of which was the claim of the Applicant against the Applicant - IV.3. according to point
assignor, ie the Applicant meets the legal conditions of the assignment deed, common
made a statement, a letter of notification, which was also signed by the Applicant and then handed over to the
concessions. According to the assignment agreement, that letter of formal notice contained
the fact of the assignment, the indication of the assigned claim, the identity of the assignee,
its registered office, site and bank account number and the execution order. The notification letters are
sent to the debtors by a concessionaire.
In its application dated 17 September 2019, the Applicant did not expressly request the assignment
access to the contract. He requested that the deed of assignment be sent and that
that if the assignment agreement does not contain personal data, the
Applicant should be informed of the data used to determine the value of the claim
what data, documents and information it relies on to determine. Subject to request
it can be assumed that the Applicant also wanted to add to the assignment contract
to fit.
An assignment agreement is an agreement between the assignor and the assignee that
under which the assignee assigns his claim against the debtor to the assignee, and
the assignee replaces the assignor. The assignment agreement is primarily
settles the legal relationship between the transferor and the assignee, in the framework of which the
matters which they consider relevant. Examples of such issues are a
deadlines for payment, consideration for transferred claims, rights and obligations of the parties,
ways to communicate with. Consequently, the assignment agreement does not qualify as a transfer
personal data of the debtor.
It is attached to the assignment agreement concluded between the Applicant and the assignee
however, a table of assigned receivables from each obligor,
indicating by name the debtor, the outstanding debt and the proportion of capital and
what part of interest. The table also shows what the purchase price of that receivable was.
However, the purchase price of the claim, despite the fact that it also qualifies as the personal data of the Applicant, also
also the trade secret of the Requested, as it is related to his economic activity, is secret - not well known
and not easily accessible to the persons carrying out the economic activity concerned,
hence data with property value, the confidentiality of which is required by the Applicant
normally behaves in an expected situation. The latter is supported by the fact that a
even within its organizational system, only a narrow circle can access the data that the Applicant
the purchase price at which the receivables management assigns its receivables from its former customers
for companies engaged in activities.
Article 15 (4) of the GDPR and the explanatory and clarifying GDPR (63)
According to the preamble to the Directive, the right of access must not adversely affect the rights of others and
freedoms, including business secrets. Accordingly, the Applicant rightly claims that:
the purchase price of the receivable in the assignment agreement or in the appendix to the agreement
data is a business secret and is therefore not made available to the Applicant, so its procedure
did not infringe Article 15 of the GDPR.

7

c) Applicant's request for access 1.3. not in the third paragraph of point
it is clear whether in this circle he wishes to know whether he is the assignee against him
how the purchase price of the claim was determined (the use of the word concession allows
or that the installments, interest, default interest and other costs
how they developed, what they were determined by.
The application was initiated by the Applicant “if not included in the assignment agreement
personal data ”and the request is based on“ on the basis of what data the concessionaire
determine the value of the claim ’. Although the Applicant's request was directed to the Applicant
inform the assignee how to determine the value of the claim according to its content
related to how the Claimant determines the value of the claim, as the assignee is
during the transaction it was not the Applicant but […]. In view of the above, the Authority concludes that:
that the Applicant wished to know in this context that the
how the purchase price of the receivable was calculated.
This calculation method, the information and data on which it is based are not relevant to the Applicant
data, they are determined by the Applicant independently of the Applicant, so this
the Applicant is not entitled to access information under Article 15 of the GDPR and the Applicant
did not violate the provisions of the GDPR when this information was not provided by the Applicant
available to you.
III.1.3. The source of the receivable related to the transaction
A “source of a receivable related to a transaction” is not a banking term, not a general, ordinary one
has, so it is difficult to interpret, even with the explanation he gives, that under this heading
exactly what data or information the Applicant wanted to know.
According to the interpretation also accepted by the Requested Authority, the application is presumably for the Applicant
the source of the loan disbursed. The assets and liabilities behind the transaction that show it
what the Applicant used to finance (eg refinancing, bank loan)
loan, do not contain any personal information, as this information is not for him, not for
purely financial data to which the GDPR has a right of access
insurance provisions do not provide an opportunity.
Accordingly, the Authority finds that the Applicant did not infringe Article 15 of the GDPR when
did not provide information to the Applicant about information that does not qualify as personal data.
ARC. Other issues:
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) determine the jurisdiction of the country
covers the whole territory.
The present decisions are based on Ákr. 80.-81. § and Infotv. They are based on Section 61 (1). The decision and the
order of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), they become final upon their communication. The Ákr. § 112 and 114.
§ (1), there is a right of appeal against the decision through an administrative lawsuit.
***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Section 12 (1) and Section 13 (3) (a) (aa)
administrative proceedings against the decision of the Authority fall within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is a
The Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. A Kp. Pursuant to Section 27 (1) (b), the General Court
legal representation is mandatory in administrative proceedings falling within its competence. A Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6) a
the filing of an application does not have suspensory effect on the entry into force of the administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a

8

hereinafter: E-Administration Act) Section 9 (1) (b) of the Client’s legal representative
obliged to keep in touch.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The trial
Information on the possibility of requesting the maintenance of the It is based on § 77 (1) - (2).
74/2020 on certain procedural measures in force during an emergency. (III. 31.) Korm.
Pursuant to Article 35 of the Decree (hereinafter: the Decree), unless otherwise provided by this Decree,
the emergency does not affect the running of the time limits.
Pursuant to Section 41 (1) (a) - (c) of the Decree, the court is hearing at the time of the emergency
acting outside. If the trial were to take place outside the time of the emergency, the claimant may request that
that the court, instead of an out-of-court settlement, hear the trial after the end of the emergency
postpone the date if (a) the court has the suspensory effect of the administrative act at least in part
(b) the action has suspensory effect and the court has not
(c) no interim measure has been ordered.
The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. Act (hereinafter: Itv.)
45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1) and
Section 62 (1) (h) exempts the party initiating the proceedings.
Budapest, April 3, 2020

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

