 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, April 4, 2019

 

press release

 

Publish pictures – who is allowed to do it, where and why?

Thomas Kranig, President of the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
(BayLDA) will be in the “DATA TUESDAY” series on Tuesday, April 9, 2019 at
7:00 p.m. in the Museum for Communication Bringing light to dealing with images.

 

The topic:

The use of images by companies, clubs, associations, kindergartens or private
fathers leads again and again to legal disputes. Especially many legal ones
Problems arise when people are depicted. Thomas Kranig uses specific
ten examples of the legal framework conditions to be observed, such as data protection
supervisory authorities assess this and make recommendations for practice.

The General Data Protection Regulation, which has been applicable since May 2018, has unsettled many and
due to the draconian penalty framework for data protection violations, sometimes also to panic
actions led. Whole websites were switched off, all pictures were deleted – and not at all
only on the Internet, but also the pictures drawn by children in kindergartens from the wall
taken.

After his presentation, Thomas Kranig will refer to the - according to experience very numerous -
Answer questions from the audience (before the Museum for Communication becomes a
invites you to a final drink in order to exchange ideas with each other).

Target group:

Invited are all those who want to take and publish pictures (with personal data)
be it on Facebook, Instagram, your own website, in company brochures or whatever
else always.

The referee:

Thomas Kranig is President of BayLDA, the data protection supervisory authority for non-
public area in Bavaria. In case of doubt, this supervisory authority is responsible for deciding whether
the processing of images is permissible under data protection law and, if not, sanctions for violations
kidneys

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



- 2 -

 

 

 

The series of events:

Since 2015, the Museum for Communication in Nuremberg, the professional association of

Data Protection Officer of Germany e.V. (BvD) and Bavarian State Office for Data Protection

(BayLDA) the lecture series “Data Tuesday”. Once a month there is a lecture that

basically deals with questions of data protection and data security, but always also to a certain extent

also keeps an eye on the social relevance of the topics. These lectures are for

Designed for the general public and not (only) for a specialist audience. In the subsequent discussion

the speakers are always available for a discussion.

 

The event takes place on

  

 

Tuesday, April 9, 2019 at 7 p.m.

in the Museum of Communication,

Lessingstrasse 6

90443 Nuremberg

Admission is free. Afterwards you are invited for a drink.

 

Information about these and the follow-up events of Data Tuesday can be found on the

te of the Museum for Communication (https://www.mfk-nuernberg.de/datendienstag/) and also on

the BayLDA website (www.lda.bayern.de).

 

Thomas Kranig

president

 

 

