

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities of the City of Prague 6 - disclosure of personal data in connection with requests for information



On the basis of the initiative of the chairperson of the Office, the Office carried out an inspection of the publication of personal data of applicants for information in accordance with Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on free access to information, by the city district.

The Office did not find that the inspected person had published the personal data of the applicant for information pursuant to Act No. 106/1999 Coll. The personal data of these persons were included in the presentation of the secretary of the controlled person, while this presentation was used only for the meetings of the secretaries, who have a duty of confidentiality. Disclosure of personal data to a limited circle of persons, bound by confidentiality, is not disclosure of personal data. The authority did not find out who and when should have published this presentation on the website and who and when to delete it.

The office further checked the misconduct of the employee during delivery to the data box. Given that the inspected person did not prove that the employee was properly instructed about her duties in the area of personal data protection, the responsibility for making personal data available by delivering the shipment to another person's data box rests with the inspected person.

Thus, in connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office found a violation of ยง 13 paragraph 1 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (taking security measures). Considering that the inspected person immediately corrected the defective condition, the Office did not impose corrective measures. Proceedings on the misdemeanor were not initiated in the case, as the responsibility for it has expired.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector PhDr. Petr Krejci.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Municipal district Prague 6 - disclosure of personal data in connection with a request for informationView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



