

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the legal title for the processing of personal data and other obligations according to the general regulation within the framework of customer programs (UOOU-00893/21)
Retailer


The inspection was carried out on the basis of the Inspection
of the Office's plan for 2021. Its subject was the verification of processing procedures
personal data and obligations arising from the general regulation at
use of the loyalty program and loyalty cards, including family cards
customers, primarily focused on: verifying the principles of processing according to Article 5 (legality,
minimization, storage limitations, integrity and confidentiality), legality of processing according to Article 6 (incl
possible profiling), conditions for granting consent according to Article 7, enforcement of the rights of data subjects stipulated in Article 12
to Article 22 (focus on the provision of information to data subjects and the right to erasure), use of processors according to Article 28, security of processing according to Article 32 (security
client database) of the general regulation.

The performed inspection found that the inspected person processes at
use of the loyalty program and loyalty cards, including family cards
customers, reasonable, relevant and necessary scope of personal data. Personal data
are processed correctly, legally and transparently.

It is clear from the inspection findings that
processing of personal data takes place either on the basis of consent or on the basis of performance
contract or on the basis of a legitimate interest. The controller provides information about the processing
personal data to the required extent.



The auditors further found that under the loyalty program
automated processing of personal data takes place. Subject
however, the data is not the subject of any decision based solely on
automated processing, including profiling. The controlled person keeps records of
processing activities in accordance with Article 30 of the General Regulation. Except
it has taken technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security
corresponding to the given risk.

By checking
no violation of the general regulation was found.

Links
Control report (UOOU-00893/21) [PDF, 360 kB]


ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Provision of goods and services > Inspection of legal title for processing personal data and others obligations according to the general regulation within customer programs (UOOU-00893/21)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



