1/20

 File No.: EXP202104456

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On August 11, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against FECAM-(FED. DEP.
FOR PEOPLE WITH INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES OF CASTILLA LA
MANCHA) (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: EXP202104456

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 10/24/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against SPORTS FEDERATION FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
INTELLECTUAL OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA-FECAM with NIF G45351236 (hereinafter, the
claimed party). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The claimant states that the claimed entity requests medical data from participants
in their competitions, linked to carrying out antigen tests to detect
Covid-19 situations, without prior consent, without informing about the deadline
of data conservation and without designating a Data Protection Delegate.

It provides a screen print of said Federation, "prevention measures in the
competition" in which it is indicated that "it will be mandatory" to carry out a test of
antigens prior to the participation of all those registered in any championship to
perform in the 48 hours prior to the celebration. This test will be carried out in the town of
origin and will be provided by FECAM. The Club will have to take care that a doctor or
registered nurse carry out the test on all those enrolled and certify the result in writing,
that will have to be sent to FECAM by email in a specific model. If
any registered test positive in the antigen test prior to the championship, from FECAM
will return the amount corresponding to your registration so that this situation does not
entail no cost to him."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/20

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the actions
carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations for the protection of
data.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP) by means of electronic notification, it was not collected by the person in charge,
within the period of availability, understood as rejected as provided
in the art. 43.2 of the LPACAP dated 11/28/2021 as stated in the certificate that works
on the record.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming that
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, under
informative a copy was sent by postal mail on 12/13/2021 that was returned by
absent in distribution, reiterating and being delivered on 01/12/2022.

THIRD: On 01/24/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
admitted for processing the claim presented by the claimant.

FOURTH: On 03/16/2022, the defendant stated:

-The claimant at all times informs and obtains the consent for the treatment of
the personal data of the athletes attached to the FECAM. This information from
 file
processing of your personal data is carried out through
 
 , which is completed and
 
 
 
signed by the athletes, and sent to FECAM. Provide a copy of the letter
completed when applying for registration in the Federation to be the holder of the license of the
Federation, in this case a federated from 02/12/2021, with the name of Club Deportivo.
It does not contain any extreme on the specific treatment of health data, evidence
COVID for competitions. If it contains a section that indicates:

"I authorize as the holder of the license that the Sports Federation for people with
intellectual disability of Castilla la Mancha treat my health data with the purpose of
Manage medical and psychological control to help the gymnast. The data will be understood
that will be used when the federate enters a level of tests, access and
incorporation into high competition.” If so, check the box”.

-Attached as document number 3, screenshots of its web page in which it is
locates a specific section related to COVID-19 on the top button of the website
19 and screenshot of said subpage, where it is accessible for viewing.
download file in PDF format of the "PROTOCOL ADOPTED AGAINST COVID-19"
by FECAM and "certificate model for competitions" that must be completed by
each Club participating in the sports competitions organized by FECAM.” In it
Protocol figure: “8. Roles and responsibilities Given the evolution of the pandemic of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/20

Covid-19, it is recommended to carry out (48 hours before the start of the competition) a
specific Covid-19 test, whose purpose will be to know the situation of athletes and
members of the registered technical teams, and the eventual early detection of possible
positives or outbreaks. Aspects such as the type of test to be carried out, its financing, the
evaluation of its usefulness and if it should be carried out more times later, they will be
determined with sanitary criteria, within the framework of the existing mechanisms of
Coordination with the CCAAs. These will analyze the evolution of infections.

- Due to the pandemic situation caused by COVID 19, FECAM, following the guidelines
established by the "PROTOCOL OF ACTION FOR THE RETURN OF COMPETITIONS
NATIONAL AND NON-PROFESSIONAL OFFICIALS (SEASON
2020-2021)" dictated and published by the SUPERIOR SPORTS COUNCIL (CSD)
(copy in document 4) and signed according to the cover, by: "all the Communities
Autonomous, Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, Sports Federations
Spanish, Spanish Sports Association, Spanish Paralympic Committee, Committee
Olímpico Español and other interlocutors of the sport and organizers of competitions
integrated into the Task Force for the Promotion of Sport of the CSD”, is justified
the request for information to the athletes who register in the competitions.

Said Protocol establishes in its section 8, regarding “Prior medical examinations
to all competition" (page 10 of the aforementioned Protocol) the following: -"8. Acknowledgments
Pre-competition doctors. Given the evolution of the COVID 19 pandemic, the CSD
recommends that in all competitions organized by the FFDDEE (without prejudice to
transfer this recommendation to the rest of the organizers) when starting the pre-training
season or, failing that, 72 hours before the start of the competitions, a
specific COVID 19 test, whose purpose will be to know the situation of athletes and
members of the registered technical teams, and the eventual early detection of possible
positives or outbreaks

Aspects such as the type of test to be carried out, its financing, the evaluation of its usefulness and whether
must be performed more times at a later time (including through a feedback mechanism).
unannounced random tests) will be determined with sanitary criteria, within the framework
of the existing coordination mechanisms with the CCAAs. These will analyze the
evolution of infections in these sports competitions on a regular basis ”.

- The defendant states that "In accordance with state regulations issued by the Ministry of
Health and by the Autonomous Communities themselves on prevention measures and
controls necessary to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19, the
FECAM must have a Sanitary Protocol that identifies the actions
prevention measures and potential contagion situations, following the guidelines
recognized by the health authorities, and in which the measures of
contagion risk treatment adapted to each particular situation.

In accordance with the rules and recommendations issued by the competent authorities, the
FECAM, by means of a responsible declaration, is obliged to comply with the protocol
health and prevention against COVID-19 in their competitions and training sessions”. HE
attached as document 5 the "COVID-19 PREVENTION PROTOCOL FOR

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/20

TRAINING AND COMPETITIONS FOR THE YEAR 2021" which establishes that for
participation in the Championship, it is mandatory that the participants register
officially on the FECAM website, www.fecamclm.es, the signing of "a document of
acceptance of conditions of participation, obligation of information and consent
informed to participate in the activities.

…

8. It will be mandatory to carry out an antigen test prior to the participation of all
those registered in any championship, to be carried out in the 48 hours prior to the celebration.
This test will be carried out in the town of origin and will be facilitated by FECAM. The Club will
You will have to have a doctor or registered nurse perform the test on all
registered and certify the result in writing, which will have to be sent to FECAM by email
on a specific model.
He states that: "That is why all the clubs and athletes attached to them who
have registered to the Competitions and Championships organized by FECAM have carried out
said procedures, have been informed and have given their informed consent, through
of the acceptance of the sanitary norms and protocols adopted, both by the FECAM
as well as by the competent authorities in public health matters
 
 .”

“This informed consent has been obtained by accepting the Protocol and
through the voluntary completion of the registered Athletes and Clubs of acceptance
of the rules of participation and the remission of the following documents to FECAM:

- Personnel Location Form
- Club Manager Certificate.
- Individual responsible statement.
- Covid-19 Antigen Test Test Certificate”

“The Club will have to ensure that a registered doctor or nurse performs the test
to all those registered and certify the result in writing, which will have to be sent to
FECAM by email in a specific model. In this way, the information received
by FECAM regarding antigen test tests prior to competition has been
done:

First.- For the medical services of the clubs, who once again have informed
all athletes affiliated to the aforementioned clubs of the need to carry out
said tests, according not only to the Protocol adopted by FECAM but also according to its
own health protocols adopted and the rules and recommendations set by the
competent health authorities in the matter and, very specifically, the
recommendations adopted by the Higher Sports Council, the Ministry of
Health and the Ministry of Health of the Junta de Comunidades de Castilla La Mancha.

Second.- They have obtained the consent of the athlete attached to their Club and that
register in the championships organized by FECAM in accordance with the FECAM Protocol,
the health regulations and protocols adopted by the Clubs themselves, Law 41/2002, of
11/14, basic regulation of patient autonomy and rights and obligations in
information and clinical documentation and in accordance with current regulations on

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/20

protection of personal data, established both by Regulation EU 2016/679, of
27/04l, General Data Protection as by Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, of
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights.”

-Regarding the claim for the collection and processing of data without specifying the term
of conservation of the data, indicates that the data collected with the DNI, name and
surnames and negative/positive in the tests carried out by the Club, of the athletes who
are going to participate in the competitions, they are referred by the doctor to FECAM through
email to an address that indicates, following the following guidelines:

“1º.- Reception of emails from the clubs.

2º.- Validation of the information: verification that the certificate is signed by the
issuing club.

3º.- Incorporation to the final list of registered athletes of the club those who
present a negative result, provided by the club of origin.

4º.- Secure deletion of the email received from the folder of received items and
from the FECAM mail server.”

- "The FECAM had designated D. ..., internally, to develop the
functions of the Data Protection Officer in accordance with the powers and functions
established in article 39 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation
of Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR). FECAM had not proceeded
to notify the Competent Authority of said appointment when FECAM is not found
within the list of entities that must proceed to the appointment of a Delegate
of Data Protection in accordance with the provisions of article 34.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, nor when carrying out a large-scale data processing of data especially
protected included in article 9 of the GDPR. As a corrective measure, we have proceeded
to the notification to the Spanish Data Protection Agency of the appointment of the
FECAM Data Protection Officer and the incorporation of contact details
of the Data Protection Officer in the privacy policy located in the url
https://www.fecamclm.es/politica-de-privacidad. Likewise, it is proceeding
FECAM to the incorporation of said contact details of the Data Protection Delegate
Data in all character data collection information clauses and legends
personnel used in the different data processing carried out by FECAM.” contributes
copy of the consultation document on the page of the AEPD of the DPD, on 03/14/2022,
including the claimed, and its data as an entity, as well as "contact data of the DPD",
an e-mail, without nomination of person or entity that performs the functions. On his website, from
that provides screen printing, only appears: "contact details of the Delegate
 ", without the
 
 
 of Data Protection
Full description, "
 
 

 ”, and the email.
 
 

 

- "Measures that FECAM has adopted in relation to the requests for information received
of athletes from clubs in relation to not carrying out the necessary antigen tests
for participation in championships. "The defendant has received a request for
opposition to the need for antigen testing by a
federated coach throughout the year 2021, and has proceeded to fully respond to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/20

the same according to the procedures implemented by FECAM to attend such
requests.” Attached as DOCUMENT no. 6 to the present writing the request
received, dated 11/9/2021, anonymizing the applicant's data and list of the
answers given to the applicant. An answer was given to the same through a
initial email and a direct call from the President of FECAM to the trainer
to inform you of the need to perform said antigen test, as had been
carried out by all the athletes affiliated to clubs participating in the
championship organized by FECAM, it being understood by said coach that this
performance of an antigen test was not intended to create a risk to the
coach, but for the protection of the health of all athletes, indicating
Likewise, if said test is not carried out voluntarily, the only
consequence that would be adopted by FECAM is the non-registration of the coach
to said competition.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve this
procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

Article 4 of the GDPR defines:

II

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

1) personal data: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of a
identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) processing: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or
no, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of enabling access, comparison or interconnection, limitation, deletion
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/20

or destruction;

15) data relating to health: personal data relating to the physical or mental health of a
natural person, including the provision of health care services, revealing
information about your state of health;”

In addition, for a thorough understanding of the concept of health data, one must go to
its interpretation of international standards, as specified in article 10 of the Constitution.
Spanish tutoring. The World Health Organization in its Magna Carta defined the term
I define "health" as "the state of complete physical, mental or social well-being, and not only
mind the absence of disease or illness".

It is section 45 of the Explanatory Report of Convention 108 of the Council of Europe, the
which indicates that its concept encompasses "information concerning past health,
present and future, physical or mental, of an individual", "may be information about
about an individual in good health, sick or deceased", adding that "it must be understood
that these data also include information relating to the abuse of alcohol or
to drug use."

It is a broad concept, according to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the
European authorities, Plenary Chamber, of 11/6/2003, case C-101/2001 (Lindqvist Case), in which
It is reasoned that the indication, on an Internet web page, that a person has been
with one foot and is in a situation of partial leave constitutes personal data relating to the
health within the meaning of Article 8(1) of the Directive. That is, according to the aforementioned Tri-
council, the expression data relating to health, used by Directive 95/46 /CE, must
be interpreted broadly, including information relating to the physical aspects
cos and psychics of a person's health.

The athletes who belong to the FECAM have given their data to belong to the same
ma whose rules they accept, and comply with for such membership at the beginning of their incorporation
through the forms-tab declaring data referring to their health, at least that is the case.
follows from the first part, but the purpose of the collection and the content of this data is
distinct and of a different character from the collection that is made on the occasion of the return to the
requests in the course of COVID 19, which is a specific case applicable to each com-
request and without whose practice and previous registration you cannot participate, following,
as stated by the defendant, the CSD protocol, which recommends, does not obligate, remains
meeting the requirements of necessity and proportionality of the establishment of the treatment with-
in accordance with the legal requirements for obtaining said consent, which should be
As defined in article 4.11 of the GDPR:

"Any manifestation of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will by which the
The interested party accepts, either through a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the
processing of personal data concerning you;

In the health crisis situation caused by COVID19, the defendant adopts the measures
measures aimed at preventing new infections of COVID-19, under your instructions.
Considering that the measures must be applied according to the criteria defined by the
health authorities, which are the ones that define the general measures of prevention and hi-
giene, it has to be analyzed if the athletes, by the fact of accepting to be Federated,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/20

it is mandatory due to said circumstances, and to participate in the purchase
request, submit to a test that treats health data by the FECAM, to the am-
stoppage of consent as a means of collecting health data, understanding that if it is not
undergoes said diagnostic screening test, that is, if you do not give your consent and
performs the antigen test, you would not be able to participate in the competition.

Article 3 of the Organic Law 3/1986, of 14/04, on Special Measures in the field of
Public Health, is a norm of coverage of sanitary measures that involve some
restriction of fundamental rights, specifically, when it provides that "in order to
control communicable diseases, the health authority, in addition to carrying out the actions
general preventive measures, may adopt appropriate measures to control the
sick, people who are or have been in contact with them and the
immediate environment, as well as those considered necessary in case of risk
of a transferable nature".

The processing of personal data in situations of health emergency is followed by
being applicable the personal data protection regulations (RGPD and LOPDGDD),
therefore, all its principles, contained in article 5 of the GDPR, and among
them the treatment of personal data with legality, loyalty and transparency, of limitation
tion of the purpose, principle of limitation of the conservation period, and of course, and there is
to place special emphasis on it, the principle of data minimization.

The declaration of the state of alarm through Royal Decree 463/2020, of 03/14, by the
that the state of alarm is declared for the management of the health crisis situation caused by
caused by COVID-19 throughout the national territory, has meant the centralization of the
adoption of the measures provided for therein in a single competent authority for these purposes.
that is, in the Government of the nation and, under the superior direction of the President of the Government.
government, in the delegated competent authorities (the Minister of Defence, the Minister of
Interior, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda and the Minister of Health),
in their respective areas of responsibility, as referred to in article 4 of the aforementioned Royal
Decree, and since its entry into force on 03/14/2020, in accordance with its final provision
third.
In accordance with article 6 of the aforementioned Royal Decree, each Administration will keep
the powers granted by current legislation in the ordinary management of its services.
cios to adopt the measures it deems necessary, within the framework of direct orders
of the competent authority.
Order SND/344/2020, of 04/13, which establishes exceptional measures to
the reinforcement of the National Health System and the containment of the health crisis caused
by COVID-19, agrees both to make available to the health authority of each
Autonomous Community of all those centers, services and health establishments of
clinical diagnosis of private ownership located in them, such as the submission of the
performance of diagnostic tests for the detection of COVID-19 to the guidelines,
instructions and criteria agreed for this purpose by the regional health authority,

The second foundation of the aforementioned Order determines: "Requirements for carrying out
diagnostic tests for the detection of COVID-19.”: The indication for performing
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/20

diagnostic tests for the detection of COVID-19 must be prescribed by a
optional in accordance with the guidelines, instructions and criteria agreed for this purpose by
the competent health authority.

"As indicated in the preamble of that rule, it is intended to limit the
diagnostic tests for the detection of COVID-19 in those cases
in which there is a prior prescription by a physician and meet criteria
established by the competent health authority, thus submitting the regimen
of carrying out this kind of tests to the prior existence of medical criteria that
advise its realization."

II

The GDPR establishes a very broad concept of health data, and gives it a regime
specific, corresponding to the so-called "special categories of data" to which
referred to in article 9 of the normative text.

The GDPR and the LOPDGDD legitimize the processing of health data, or save the prohibition
of the treatment of the health data of those affected, in some of the aforementioned
assumptions, adding that, in addition, like any treatment, it must be adjusted to a
legitimizing legal basis established in article 6.1 of the GDPR, and comply with the principles
general provisions established in article 5 of the aforementioned GDPR.

This article 9 GDPR, after establishing in its section 1 a general prohibition for the tra-
treatment of these data, contemplates, its section 2, a series of exceptions in which the
Data processing is possible, when one of the following circumstances occurs,
(Only those related to the case are referred to).

 “a) the interested party gave their explicit consent for the processing of said personal data.
for one or more of the specified purposes, except where Union Law or
of the Member States provides that the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 does not
it can be lifted by the interested party;
[…]”

c) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another person.
physical, in the event that the interested party is not physically or legally capable,
to give your consent;

g) the processing is necessary for reasons of essential public interest, on the basis of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States, which must be proportional to the objective per-
followed, essentially respect the right to data protection and establish measures
adequate and specific to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the interested party.
sado;

i) the processing is necessary for reasons of public interest in the field of public health;
such as protection against serious cross-border threats to health, or to
guarantee high levels of quality and safety of health care and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/20

medicines or health products, on the basis of Union Law or of the States
member states that establish adequate and specific measures to protect the rights
rights and freedoms of the interested party, in particular professional secrecy.

For its part, the LOPDGGD dedicates its seventeenth additional provision to the treatments
health data, in the following terms: “Seventeenth additional provision.
Health data processing.

1. They are covered by letters g), h), i) and j) of article 9.2 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 the processing of data related to health and genetic data that is
are regulated by the following laws and their development provisions:

a) Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health.
b) Law 31/1995, of November 8, on Occupational Risk Prevention.
c) Law 41/2002, of November 14, basic regulation of patient autonomy and
of rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation.
d) Law 16/2003, of May 28, on the cohesion and quality of the National Health System.
e) Law 44/2003, of November 21, on the organization of health professions.
f) Law 14/2007, of July 3, on Biomedical Research.
g) Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.
h) Law 20/2015, of July 14, on organization, supervision and solvency of entities
insurers and reinsurers.
i) The consolidated text of the Law on guarantees and rational use of medicines and products
sanitary, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015, of July 24.
j) The consolidated text of the General Law on the rights of persons with disabilities and
their social inclusion, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of November 29.”

In the present case, the standards contained in the CSD protocols recommend and the FE-
CAM, in the rules issued for the return to competition, and in the protocol that determines it.
develops, imposes "the athlete as an imperative" the obligation to "provide" a de-
responsible declaration and obliges you to register and send the data through the Clubs, pro-
processing of health data as soon as they are collected, sent and stored
nan.

In addition to the fact that the defendant has not provided any explicit consent from any
athlete with the information on what is consented, and its guarantees, arguing that
would process the data, first, based on the file that they complete to belong to the
federation, it should be indicated that this file does not contemplate the specific purpose, nor the
possibility of withdrawing it, and cannot be classified as "free consent", when there is no
alternative, and the athlete would be left without competing. Consent can only
be valid if the data subject can choose a real option and there is no risk of deception,
intimidation, coercion, or significant negative consequences if you do not
consent. If the consequences of consent undermine the freedom of choice of the
person, consent is not free. Nor can it be proven that due to the fact that
registering in the competition, the athlete "has been informed, and has given his
informed consent, through the acceptance of health regulations and protocols
adopted”,
 
 given that in addition, the provision of consent in this case is "explicit",
 
 
requiring some type of action, a clear affirmative action, nor are the
consequences of refusing to give such consent. The decision by which one
person accepts a data processing operation must be subject to requirements

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/20

strict, taking into account that said decision may imply the waiver of a right
fundamental

 Completion of the responsible declaration that you do not have the disease
as well as carrying out the detection test necessary to participate in the
competitions, appears imposed by the Federation, which does not meet the requirement that alleges
as an exception to the treatment of health data, considering that it violates article
9.2.) of the GDPR.

IV.

Article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes the assumptions that allow processing to be considered lawful.
lie of personal data.

1. Processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data for
one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party is
party or for the application at his request of pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the res-
responsible for the treatment;

d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another person.
it sounds physical;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest.
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued by the user.
responsible for the treatment or by a third party, provided that such interests are not pre-
the interests or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party that re-
want the protection of personal data, in particular when the data subject is a child.

 The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment carried out
by public authorities in the exercise of their functions

The membership of people to the claimed Federation, presupposes in its normal regime,
that your data may be processed for the purpose of your associative relationship, for the purpose of
promotion and extension of the ordinary sports activity, purpose that marks the
treatment of these data, being able to process the data in those cases, which are not the
that are analyzed here, that they postulate as a mandatory measure to participate in the
competitions, in each of them, to submit and provide a screening test
diagnoses as health measures COVID-19. That is, on associative membership
of the collective, the federation treats their data, estimating that this could be
a first legitimizing base of the common group to which they belong, with a legal framework

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/20

to carry out compliance with what is legally established that comes from the
lack of confinement

V

On the other hand, it follows that the defendant considered in this case a purpose
specifically related to COVID 19, has not accredited that it reports the extremes
that must contain the data collection in this case, being able to infringe article 13
of the GDPR which indicates:

"1. When personal data relating to him or her is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time they are obtained, will provide you with all
the information listed below:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection officer, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment for which the personal data are intended and the legal basis of the
treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, in their
case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision of
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of the transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second subparagraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate guarantees and the means to obtain a copy of them or to the
fact that they have been borrowed.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will provide the interested party, at the time the data is obtained
personal data, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this term;
b) the existence of the right to request the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of
their treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to the portability of the
data;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9,
paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any
moment, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the consent
prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a control authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/20

personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing
such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about the logic applied, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.
3. When the person responsible for the treatment plans the subsequent processing of data
personal information for a purpose other than that for which it was collected, will provide the
data subject, prior to said further processing, information about that other purpose and
any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
in which the interested party already has the information”

SAW

In accordance with the evidence available in this act of processing of
agreement to start disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the facts exposed could violate the provisions of the
Articles: 9.2 a), and 13 of the GDPR, with the scope expressed in the Fundamentals of
previous rights, which, if confirmed, could imply the commission of the infractions
typified in article 83 section 5.a) and b) of the GDPR that under the heading "Conditions
rules for the imposition of administrative fines” provides that:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
a company, in an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:
a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent
lien under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22.”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute infractions
the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to this law
organic”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:
“Infractions considered very serious.
"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

[…]

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/20

e) The processing of personal data of the categories referred to in article 9 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, without any of the circumstances provided for in
said precept and in article 9 of this organic law.
[…]

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
and 12 of this organic law. (…)”

VII

Sections d) and i) of article 58.2 of the GDPR provide the following:

"Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers indicated
next: (…)

"d) order the controller or processor that the processing operations
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where applicable, of a
certain manner and within a specified period of time;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;"

In this case, the sanctioning procedure of an administrative fine is resorted to, given the
category of the data that is collected and the risks of the rights and freedoms that with
they are compromised. The imposition of adjustment measures in the treatment is
compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine, according to the provisions of art.
83.2 of the GDPR.

VIII

  The determination of the sanctions that should be imposed in the present case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1) and.2) of the GDPR, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:

 "1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
pursuant to this Article for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in
sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate and
deterrents

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case.
individually, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its
amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/20

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as the number of
affected stakeholders and the level of damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to alleviate the
damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the data controller or processor, given
account of the technical or organizational measures that they have applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor; f) the
degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
through the offence."

 Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled: "Sanctions and
corrective measures":

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in the
section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 also
may be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) Linking the offender's activity with data processing
personal.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/20

 d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of
the infraction.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.

 3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of the
remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, for the purpose of setting the amounts of the sanctions
fine to be imposed in the present case typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, of the
that the defendant is held responsible, for the infringement of article 9.2 of the GDPR, it is
consider concurrent as aggravating factors the following factors that reveal a
greater unlawfulness and/or culpability in the conduct of the defendant:

-Article 83.2.a) GDPR "nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account
account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question,
as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered." The data was collected over a period, affecting all
athletes who have participated in competitions

-Article 83.2 g) “the categories of personal data affected by the
infraction” health data have been collected.

With these factors, a fine of 4,000 euros is deemed appropriate, without prejudice to the
resulting from the instruction.

For the violation of article 13 of the GDPR, they are considered concurrent as
aggravating the following factors that reveal greater unlawfulness and/or culpability in
the defendant's conduct:

-Article 83.2.a) “the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as the
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;”
signifying its severity determined by the absolute lack of informative reference in a
far-reaching measure that affected all partners and that took place for a while
wide, estimating that when activities that involve the processing of data are initiated
personal data, a data controller should always pause to consider which one is going to
be the legal basis for the planned treatment and guarantee the minimum required in
regarding the rights of those affected.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/20

-Article 83.2.b) "intentionality or negligence in the infringement", concurring in this
case of negligence because another conduct other than that of absolutely omitting
any reference.

With these factors, a fine of 2,000 euros is deemed appropriate, without prejudice to the
resulting from the instruction.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTIONING PROCEDURE against FECAM-(FED. DEP. FOR
PEOPLE WITH INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA), with
NIF G45351236, for the alleged violation of article 9.2.a) and 13 of the GDPR, of
in accordance with article 83.5.a) and 83.5.b) of the GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT as instructor R.R.R. and, as secretary, to S.S.S., indicating
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of 1/10 on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector
(LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection
in the actions prior to the start of this disciplinary procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, (LPCAP) the
sanction that could correspond would be 4,000 euros and 2,000 euros, according to
specified, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to FECAM-(FED. DEP. FOR PEOPLE
WITH INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES FROM CASTILLA LA MANCHA), with NIF
G45351236, granting a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the
allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, it may
be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article 64.2.f) of the
LPACAP.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your res-
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the present
startup agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction that pro-
cedes to impose in this proceeding. With the application of this reduction, the
tion of article 9.2.a) of the GDPR would be established at 3,200 euros, and that of article
13 of the GDPR, in 1,600 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/20

sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which will mean the
reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction, the sanction of the
article 9.2 .a) of the GDPR would be established at 3,200 euros, and that of article 13 of the
GDPR, in 1,600 euros, and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the one applicable
charge for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment of responsibility
responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate allegations.
nes to the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the amount referred to in paragraph
above may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In this case, if you
agree to apply both reductions, the amount of the sanction of article 9.2 .a) of the GDPR
would be established at 2,400 euros, and that of article 13 of the GDPR, at 1,200 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated 3,200/2,400 euros or 1,600/1,200 euros must be made effective
by depositing it in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of
the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.,
indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the cause of reduction of the amount to which it benefits.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the Sub-directorate General of Inspection
to continue with the procedure according to the amount entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the date of
initiation agreement or, where applicable, the draft initiation agreement. After that period
its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of actions; in accordance
with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

In compliance with articles 14, 41 and 43 of the LPACAP, it is noted that, hereinafter,
the notifications that are sent to you will be made exclusively electronically by
appearance at the electronic headquarters of the General Access Point of the Administration or
through the only Authorized Electronic Address and that, if you do not access them, it will be
record its rejection in the file, considering the process completed and following the
procedure. You are informed that you can identify before this Agency an address of
email to receive the notice of making the notifications available and that
failure to comply with this notice will not prevent the notice from being considered
fully valid.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

935-110422
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/20

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On October 7, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 3600 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/20

except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202104456, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to FECAM-(FED. DEP. FOR
PEOPLE WITH INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES FROM CASTILLA LA MANCHA).

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

