
On 7 July 2021, at its 51st plenary session, the European Data Protection Board adopted Guidelines on codes of conduct as data transmission instruments. The main purpose of these guidelines is to clarify the application of Articles 40 (3) and 46 (2) (e) of the GDPR. These provisions provide that, after approval by the competent supervisory authority and after general validity by the Commission, the code of conduct may be complied with by both controllers and processors not subject to the GDPR in order to provide appropriate safeguards for data transfers outside EU. These guidelines complement the already existing EDPB Guidelines 1/2019 on a code of conduct establishing a general framework for the adoption of a code of conduct.
The EDPB has adopted the final version of the Guidelines on Virtual Voice Assistants. The aim of these Guidelines is to identify some of the most important compliance challenges for virtual voice assistants and to provide recommendations to relevant stakeholders.
Also after public consultations, the EDPB adopted the final version of the Guidelines on the concepts of processing manager and processing executor. The aim of these guidelines is to provide clarifications regarding basic concepts such as (joint) processing manager and processing executor.
Following the identification of TikTok's main business in Ireland for ongoing cases related to the TikTok application, the EDPB has decided to disband the TikTok working group. This working group was set up to coordinate the potential actions of the supervisory authorities and to gain a more comprehensive overview of TikTok's processing and practices across the EU. At the time this working group was set up, there was no main business for TikTok in the EU, and the working group aimed to facilitate the exchange of information between supervisors. The One-Stop-Shop procedure is now in place and the Irish Supervisory Authority has been designated as the lead body in charge of this case.
In conclusion, the EDPB held a discussion on possible topics for its first coordinated implementation action. Although it has been agreed that the first action will relate to the use of cloud-based services by public sector bodies, further work will need to be done to determine the details and scope in the coming months.

