1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00055/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 2, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against SUSANA PALMA ORTODONCIA S.L. with NIF
B13467626 (hereinafter, the claimed).

The grounds on which the claim is based are "installation of a

video-surveillance cameras” with presumed orientation towards public space.

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the

presence of the devices on the facade of the establishment.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

THIRD: On 11/04/19, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the party
denounced, so that he could allege in law what he deemed appropriate, not receiving
any response in this Agency.

FOURTH: On June 8, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 07/10/20, this Agency received a written statement of allegations from the
defendant, stating the following:

-The installation of the cameras was entrusted to an external company as a result

of the acts of vandalism suffered against the facade and door of the establishment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

-The installation company certifies the legality of the installation in terms of
data protection by applying security masks to the recordings so that the
data collected are "adequate, relevant and limited" (Certification is attached
as Doc. No. 1).

-The facility has sufficient signage indicating the purposes

and the person responsible for processing personal data.

Together with the allegations, it provides a Certificate issued by the installation company
Rentavisión S.L that certifies the legality of the system in the terms set forth (Doc.
evidence no. 1).

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. On 10/02/19, this Agency received a claim from the complainant for
through which he conveys the following suspicions:

“installation of a video-surveillance camera system” with alleged

orientation towards public space” (folio nº 1).

Second. The team is accredited as the main person responsible for the installation.
of Control Rentavisión S. L, who is responsible for the installation of a system of
video surveillance.

Third. According to the defendant, the establishment has the signage
enough informing that it is a video-monitored area.

Fourth. The installed cameras have a privacy mask, collecting the
exterior cameras exclusive images of the facade of the establishment that
manager (Proof document No. 1).

Fifth. All recordings made by the cameras are deleted
automatically in a period of 20 days.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

II

In the present case, the claim dated 10/02/19 is examined by me-
of which the complainant reports as the main fact the following:

“installation of a video-surveillance camera system” with alleged

orientation towards public space.

According to the complainant's criteria, they could be poorly oriented,
consider that they can obtain disproportionate images of public space without
just cause.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
more installed comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with
all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

In any case, the cameras should preferably be oriented towards the
private space, avoiding intimidating neighboring neighbors with this type of device,
as well as control their transit areas without just cause.

With this type of device it is also not possible to obtain image(s) of space
public service, as this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Corps
of the State.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the
It should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is
considers that this type of device may affect the privacy of third parties, which
they are intimidated by it in the belief of being permanently recorded
tea.

III

In accordance with the available evidence, it was considered that the
claimed (a) had a video-surveillance system that could be misguided
ted to public space.

The known facts could constitute an infraction, attributable to the

claimed, for violation of article 5.1 c) RGPD.

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the following provisions
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

EUR 000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount.
to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

For the party denounced, in a letter dated 07/10/20, it is stated that it has
of a video-surveillance system for reasons of security of the establishment, when
have been the same object of vandalism attacks, having the chambers of the mas-
timely privacy faces.

The establishment has an informative poster(s) indicating the person in charge
of the treatment, to which you can go in case of exercise of rights (articles 15-22
GDPR).

It should be remembered that "the data that is subject to treatment through the vi-
surveillance will be treated for the purpose that has motivated the installation of the same.
and that is linked to guaranteeing the safety of people, goods and installations.
nes”.

In such a way that the cameras obtain images of an area proportional to the
facade of the establishment that runs what is essential for the safety of the
same.

IV

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the
punisher and must be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal
or administrative (TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in
any of its manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a
contradictory procedure in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

The mere appreciation of the cameras does not imply that they obtain images
of public space, as they are equipped with privacy masks that limit the
recording area to what is necessary to fulfill its purpose of protecting the
establishment.

v

In accordance with the foregoing, it can be concluded that the denounced system does not infringe the
current regulations on data protection, which is why it is appropriate to order
file the FILE of this procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure, as there will be no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to SUSANA PALMA ORTHODONCIA
SL and INFORM the complainant Mr. A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

