

Bonn, January 9, 2023


Press Release 1/2023


  BfDI takes over the chair of the Conference of Freedom of Information Officers
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) will chair the Conference of Freedom of Information Commissioners (IFK) in Germany in 2023. The main focus of his chairmanship will be the further development of state transparency.



Source: Jens Gyarmaty

The BfDI will pay particular attention to advising the federal government on the further development of the Freedom of Information Act into a transparency law. The BfDI, Professor Ulrich Kelber, said: "This is where the IFK will be able to develop its strengths as a competent advisory body. We need administrative processes in which the publication of information is taken into account right from the start. In Rhineland-Palatinate and Hamburg there are already transparency laws and a lot of experience with the design and implementation. We saw there that switching to proactive publications can give the entire administration a digital boost. Other areas will then also benefit from this.”
In addition to the BfDI, the freedom of information officers of the federal states also belong to the IFK. There are currently fourteen state commissioners, as Bavaria and Lower Saxony do not yet have a general and unconditional right to access information.
The IFK meets twice a year. The meetings of both bodies are generally open to the public. The IFK makes resolutions and recommendations for action on current topics of freedom of information in order to provide new substantive impetus and expand official openness. You can find more information on the IFK overview page.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          Pursue

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











