

Bonn, June 26, 2020


Press release 15/2020


BfDI to evaluate the GDPR
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) Professor Ulrich Kelber welcomes the evaluation report of the European Commission on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). He sees the report as an important step towards further standardization and improved enforcement of data protection.

Professor Kelber said: The GDPR is a great success with at the same time further potential for improvement. Their key objectives have been met, such as increased awareness of data protection or improved enforcement by regulators. The GDPR has established itself worldwide as a model for new legal regulations. Key statements from our own evaluation and the evaluation report of the data protection conference can also be found in the Commission's report. This applies, for example, to deficits in the cooperation between the European supervisory authorities in the European Data Protection Board and possible bureaucratic relief for small and medium-sized companies. It was foreseeable that the legal text of the GDPR should not be changed according to the current status. On the other hand, I see it critically that the European Commission does not comment on some challenges to data protection, such as on the subject of "scoring and profiling".
In its evaluation report, the European Commission also calls on the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) to intensify work on certain topics. These include, for example, the guidelines for special protective measures when transferring data to third countries or the coordination of content when approving so-called Binding Corporate Rules. Even before the report was published and despite the corona pandemic, the EDPB pushed ahead with its work.
The document also contains one of the core requirements of the BfDI: the data protection supervisory authorities must be adequately equipped financially, in terms of personnel and technology. It's time for the various governments to act.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











