11/1

 File No.: PS/00697/2022

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 6, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE ONO,
S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: PS/00697/2022

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and with
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 02/25/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD). The
The claim is directed against VODAFONE ONO, S.A., with NIF A62186556 (in
forward, the claimed party or VODAFONE ONO).

The reason on which the claim is based is the consultation of the solvency file
asset ASNEF that the claimed party made on 09/15/2020 using as
search criteria their NIF and without being legitimized for that treatment. The part
The claimant denies having been a customer of VODAFONE ONO.

In the claim that gives rise to this initiation agreement, the claimant recounted various
behaviors that, in his opinion, violated the regulations for the protection of personal data
personnel and for which two different entities were allegedly responsible: De
one part, the current defendant, VODAFONE ONO, of the conduct that motivates the
opening of this disciplinary file. And on the other, VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A., with
NIF A80907397, of various treatments that gave rise to the processing in front of it
of the disciplinary file PS/00281/2021.

The claimant submitted annexed to her claim numerous documents related to
with the facts stated therein. As regards the conduct of which
holds VODAFONE ONO responsible, provided a document bearing the anagram of
EQUIFAX and the date “11/12/2020”. It contains the results of the searches

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

carried out in that patrimonial solvency file using the NIF as identifier
***NIF.1 (that of the claimant) In the document, in the section "Operations in the
Asnef file", the legend "no data is available" is included. In the section "History of
consultations" a consultation made on 09/15/2020 at 18:40.27.8 is registered. by
“Vodafone Ono, S.A.U.”.

SECOND: On 06/02/2021, the Director of AEPD agrees to admit the
claim made by the claimant.

The claimant was notified of the admission for processing of the claim,
in accordance with the provisions of article 65.5 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5 December
December, on Data Protection and guarantees of digital rights (LOPDGDD),
electronically, the notification being accepted on 06/02/2021. This is stated in the
certificate issued by the Support service of the Electronic Notification Service and
Authorized Electronic Address of the National Currency and Stamp Factory (in
hereafter, FNMT certificate) that is in the file.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Applicable legal standards

The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that govern the treatment of personal data.
personal data, precept that provides:

"1. Personal data will be:
a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner with the interested party (<<legality, loyalty and
transparency>>)
[…]
2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (<<proactive responsibility>>)”

Article 6 of the GDPR under the heading "Legacy of the treatment" specifies in its section
1 the cases in which the processing of third-party data is considered lawful:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

"1. Processing will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:
a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;
d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person.
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.
The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

For its part, the LOPDGDD establishes in article 20, under the heading "Systems of
credit information”:

"1. Unless proven otherwise, the processing of personal data will be presumed lawful.
related to the breach of monetary, financial or credit obligations by
common credit information systems when the following are met
requirements:
to)
[...]
e) That the data referring to a specific debtor can only be
consulted when the person consulting the system maintained a contractual relationship
with the affected party that implies the payment of a pecuniary amount or this would have
requested the conclusion of a contract that involves financing, deferred payment or
periodic billing, as happens, among other cases, in those provided for in the
legislation on consumer credit contracts and real estate credit contracts.
When the right to limitation of processing has been exercised before the system
of the data challenging its accuracy in accordance with the provisions of article 18.1.a) of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the system will inform those who could consult it with
accordance with the previous paragraph about the mere existence of said circumstance, without
provide the specific data with respect to which the right had been exercised, in
both are resolved on the request of the affected party.
f) That, in the event that the request for the conclusion of the contract is denied, or it
will not be held, as a result of the consultation carried out, whoever has
Once the system has been consulted, inform the affected party of the result of said consultation.”

Alleged infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR

II

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

The party claimed in this initiation agreement is charged with an alleged violation of the
Article 6.1 of the GDPR derived from the processing of the personal data of the
claimant that is specified in the query made to the solvency file
asset ASNEF on 09/15/2020 using as search criteria the NIF of the
claimant. According to what was stated by the claimant and without prejudice to the result of
instruction, the aforementioned treatment would not be covered by any of the
legal bases described in article 6.1. of the GDPR.
 
The GDPR requires that the processing of personal data be lawful (article
5.1.a); principle of legality that it develops in its article 6. Section 1 of this
precept establishes that the treatment will only be lawful if any of the
circumstances that are related in it through six sections.

On the other hand, article 5.2 of the GDPR introduces the principle of liability
proactive according to which the person in charge is obliged to comply with the principles that
preside over the processing of personal data (article 5.1) and must be in conditions
to demonstrate compliance. In short, the person responsible for the
treatment the burden of proof of compliance with the obligations imposed
the GDPR.

In the factual case examined, taking into consideration the documentation that
work in the file and without prejudice to the result of the investigation, there are no indications
that the treatment carried out by VODAFONE ONO could be based on any of
the legal bases of article 6.1 of the GDPR.

Based on the information provided by the claimant, it should be concluded that
the treatment object of the claim could not be supported by the circumstance of the
section a) of article 6.1 of the GDPR, the consent of the owner of the data to
that specific purpose, nor in the circumstance described in section f), that the
treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of the legitimate interests of the party
claimed as long as they prevailed over the rights and interests of the
claimant.

In this regard, it is recalled that the claimant has denied that she had been a client of
the claimed. And regarding the application of the legal basis described in section f)
of article 6.1. of the GDPR, would require that VODAFONE ONO had carried out, with
prior to treatment, an analysis, evaluation and consideration, on the one hand, of the
legitimate interest held, and, on the other, of the interests, rights and freedoms
of the owner of the data -the claimant-, and that, as a result of it
would have concluded that their interests prevailed.

However, such weighting would not be necessary under article 20.1.e) of the
LOPDGDD if an iuris tantum presumption of prevalence of the
legitimate interest of VODAFONE ONO. Presumption that is applicable only when
the requirements that configure it and that detail that provision of the
LOPDGDD, precept that establishes:

Unless proven otherwise, the processing of personal data will be presumed lawful.
related to the breach of monetary, financial or credit obligations by
credit information systems when the following requirements are met:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

(...)
e) That the data referring to a specific debtor can only be
consulted when the person consulting the system maintained a contractual relationship
with the affected party that implies the payment of a pecuniary amount or this would have
requested the conclusion of a contract that involves financing, deferred payment or
periodic billing, as happens, among other cases, in those provided for in the
legislation on consumer credit contracts and real estate credit contracts.”
(The underlining is ours)

Thus, the application of article 20 of the LOPDGDD would require that there had been a
contract between the claimant and VODAFONE ONO that implied the payment of a
pecuniary amount or that the claimant had asked the defendant to celebrate
of a contract that implied financing, deferred payment or periodic invoicing.

Based on the statements of the claimant, who denies having been a client of
VODAFONE ONO, the treatment could not rely on any of the causes of
legality mentioned, so that the defendant would have incurred, presumably, in
a violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR.

Thus, in accordance with the evidence available at this stage of
agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, the conduct analyzed, specified in the consultation of the solvency file
asset ASNEF using as search criteria the NIF of the affected party, could
be constitutive of an infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR attributable to VODAFONE
OR NOT.

IV.

Classification of the offense

Violation of article 6.1. of the GDPR that is attributed to the defendant is
typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:
a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”.

For the purposes of prescription, article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD qualifies as a very
Serious “The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”
The limitation period for very serious offenses (article 72.1) is three years.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/6

V

Sanction proposal

The LOPDGDD, article 70, "Responsible Subjects", provides in section 1 that
"They are subject to the penalty regime established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and
in this organic law: a) Those responsible for the treatments.”
 
The corrective powers attributed to the AEPD as control authority are related
in article 58.2 of the GDPR, sections a) to j), among which the precept includes the
power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the GDPR
(article 58.2. i).

In the present case, without prejudice to what results from the investigation, it is estimated that, in
if the alleged infringement of article 6.1 is confirmed. of the GDPR of which
holds VODAFONE ONO responsible, it would be appropriate to impose a fine
administration (article 58.2.i, GDPR).

Article 83 of the GDPR, "General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative", it says in section 1 that the supervisory authority will guarantee that the
imposition of fines for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in the
sections 4, 5 and 6, comply, in each individual case, with the principles of effectiveness,
proportionality and dissuasiveness.
 
The principle of proportionality implies a correlation between the offense and the sanction,
with the prohibition of unnecessary or excessive measures, so that it must be
fit to achieve the ends that justify it. Article 83.2. of the GDPR determines the
technique to be followed to achieve that adequacy between the sanction and the infraction committed and
offers a list of criteria or factors that must be taken into account to
adjust the sanction.

Violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5
of the GDPR, can be penalized with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount. In this regard, it should be noted that the net amount of the figure
of business for VODAFONE ONO in 2019 amounted to €1,301,447,000.

In order to determine the amount of the sanction that would proceed to be imposed, the
concurrence in the present case of the following circumstances that affect the
demandable responsibility and that operate as aggravating circumstances, since they are a manifestation of
greater unlawfulness or greater culpability:

1.- Article 83.2.a): “the nature, seriousness [...] of the offence, taking into account the
nature, [...] or purpose of the processing operation in question, [...];”.

The infringement must be classified as serious given the nature and purpose of the operation
of treatment in which the conduct is specified. The allegedly unlawful treatment
of the claimant's NIF was intended to consult her economic solvency, which
represents a serious intrusion into a person's privacy.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

This assessment is in accordance with the guidelines offered by the Committee's Guidelines 4/2022
European Data Protection Agency (CEPD) for the calculation of administrative fines
under the GDPR, approved for public consultation on 05/12/2022. they take in
Consideration of different factors that affect the seriousness of the infringement, such as the
nature of the treatment, and include in this factor the fact that the treatment
carries higher risks, for example, when the purpose is to monitor, evaluate the
personal aspects or take decisions or measures with negative effects for the
interested. The Guidelines also refer to the purpose of processing by saying
which may lead the supervisory authority to attribute more weight to this factor even in
cases in which the processing of personal data is distanced from what is the
main activity of the data controller, but significantly affects the
assessment of the seriousness of the infringement.

2.- Article 83.2.b): “intentionality or negligence in the offence”.

In compliance with its legal obligations -for what is of interest here at the outset
of legality - the defendant has the obligation to act with the diligence that the
circumstances of the case require and to adopt the technical and organizational measures that
allow them to comply and be able to prove that they have observed the principles of protection of
data. Among the particular circumstances that occur, it should be noted that the
consultation of the solvency file was carried out within the framework of its activities
business.

The judgment of the National Court, Chamber of the
Administrative Litigation, of 10/17/2007 (Rec. 63/2006) that, regarding the degree
of diligence that the data controller is obliged to deploy, remember
that “...the Supreme Court has been understanding that imprudence exists whenever
disregards a legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not behave
with the due diligence. And in assessing the degree of diligence, consideration must be
especially the professionalism or not of the subject, […]”. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

3.- Circumstance of article 83.2.k) GDPR in relation to article 76.2.b)
LOPDGDD: The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
processing of personal data, both clients and third parties.

The concurrence of extenuating circumstances is not appreciated.

Pursuant to the criteria of articles 83.1. and 83.2 of the GDPR, at this stage of the
procedure, and without prejudice to the outcome of the investigation, we believe that the
alleged violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) GDPR
that is attributed to VODAFONE ONO, could be sanctioned with the imposition of a
Administrative fine of €70,000 (seventy thousand euros)

SAW

adoption of measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is noted that not attending to the possible order to adopt measures imposed by
this body in the sanctioning resolution may be considered as a
administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, classified as
infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the opening of a
subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE ONO, S.A.U.,
with NIF A62186556, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR typified in
Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT instructor to R.R.R. and secretary to S.S.S., indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Sub-directorate General of Inspection of
Data in the process prior to the start of this disciplinary procedure.

FOURTH: THAT, for the purposes set forth in article 64.2 b) of the LPACAP, the sanction
that could correspond would be an administrative fine (article 58.2.i, GDPR) for a
amount of €70,000 (seventy thousand euros).

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ONO, S.A.U., with NIF
A62186556, granting a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of the LPACAP.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

reduction, the sanction would be established at €56,000 (fifty-six thousand euros),
resolving the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €56,000 (fifty-six thousand euros) and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at €42,000 (forty-two thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated, €56,000 or €48,000, you must pay it through your
Payment in the account IBAN number: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000 opened in the name of
the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.,
indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for reducing the amount to which
welcomes.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
actions, in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-121222

>>

SECOND: On April 4, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 56,000 euros making use of one of the two reductions
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

provided for in the Startup Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, there has not been
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00697/2022, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ONO, S.A.U..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

937-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

