Legal Office

1

The inquiry raises the issue that the CNE, a state center belonging to the Carlos III Health Institute (ISCIII), carries out its tasks related to the surveillance of certain diseases subject to a mandatory reporting regime (HIV, tuberculosis, etc.) but also in relation to others for which such regulations establishing mandatory communication do not exist at the national level (cancer, cardiovascular diseases). For the identification of risk factors and for the surveillance of these pathologies, they argue, it is necessary to resort to the cross-referencing of clinical and administrative databases. That is, for the performance of its functions, the CNE needs to use various databases, generally containing health information, managed by other public bodies.

The reason for the inquiry lies in understanding the legal basis for the processing of such personal health data, and more specifically, whether there would be a legal authorization from the public bodies that hold these databases for the transfer of the mentioned data without the need for the consent of the data subject, or if the consent of the data subject would be necessary.

I

Article 1 of the Statute of the Carlos III Health Institute, approved by Royal Decree 375/2001, of April 6, establishes that the Carlos III Health Institute is a public research body with the status of an autonomous body, (…) whose mission is to develop and provide scientific-technological services of the highest quality directed at the National Health System and society as a whole (…).

Its functions are provided for in Article 3 of its Statute, which distinguishes between functions 1) as a research body, including [l]the development of studies in public health and health services, or [l]the research on various aspects related to the application of genetic knowledge in diagnosis, therapy, the development of new drugs, and epidemiology. 2) as a health control body in the area of communicable and non-communicable diseases, food and nutrition, environmental and occupational health, health products, biological products, and those potentially dangerous to public health: 3) as a provider and advisor in the field of training and health education: 4) as a promoter and coordinator of biomedical research activities in health sciences; 5) as a scientific and technical accreditation body of a health nature: 6) as a scientific and technical advisory body: 7) as a health information and scientific documentation body.

Legal Office

2

Article 21 stipulates that the execution of research, scientific, technical, and teaching activities entrusted to the Carlos III Health Institute will be carried out through centers or institutes, (…)

Article 25, regarding its budgetary regime, establishes that it will be that established in the General Budget Law for public research bodies as autonomous bodies with special requirements due to the activities of scientific research and technological development.

The CNE is a center created by the Order of December 27, 2001, on the creation of centers in the Carlos III Health Institute. Its seventh article establishes its functions:

Seventh. National Center for Epidemiology.
1. The National Center for Epidemiology has as its ultimate goal to improve the health level of the population through public health surveillance, studying the behavior of diseases (communicable and non-communicable), quantifying their impact, and monitoring their evolution, as well as researching factors that compromise health, and training experts in epidemiology and public health.
2. Its functions are as follows:
a) Development of epidemiological surveillance and management of the National Epidemiological Surveillance Network, as stipulated in Royal Decree 2210/1995, of December 28, in collaboration with the General Directorate of Public Health and Consumer Affairs, the National AIDS Plan, Autonomous Communities, national and international organizations, and the European Union. Proposals and development of specific surveillance systems and editing and dissemination of the "Weekly Epidemiological Bulletin."
b) Coordinate, advise, conduct epidemiological studies, and generate corresponding reports based on available information systems. Conduct studies based on morbidity and mortality, causal studies linked to individual and collective risk factors for the entire National Health System.
c) Epidemiological research on emerging problems, diseases with higher prevalence in the population, and particularly vulnerable groups, proposing public health intervention measures within the National Health System.
d) Provide training and education for experts and researchers in epidemiology and public health. Development and management of the field applied epidemiology program.
e) Collaborate with the General Directorates of Health Planning and Public Health and Consumer Affairs in health information matters.
f) Carry out any actions and studies within its competence as necessary to support the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs and the Autonomous Communities.
Legal Office 

3 

We find that the CNE is part of the ISCIII, which is a research body that can conduct scientific studies, research, etc., as well as other functions: those already specified in Article 3 of its statute. 

II 

The activity in the field of health is generally governed at the national level by Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health Law, whose Article 8 recognizes as a fundamental activity of the health system the conduct of the necessary epidemiological studies to more effectively guide the prevention of health risks, and in the field of Public Health by Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health Law, whose Article 1 defines such a concept as the set of activities organized by public administrations, with the participation of society, to prevent disease as well as to protect, promote, and recover the health of individuals, both at the individual and collective level and through health, sectoral, and transversal actions. 

Title II of said Law 33/2011 establishes a series of public health actions that must be carried out by health administrations: public health surveillance, health promotion, prevention of health problems and their determinants, and it is worth highlighting at this moment, in Chapter IV, Article 23, which promotes collaboration between care services, and among those collaborative activities promotes effective coordination to exchange the necessary information for public health surveillance and about the health situation and its social determinants for better community care action. Well, all those actions related to the participation of health administrations in public health actions are subject to Article 7 regarding respect for the dignity of the person and personal and family privacy. This article adds that the personal information used in public health actions will be governed by the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data and Law 41/2002, of November 14, which regulates the autonomy of the patient and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation. 

III 

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR), defines "personal data" as any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person ("the data subject"); an identifiable natural person is considered to be anyone whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural, or social identity of that person. And "processing" as any operation or set of operations performed on personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated means or not, such as collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, communication by transmission, dissemination, or any other form of enabling access, comparison, or interconnection, restriction, erasure, or destruction. 

Article 4.15 of the GDPR defines health data as: personal data related to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveals information about their health status. 

The consultation therefore raises the legal basis for the processing of a "communication by transmission," that is, a transfer of personal data, of health data. 

Article 9.1 of the GDPR prohibits the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, data related to health, or data related to the sexual life or sexual orientation of a natural person. However, this prohibition shall not apply when one of the circumstances in paragraph 2 occurs, including when the reasons in paragraphs g) to j) of the same are met (that the processing is necessary for reasons of essential public interest; that it is necessary for reasons of the health of the worker or health or social care; for reasons of public interest in the field of public health; or for reasons of archiving in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes, or statistical purposes). All of this, under the terms and conditions established in Article 9 of the GDPR. 

Moreover, the GDPR, recognizing the specific nature of health data, has provided in Article 9.4 that Member States may maintain or introduce additional conditions, including limitations, regarding the processing of genetic data, biometric data, or data related to health. 

Well, in the very recent Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD), published in the BOE on December 6, 2018, the legislator has
Legal Office

5

established in the Seventeenth Additional Provision, Treatment of health data, which:

1. The processing of health-related data and genetic data regulated by the following laws and their implementing provisions is covered by letters g), h), i), and j) of Article 9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679:
   a) Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health Law.
   b) Law 31/1995, of November 8, on the Prevention of Occupational Risks.
   c) Law 41/2002, of November 14, basic law regulating patient autonomy and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation.
   d) Law 16/2003, of May 28, on cohesion and quality of the National Health System.
   e) Law 44/2003, of November 21, on the regulation of health professions.
   f) Law 14/2007, of July 3, on Biomedical Research.
   g) Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health Law.
   h) Law 20/2015, of July 14, on the regulation, supervision, and solvency of insurance and reinsurance entities.
   i) The consolidated text of the Law on guarantees and rational use of medicines and health products, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015, of July 24.
   j) The consolidated text of the General Law on the rights of persons with disabilities and their social inclusion, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of November 29.

This means that the legislator has considered that the processing of data that must be carried out under these regulations using health data or genetic data is covered by the public interest reasons referred to in the GDPR in Article 9.2, in the cited headings. And we already mentioned that the public health regulatory norm also refers to Law 41/2002 of November 14, basic law regulating patient autonomy and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation, which we will refer to later.

The law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health Law, established, and continues to state, (Article 41) that:

1. Health authorities, in order to ensure the best protection of the population's health, may require, under the terms established in this article, reports, protocols, or other documents from health services and professionals for health information purposes.
2. Health administrations will not need to obtain the consent of the affected individuals for the processing of personal data related to health, as well as its transfer to other public health administrations, when this is strictly necessary for the protection of the population's health.
3. For the purposes indicated in the previous two sections, public or private entities shall provide the health authority, when requested, with the personal data that are essential for decision-making in public health, in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data.
In any case, access to medical records for epidemiological and public health reasons shall be subject to the provisions of section 3 of Article 16 of Law 41/2002, of November 14, basic law regulating Patient Autonomy and Rights and Obligations regarding Information and Clinical Documentation.

Therefore, it can be said that the regime for the transfer of data has not essentially changed regarding the need for consent, since the LOPDGDD has simply reinforced the existing regime in the already applicable legislation, as the General Public Health Law, as we have seen, did not require obtaining the consent of the affected individuals for the processing of personal data related to health, including the transfer to other public health administrations, when this was strictly necessary for the protection of the population's health. Similarly, the obligation imposed to transfer personal data related to health in relation to the need for decision-making in public health occurs exclusively when it is essential. Both expressions "strictly necessary" and "essential" highlight the interpretation that must be made regarding the processing of these personal data, as the legislator has not provided for all types of personal data related to health to be freely and without restrictions transferred or transmitted between public administrations, but exclusively for essential reasons.

Consequently, and in the aforementioned terms, the consent of the affected individuals will not be necessary for the transfer by Public Administrations to the CNE of personal data related to health for public health reasons or for epidemiological reasons.

IV

However, it is worth making a specific mention of the regime established in the new LOPDGDD, in its seventeenth additional provision, regarding "data processing in health research." In section b) of this additional provision, there is an express reference to the authorities in public health matters. Well, without prejudice to the application, where appropriate, of
Legal Office

7

the remaining sections (pseudonymization, etc.) of the additional provision, 
letter b) establishes:

b) Public health authorities and public institutions with competencies 
in public health surveillance may conduct scientific studies 
without the consent of the affected individuals in situations of exceptional 
relevance and severity for public health.

The determination of what should be considered as “exceptional relevance and severity” in the field of public health surveillance 
must correspond precisely to the public health authorities and institutions 
entrusted with this task, in accordance with the functions and competencies 
assigned to them by health, epidemiological, or public health regulations 
(which we have already cited in section I of this report). It can be reaffirmed 
that this regulation follows the path regarding the use of personal data set forth 
in the already examined Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health, 
in that it referred to “essential” or “strictly necessary” situations.

In summary, the legislator, in the LOPDGDD, has considered that data 
processing related to health regulated in public health regulations is included 
in the cases of Article 9.2 of the GDPR, but establishing specific considerations 
regarding scientific studies that may be conducted with such health data, for 
which it will not be necessary to obtain the consent of the affected individuals, 
when it concerns situations of exceptional relevance and severity for public 
health, and therefore not when these circumstances do not exist.

V

Lastly, it should be mentioned that the LOPDGDD has also amended 
Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health, regarding data processing 
in health research. The fifth final provision of the LOPDGDD 
introduces a new Article 105 bis, the text of which is:

The processing of personal data in health research shall be governed 
by the provisions of the seventeenth additional provision of the 
Organic Law on Personal Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights.

This ultimately implies a general reference to the regime already 
mentioned for the processing of personal data in health research.

Likewise, the LOPDGDD modifies, in its ninth final provision, Law 
41/2002, of November 14, which regulates the autonomy of the patient and 
rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation, 
giving a new wording to section 3 of Article 16:

3. Access to the clinical history for judicial, epidemiological, 
public health, research, or teaching purposes is governed by 
the provisions of the current legislation on personal data protection, 
and in Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health, and other applicable 
regulations in each case. Access to the clinical history for these purposes 
requires the preservation of the patient's personal identification data, 
separated from clinical assistance data, so that, as a general rule, 
anonymity is ensured, unless the patient has given their consent to 
not separate them. 
The cases of research provided for in section 2 of the seventeenth 
additional provision of the Organic Law on Personal Data Protection 
and Guarantee of Digital Rights are excepted. 
Likewise, the cases of research by the judicial authority in which 
the unification of identifying data with clinical assistance data is deemed 
essential are also excepted, in which case the provisions of the judges 
and courts in the corresponding process shall apply. Access to the data 
and documents of the clinical history is strictly limited to the specific 
purposes of each case. 
When necessary for the prevention of a serious risk or danger 
to the health of the population, the health administrations 
referred to in Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health, 
may access the identifying data of patients for epidemiological or 
public health protection reasons. Access must be carried out, in any case, 
by a healthcare professional subject to professional secrecy or by another 
person also subject to an equivalent obligation of secrecy, upon motivation 
by the Administration requesting access to the data.

In summary, this means that regarding access to clinical histories by 
epidemiological or public health authorities, (i) in general, they must access 
the same while preserving the patient's personal identification data separate 
from clinical assistance information. (ii) The cases of research provided for 
in section 2 of the seventeenth additional provision of the LOPDGDD are 
excepted, which, as we have already mentioned, refer to situations of 
exceptional relevance and severity for public health. (iii) When necessary for 
the prevention of a serious risk or danger to the health of the population for 
epidemiological or public health protection reasons, the law also provides for 
an exception, provided that the stipulations therein are met, and specifically 
in this case, with a prior motivated request from the corresponding health 
administration for access to the data, and always that such access is carried 
out by a healthcare professional subject to secrecy.
Legal Office

9

professional or by another person subject to an equivalent obligation of secrecy. In these cases, if the requirements established by law are met, ultimately, the consent of the affected person will not be necessary.