1/8

Procedure No.: PS/00235/2019
938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00235/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity VODAFONE ESPAÑA SAU. (VODAFONE), with
CIF A80907397, (hereinafter, "claimed entity"), having regard to the complaint filed by
D. A.A.A., (hereinafter, "the claimant"), and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 03/09/19, you had a written entry to this Agency, submitted by
D. B.B.B., acting as representative and father of the claimant in which he was exhibiting,
among others, the following:

“In September 2018, my minor son received a letter from Vodafone
España SAU, in which it informs you that it has contracted with them a debt of 93.77
euros and that in the event of non-payment, it will be included in a list of
delinquent I contacted them to tell them about the case, but far from
pay attention to me, letters continued to arrive stating that either it was paid or it would be
included in an ASNEF file. I filed a claim with the "Service Office
to the Telecommunications User", which agreed with me (N/REF.: RC1020566/18)".

To this claim, the documentation that was already detailed in the writing was provided.
of initiation of the file and in the written resolution proposal.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD). A) Yes,
On 04/02/19, an information request is addressed to the entity claimed.

THIRD: On 07/03/19, the claimed entity sends this Agency
information already exposed in the letter of initiation of the file and in the letter of
resolution proposal.

FOURTH: On 07/19/19, an information request is addressed to the entities
ASNEF-EQUIFAX and EXPERIAN to inform this Agency of the data
that appear in the ASNEF and BADEXCUG files, regarding the claimant.

On 07/24/19 and 08/28/19, this Agency received reports from the companies
indicated above in which they indicate the following, with respect to the claimant:

File

Lack

f low

ASNEF
10/18/18
BADEXCUG 10/21/18

11/16/18
11/18/18

Days
signed up
30 days
29 days

Balance
debtor

Entity
Informant
VODAFONE 93.77 euros
VODAFONE 93.77 euros

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FIFTH: On 09/09/19, a request is addressed to the representative of
claimant requesting to send to this Agency, a copy of the DNI or documentation that
proves the claimant's age at the time the events occurred.

On 09/11/19, the claimant sends this Agency a copy of the DNI of which
appreciates that the date of birth is 12/23/2003, so, on the date of
events occur, (date of registration of the telephone line and date of inclusion of their
personal data in the ASNEF and BADEXCUG files: 01/17/18 10/18/18 and 10/21/18
respectively), the claimant was 14 years old, turned 12/23/17.
 
FIFTH: On 11/04/19, the test practice period began, agreeing-
se: a).-take as reproduced for evidentiary purposes the complaint filed by the de-
advertiser and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated that form
part of file E/3639/2019 and b).- consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the
allegations to the initiation agreement of PS/00235/2019, presented by the entity.

SIXTH: On 01/16/20, the respondent entity was notified of the proposed resolution
tion in which it is proposed that, by the Director of the AEPD, the entity be sanctioned
VODAFONE ESPAÑA SAU, for infraction of arts. 6.1.a) and 5.1.a) of the GDPR,
considered as "very serious", for the purpose of prescription of the same, in article 71.1.a
and b) respectively, of the LOPDGDD. with a fine of 120,000 (one hundred and twenty thousand
euros), in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SEVENTH: Once the proposed resolution has been notified, the entity complained against submits
tions to the proposal on 01/30/20, in the period granted for this purpose, substantiating
essentially the following:

“That the facts are as detailed below: Mr. A.A.A. affirms in his de-
announces that, in September 2018, his son received a letter from Vodafone
informing him that he had contracted a debt of 93.77 euros and that, in the event of
non-payment, it would be included in the delinquent file. Given the lack of payment, finally in the
month of October, their data was included in the delinquency file.

In the Resolution Proposal, the Agency maintains that “the entity claiming
The respondent has processed the claimant's personal data without their consent.
feeling, after having tried to cancel the services provided and that
In addition, said treatment was carried out illegally and not loyally in relation to the
inclusion of the same in the solvency files.” Reason for which he is charged
I represent the infringement of articles 5.1 and 6.1 of the RGPD.

The registration in the services occurred on January 27, 2018, due to an error made
by himself, as long as he registered for the line by including the personal data of his
child, a minor, instead of their own.

It was Mr. A.A.A. himself. who requested the registration of the mobile line, through the online store
Vodafone line, providing of his own initiative the personal data of his son to my re-
presented. Note that Mr. A.A.A. was not a previous Vodafone customer,
therefore, my client did not have any personal data of the claimant in their systems.
plus. This means that, in no case, Vodafone was able to assign or associate other data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

personal than those Mr. A.A.A. completed at the time of managing the discharge
of the services through the Online Store.
 
In the same way, if it had not been for the contracting carried out on behalf of the claimant,
However, my client would not have been able to obtain the data of the minor.

As evidenced by the brief of Allegations of the Agreement of Initiation, re-
issued by this party to the Agency on October 16, 2019, realizing that
your mistake, Mr. A.A.A. contacted Vodafone on February 12,
2018 (barely only two weeks after discharge), and informed my client about
your error in registering the line by providing your child's data. Whereupon, my representative
tada offered him the possibility of changing the type of line contract, from postpaid to
prepayment, the claimant expressly consenting to said change.

So much so, that said acceptance was recorded in the internal systems of my representative.
sitting, processing that same day the opening of a change of postpaid line
prepaid, and processing the delivery of a SIM card at home

By virtue of which, it is thus accredited, again, the consent granted
by Mr. AAA, that is, said hiring was admitted and wanted by him.
It is also understandable that, if the claimant had not wanted
change the line from postpaid to prepaid, I would have returned the SIM card
received, or had expressed its refusal to my client in one way or another.
 
Being up to this point clearly a consensual hiring by Mr.
A.A.A., and without having received any type of communication from my client
for a whole year, Vodafone receives a resolution issued by the SETSI,
as a result of a claim filed by Mr. AAA.

Said notification is received on 02/08/19, as we have mentioned, one year later,
being required in the same to my client to proceed to the lowering of the mobile line
vil, and a payment is made for the amounts invoiced to the claimant, as well
made by Vodafone immediately when managing the cancellation, carrying out the
payment and confirm that the minor was not included in solvency files on
02/15/19.

It is fully observable that Vodafone acted at all times in accordance with
requested by the claimant, and that clearly said contracting had the
consent of Mr. A.A.A., not once, but in three moments:

i) when you acknowledge having registered online by mistake;
ii) when you agree to change the line contract from postpaid to prepaid and
iii) when he receives and confirms that the SIM has been delivered to his address, without indicating the denial.
tive before said reception.

Specifically, this party wants to emphasize that the actions it has carried out in
at all times are considered diligent, without having proceeded to a treatment of
the data that may be considered erroneous or in bad faith, but has been adequate
to what the claimant required of my client at all times.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

In short, from the description of the facts made and the documents provided
Throughout the entire procedure it can be observed and this part reiterates that for par-
Vodafone there has been no fraud or intent.

What is appropriate is that the Agency agrees to dismiss this file and
the file of the actions since the facts have occurred without intention
some by my represented being the origin of all this is the discharge managed
by mistake in the Online Store by Mr. A.A.A. on behalf of his son.

Subsidiarily and in the event that despite the explanations previously given,
cilitadas, the Agency understood that my client is deserving of a sanction
for the commission of infringement of articles 5.1 and 6.1 of the RGDP, the amount of said
The sanction must be moderate, imposing its minimum amount, taking into account
the following circumstances set forth in art. 83.2 of the RGPD: The treatment has
carried out at a local level and that there is no intention on the part of Vodafone in the
claimed rights that, on the contrary, cause my client clear damages.
By virtue of the foregoing, I REQUEST to proceed to agree: (i) dismissal of the
tooth and filing of proceedings, (ii) subsidiarily, a reduction of the sanction is
initially stipulated, taking into account the aforementioned mitigating factors.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

a).- Regarding the minority of the claimant:

PROVEN FACTS

The claimant's date of birth is 12/23/03, so on the date
of the events, (date of registration of the telephone line and date of
inclusion of your personal data in the ASNEF and BADEXCUG files:
01/17/18; 10/18/18 and 10/21/18 respectively), the claimant was 14 years old,
completed on 12/23/17, so he did not need parental consent
or guardians for the treatment of the personal data of the minor.

b).- Regarding the unauthorized processing of the personal data of the claimant,
to contract a mobile line, of the documentation presented and of the internal notes
of the company, the following is verified:

1st. On 01/27/18 there was a registration in Vodafone services, at
through the online store, in the name of the claimant. This registration is made by
the father.

2nd. On 02/12/18, the father calls the company indicating the error in the
registration and your intention to cancel the services. Whereupon, Vodafone offers you
the possibility of changing the type of line contract, from postpaid to prepaid,
consenting the claimant.

3rd. Dated 10/17/18, the complainant receives a letter from ISGF Informes
Comerciales SL, in which they claim a debt with Vodafone, informing you,
among others, that: "in case of not paying the debt within 10 days,
VODAFONE could include your data in a financial solvency file
and credit”. Said period, therefore, would end on 10/27/18.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

4th. On 10/17/18, the claimant's father files a letter with the
Secretary of State for Digital Advancement (SEPAD), in which it denounces that:
“VODAFONE has proceeded to register some services in the name of your child without
your consent and has transferred them to a collection management company that
requires the payment of 93.77 euros”.

5th. On 10/19/18, the claimant receives a notification from ASNEF, where
inform you that: “We inform you that on 10/18/18 the entity
VODAFONE has requested registration in the ASNEF file of personal data
related to the non-payment of the contract that it maintains with said entity for an amount of
93.77 euros”.

6th. On 10/23/18, the claimant receives a notification from EXPERIAN,
where they inform you that: "An operation has been incorporated into this file in the
that a payment default has occurred and in which you intervene,
Entity: VODAFONE Amount: €93.77.

7th. On 02/08/19, SEPAD issues a resolution in which, among others, it indicates
that Vodafone has not proven at any time, that the claimant had
You have given your consent for the processing of your personal data during
the 13 months that the mobile line was active. It is also indicated in the resolution
solution that: “The claim regarding the activation of the
services by VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., on behalf of the claimant,
regarding unsolicited discharge, recognizing the claimant's right to
obtain immediate cancellation of the unsolicited service, as well as not to pay the
invoices that VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. may have issued, owing this
proceed to its return in the event that the subscriber has paid them
Already".
8th. Dated 02/08/19, the claimant's father makes a call to
Vodafone to communicate the facts and cancel the line. but the company
alleging that there was also a request for "registration of fiber", associated with the
phone number, kept the line active and continued to bill it until the
02/15/19, (7 days), when he proceeds to cancel the line and regularize the
billing.

c).- Regarding the inclusion of the personal data of the claimant in the files of
capital solvency, ASNEF and BADEXCUG, it is verified that:

- The complainant received a letter, dated 10/17/18, from the company ISGF
Informes Comerciales SL, in which they claimed a debt in favor of
Vodafone, granting him a period of 10 days to regularize his situation.
Otherwise, they indicated that their personal data would be incorporated into
capital solvency and credit files.
- Despite granting him a period of 10 days to regularize his presumed situation
debtor with Vodafone, as of 10/17/18, Vodafone included its data
personal data at ASNEF the next day, on 10/18/18, and at BADEXCUG, on
10/21/18, 4 days later, without meeting the deadline granted to the claimant for the
payment of the presumed debt.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

- The personal data of the claimant was included in the ASNEF file
for 30 days (from 10/18/18 to 11/16/18) and in the file
BADEXCUG, for 29 days (from 10/21/18 to 11/18/18).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

II

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
knowledge of the AEPD a vision of the denounced action that has been reflected
jada in the facts declared proven above related.

However, in this case, and in response to the allegations presented by the
claimed entity, it is necessary to re-emphasise the following points:

The entity admits that, through the online store, a mobile line was registered to
name of the claimant and who remained discharged from 01/17/18 to 02/15/19.
However, even SEPAD, in its resolution dated 02/08/19, indicated that,
At no time, Vodafone had been able to prove that the claimant or his
representative (in father, in this case), had given his consent for the
processing of personal data during the 13 months that the line was active
mobile.

However, everything indicates that if there is a registration in Vodafone services on 01/27/18,
in the name of the claimant, made by the father. But on 02/12/18 (15 days later),
the father calls the company indicating the error in the registration and his intention to cancel
services. Whereupon, Vodafone offers you the possibility of changing the type of con-
treatment of the line, from postpaid to prepaid, and depending on the entity, the parent consents.

On 10/17/18, the claimant receives a letter from ISGF Informes Comerciales SL, in which
claiming a debt with Vodafone, informing him, among other things, that: “in the event of
not pay the debt within 10 days, VODAFONE could incorporate your data
in a file of patrimonial solvency and credit”, before which, the father presents a
complaint before the Secretary of State for Digital Advance that resolves, on 02/08/19
estimating the claim. That same day, the claimant's father gets in touch
contact with the entity to communicate the facts and cancel the line but it is not
until after 7 days (02/15/19), when Vodafone proceeds to execute the request
of the father.

Apart from the unauthorized treatment of the personal data of the claimant indicated
in the previous points, there is also an improper inclusion of your data in the
ASNEF and DADEXCUG asset solvency files, since the claimant received the
prior request for payment dated 10/17/18, granting a period of 10 days
to remedy the presumed non-payment, but only one day later, Vodafone includes
the personal data of the claimant in the ASNEF file and 4 days later in the
DADEXCUG file, without waiting for the 10 days granted.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

As regards the company's request to apply as extenuating circumstances the
points collected in art. 83.2 of the RGPD: a) The treatment has been carried out locally
tea. b) There is no intent on the part of Vodafone in the facts claimed.
two that, on the contrary, cause my client clear damages indicate that, the
treatment carried out locally refers to treatment circumscribed to a certain
state of the EU, in this case Spain, so it is not appreciated to consider it as
mitigating factor, and with regard to non-intentionality on the part of Vodafone, indicate
that negligent action by the company has been proven.

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data

 :
RESOLVE
 

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity VODAFONE ESPAÑA SAU. (VODAFONE), with
CIF A80907397, a penalty of 120,000 euros (one hundred and twenty thousand euros), for infringement
tion of articles 6.1.a) and 5.1.a) of the RGPD, considered as “very serious”, for
prescription of the same, in article 71.1.a and b) respectively, of the LO-
PDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity VODAFONE ESPAÑA
SAU. and, and INFORM the claimant of the outcome of the claim.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that the sanction imposed must make it effective
Once this resolution is executed, in accordance with the provisions of art.
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure Co-
Public Administrations (LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period that
points out article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal De-
decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, by depositing it in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the Bank
CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will be collected in the executable period.
crop.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of December 30,
bre, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, this Resolution is
will make public, once it has been notified to the interested parties. The publication is made
will be in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of December 22, of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection on the publication of its Resolutions.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may interpose
have, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection within a period of one month from the day following the notification

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

fication of this resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

