 

"Change Your Password Day" on February 1, 2021

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection,
Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri, recalls the importance of safer
passwords and tips
 

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, January 29, 2021

Since the beginning of the corona pandemic, many citizens have been buying
Citizens increasingly on the Internet. It is all the more important to have access to
Make online shops safe. This also applies to online banking,
E-mail inboxes and other internet services and platforms.

Prof. Dr. Petri: “You should use the change-your-password-tag as an occasion
at least change simple and insecure passwords. In addition
should users change their passwords in particular,
when you learn that passwords of a certain service have been stolen
or if you notice any suspicious activity.”

You should pay particular attention to the following when choosing your passwords:

 Use an individual password for each service.

 Use passwords that are as complex as possible. Get creative and

form, for example, from the first letters and
punctuation marks of a sentence a password (e.g. "Every day I walk around
12 o'clock home!" = JTgiu12Uh!). Convert specific letters to
Numbers (e.g. always converting the first letter into a
Number in alphabetical order: Every day I leave at 12 o'clock
home! = 10Tgiu12Uh!, because the letter "J" is the tenth in the alphabet
position).

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from January 29, 2021 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
 The longer the better: Use at least eight characters.

 
 Whenever possible, use 2-factor authentication.

If you email accounts for resetting credentials
use, protect them with strong authentication.

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

