 
Who does what with my data?

New guidance on the right to information
according to the General Data Protection Regulation

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, December 18, 2019

"Who does what with my data?" - This is the question Bavarians ask themselves
Fortunately, citizens are becoming more and more frequent. Answer gets who
asks: Art. 15 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) gives up a right
Information – also to Bavarian public authorities.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection has to Art. 15
DSGVO already many inquiries from citizens, but also
answered by authorities. He now has his consulting practice in a
comprehensive guide "The right to information according to the data
General Protection Regulation". The paper relates about that
to numerous issues discussed in case law and literature
Position.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: “The right to information according to Art. 15 GDPR
plays a key role in the rights of those affected. First with
information, the lawfulness of processing of the own
realistically assess personal data. The information
also creates a prerequisite for the use of other data subjects
rights, in particular to rectification and erasure. I hope the
new guide helps Bavarian public authorities to
to process future requests according to Art. 15 DSGVO quickly and legally
ten.”

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from December 18, 2019 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
The guide "The right to information according to the data protection
Basic Ordinance" is on the homepage of the Bavarian State
 
commissioned for data protection (https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de) in the
Section "Data Protection Reform 2018" available for free download.

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

