Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

 

 

Ansbach, August 10, 2018

 

press release

 

BayLDA extends hotline for clubs and volunteers

The Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) has from July 9th

Hotline set up in 2018 for clubs and volunteers by three months

November 2018 extended.

 
 

 

Even if the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which also applies to associations and voluntary

term is relevant, has been known for over two years, have many clubs and volunteers

it was not noticed until May of this year when it took effect. Conditionally also

due to a large amount of incorrect information about the specific requirements,

official sector, there is considerable uncertainty as to what requirements the new European

European data protection law to clubs and volunteers.

 

In the last few weeks, the BayLDA has therefore distributed numerous information

events with up to 550 participants about the new law (and what

always applied, but was not really observed), the information on the homepage

ge (www.lda.bayern.de) and installed a hotline, which is available under the number 0981-531810

was and is achievable.

 

This hotline was not used to the extent that we had expected. But she asks

nevertheless a targeted information option and relief for the BayLDA office

We have therefore decided to continue this hotline for another three months in a

may offer appropriate scope. This means that the "Hotline for clubs and voluntary

lich Active in Bavaria” in the new service hours from Monday to Friday from 09.00 to 09.00

4 p.m. remains in place. For callers who cannot get through during this time

men, we have installed a mailbox where you can leave your number, under which you can then

prompt call back.

 

This should make it possible for all those responsible in the club and voluntary sector to

be able to provide sufficient information about which requirements they specifically fulfill under the GDPR

have to len. Then you should too.

 

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 27
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 53 1300
Fax +49 (0) 981 53 98 1300
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

In order to be able to devote more attention to the topics associated with risky data processing

are connected, which is rarely found in the club and voluntary sector, the

That's why information events like the ones we've been offering over the last few weeks

mostly discontinued.

 

The General Data Protection Regulation obliges those responsible, i. H. those with personal

handle the personal data of others to comply with data protection regulations.

This obligation also applies to associations, represented by the respective board members.

 

"We assume," says Thomas Kranig, President of the BayLDA, "that the information

on our homepage and the additional option to ask questions on the now extended hotline

provide sufficient assistance to ensure that the volunteers in the clubs are able to

manageable requirements according to the GDPR in their respective organizations well and easily

to be able to fulfil.”

 

 

Thomas Kranig

president

