1/19

 Procedure No.: PS/00003/2020

RESOLUTION R/00522/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In the sanctioning procedure PS/00003/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to PLAY ORENES, S.L., given the claim filed by
CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1, and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 12, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against PLAY ORENES, S.L.
Notification of the initiation agreement and after analyzing the arguments presented, dated
On September 29, 2020, the proposed resolution was issued as follows:
transcribe:

<<

Procedure no.: PS/00003/2020
926-300320

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 16, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency
 TOWN HALL OF
of Data Protection a document presented by
***LOCALIDAD.1 (hereinafter, the claimant), through which he formulates
claim against PLAY ORENES, S.L. with NIF B73002099 (hereinafter, the
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed in CALLE
*** ADDRESS.1, regarding which there are indications of a possible breach of the
provided in the data protection regulations.

The reasons underlying the claim are as follows:

"That different residents of this town have repeatedly stated before
this City Council that the company Play Orenes S.L.U, with NIF B73002099, company
dedicated to sports betting, has installed in its premises located in ***LOCALIDAD.1,
Street ***ADDRESS.1, video surveillance cameras that due to their positioning and
characteristics seem to be covering an important part of the public thoroughfare, more

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/19

beyond the strict access that, due to the surveillance of the building's façade, could
be considered adequate.

Faced with this situation, and after assessing the situation with the Municipal Police,
decided to go to check this point at said premises, in order to confirm the
existence of privacy masks. In person at the premises, on August 9,
We were not allowed access to the images, for which purpose a record of the
municipal police of the date.”

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), being notified on 11/21/2019.
On 12/18/2019, the respondent received a written response in which he stated
that:

«[…] 4. Number and characteristics of the cameras. In the event that it is
fictitious cameras must provide the invoice, purchase receipt or any other
document that serves to prove that they are fictitious.
The aforementioned establishment has a total of 16 CCTV cameras. In
Regarding fictitious cameras, inform that the establishment does not have
none of them. (See ANNEX Nº1: Sketch of the installation and quadrant of
camera shots).

5. Scope of the cameras and places where they are installed, accrediting
by means of photography of the images captured by the cameras, as
displayed on the monitor or equivalent system, that the space for
catchment so as not to affect adjoining land and houses, public roads or
any other foreign or reserved space.

Of the four chambers that the establishment has oriented towards the
accesses, indicate that one of them is installed inside the
establishment and the other three on the façade focusing only on the two
pedestrian accesses and minimally public roads as can be seen
in the attached frames, dated 2019-11-25/17:14 hours.

6. Indicate the term of conservation of the registered images.

The period of conservation of the images of the recorder is 19 days;
maximum capacity programmed depending on the quality and number of cameras
that supports said recorder.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/19

In our Privacy Policy regarding Video Surveillance of all
centers of Play Orenes, S.L., it is determined that the images will be kept
a maximum term of 30 days.

(See ANNEX No. 2: Video surveillance privacy policy)

7. Any other information that you consider of interest to assess the
adequacy of the installation of video surveillance cameras to the regulations
of data protection.

It should be noted that, on the part of our Security Department,
So far this year, a total of 760 Police Officials have been processed,
received from both the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard. In large
part of said requests, were aimed at interests unrelated to this
Company, and yes for Citizen Security. Mention that, in
these requests for collaboration, have required the contribution of the
images captured by the exterior cameras accessing the different
establishments, being able to clarify how it can be accredited, numerous
criminal acts investigated by police units throughout Spain in
for the safety of citizens.

Regarding data protection, I attach the description of the
treatment, as well as their impact assessments describing the measures
technical and organizational that are part of the treatment, as well as the
different risk analyzes carried out on it.
(See ANNEX No. 3: Record of treatment activities: Video surveillance)

(See ANNEX No. 4: Basic risk analysis: Video surveillance)

(See ANNEX No. 5. Analysis of risks and need for EIPD: Video surveillance).»

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of January 8
of 2020.

FOURTH: On March 12, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which it is shown that:

«[…] FIRST.- Nullity of the procedure.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/19

It is manifested in the antecedents of the notified resolution that by this
Administration, prior to the claim being processed
that has given rise to this sanctioning procedure, was transferred to
PLAY ORENES S.L. of the existing claim - filed by the
City Council- and in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), being
notified such claim on 11/21/2019:

Well, the truth and truth is that it has never been notified to Play
ORENES SL any claim, and only on the date indicated
(11/21/2019) we were notified of a “request for information” (CVS:
***CVS.1), whose copy is attached as document nº1:

In response to that request for information - and not to any claim -,
This company filed a reply brief on 12/18/2019, whose
a copy is attached as document no. 2.

Therefore, PLAY ORENES has never been aware of a claim
any with respect to the cameras installed in your establishment nor, therefore,
He has not been able to make any arguments in his defence.

In view of the foregoing, it is evident that this Administration has not acted, as
and as indicated, in accordance with article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD,
violating the right of defense of my client, who has seen as
respond to a request for information, a procedure has been initiated
sanctioning party based on a claim of which he has not even had
knowledge or ability to defend themselves.

In this sense, the jurisprudence of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court has
declared that no one can be sentenced without being heard (Sentences, among
others, of November 30, 1995, November 5, 2001, June 17,
2002 and June 28, 2002), finding the nullity of the act from which it derives
this helplessness justified by the fact that my client has not been
given the opportunity to assert their own arguments and to use
the pertinent means of proof for the defense of their rights and interests
legitimate protected by the article. 24.1. of the Spanish Constitution.

In this regard, the Judgments of the Constitutional Court number 31/1984,
48/1984, 70/1984, 48/1986, 155/1988 and 58/1989: […]

For all of the above, we understand that this file does not conform to the
legally established procedure whenever there has been no
compliance with article 65. 4 LOPDGDD and this despite the fact that this
Administration reiterates on several occasions - at the initiation of this
sanctioning party - that it has done so.
 
It is enough for this Administration to verify in its registry and content of the
telematic notification on the day made (11/21/2019) to check what

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/19

this company defends: it only moved to PLAY ORENES S.L. A request of
information.

The agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure includes in its
factual background FIRST, SECOND and THIRD the processing of
a previous file in accordance with the aforementioned article 65 LOPDGDD,
admission to processing of a claim from a third party and after that understands that
This sanctioning procedure must be initiated.

However, this is not true and therefore the resolution that initiates this
disciplinary file nor the previous file do not adjust neither to the reality of
the facts nor to article 65 LOPDGDD.

Therefore, it is in accordance with law that the agreement of
initiation of sanctioning procedure notified, proceeding to file the
procedure, every time it brings cause of a previous file that was not
adjusts to the legally established procedure (article 65 and concordant),
suffering as a result of a vice of nullity or, failing that,
cancellation ex article 47 and 48 of Law 39/2015, of October 1.

SECOND.- Compliance with the exception established by article 22 of
the LOPDGDD

This Administration states that the claim that has given rise to the
present procedure - to insist that it was never notified to us - is based on the
“alleged illegality of the installation by my client of a system
of video surveillance, composed of four cameras located in the premises located in
STREET ***ADDRESS.1, which could capture images of the public thoroughfare of
disproportionately, capturing not only the entire width of the sidewalk (if
narrow) (in all of them) but also to parked vehicles
adjoining it (in two of those installed on the façade)”.

In this sense, it is worth remembering article 22 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes the
Next:
"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
image processing through camera systems or video cameras with
the purpose of preserving the safety of persons and property, as well as
your instalations.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that
is essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture the public road in an extension
superior when necessary to guarantee the security of goods or
strategic installations or infrastructures linked to transport, without
that in no case can suppose the capturing of images of the interior of a
private home.”

Well, due to the nature of the business of this company and following the
indications of the LOPD, my client complies with the exception

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/19

contemplated by article 22 that allows the recording of a minimum portion
of public roads whenever it is essential to guarantee the purpose
of security.

Serve as justification, that on some occasions and due to the design of
public roads, when cameras are installed on the façade,
these capture minimally or partially the sidewalks, since they are not
There are few occasions when criminals take advantage of parked vehicles
at the entrance of the establishment to hide and rob or assault
our employees and customers at the entrance or exit of the establishment. In
In this sense, it should be remembered that we are dealing with an establishment that combines
the hotel and gaming activity, being necessary to collect almost
daily of the machines installed in the same causing that the personnel of
collection -and even customers- are or may be the object of robberies to their
exit. That is why compliance with the security purpose of the
cameras requires a plus or reinforcement always within the permitted margins
by article 22.

In proof of the foregoing, it is attached as document No. 3,
report from the security department of my client where it is justified
the need to guarantee the security of the establishment through the
placement of certain cameras and their compliance with the
legally required measures.

As indicated in the attached report, the implementation of the measures of
security in each establishment is a decision of the security department
in collaboration with the data protection officer of the Orenes Group,
thus guaranteeing compliance with legal requirements in both areas
normative. It is a decision that responds to technical and specialized criteria,
measuring in any case the scope of the exception regulated in article 22.

THIRD.- Disproportionality of the sanction

Subsidiarily, and in the event that this Administration
the commission of some type of infraction by this merchant will be appreciated,
the disproportionality of a penalty of 20,000 euros would be flagrant, the
which is absolutely excessive and devoid of any motivation, resulting
be arbitrary.

This Administration does not justify the reasons that support the seriousness of
such sanction, taking into account that:

- Claim of any kind was never notified -preventing my
represented to be able to exercise their right of defense

- There is no recurrence

This contravenes the principle of proportionality established by the
Article 29.3 of Law 40/2015 of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector, which provides that, in the imposition of sanctions, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/19

Public Administrations must observe the due suitability and necessity
of the sanction to be imposed, and its adequacy to the seriousness of the constituent act
of the infraction; operating for the graduation the guilt, intentionality, the
persistence, damage caused, or recidivism. In this sense,
warn this Administration that it is not appropriate to try to justify the
graduation and severity of the sanction here proposed, bringing up the
existence of 16 files – which, as you indicate, are of a non-
sanctioning – related to video surveillance systems installed in
establishments owned by my client.

- Absolute good faith by my client. If the above is not enough, we
we find that the present procedure comes from the answer
exhaustive by my client of a request for information, the
which and surprisingly, according to this Administration, it was about
a claim (See document no. 1).
 
It would not be idle to recall that the principle of proportionality performs,
in the field of Sanctioning Administrative Law, a capital role and this is not
only as an expression of some abstract powers of application of the Law
in terms of fairness, but because of the concrete fact that the sanctions against
impose are defined in our legal system, in general, in
extremely flexible way, in such a way that the same behavior can be
deserve the imposition of very diverse sanctions and that move in
very wide margins and that, for the same reason, can result, in practice, from
extraordinarily diverse amount and period. The principle of
proportionality imposes that since the sanctioning activity of the
Administration a discretionary activity, but an activity typically
legal or application of the rules, (this is recognized by our Court
Supreme Court in Judgments of December 23, 1981 [RJ 1981, 5453], December 3,
February 1984 [RJ 1984, 1027] and April 19, 1985 [RJ 1985, 1716]), the
factors that must govern its application are based on what is available
the Legal System in each sector in particular and, very especially, in
the concurrent circumstances.

The Supreme Court has declared in its Judgment of July 29, 2014
(Chamber of Contentious-Administrative, Section 1), regarding the principle of
proportionality, that:

“The principle of proportionality plays, in the field of Law
Administrative Penalty, a capital role and this not only as an expression
of some abstract powers of application of the Law in terms of equity,
but because of the concrete fact that the sanctions to be imposed are
defined in our system, in general, in an extremely
flexible, in such a way that the same conduct may deserve the imposition of
very diverse sanctions and that move in very wide margins and that, for
the same, can result, in practice, in amount and period
extraordinarily diverse. The principle of proportionality requires that
not be the sanctioning activity of the Administration an activity
discretionary, but a typically legal activity or application of the
norms, (this is recognized by our Supreme Court in Judgments of 23 of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/19

December 1981 [RJ 1981, 5453], February 3, 1984 [RJ 1984, 1027] and
April 19, 1985 [RJ 1985, 1716]), the factors that must preside over its
application are based on the provisions of the Legal System in
each sector in particular and, very especially, in the circumstances
concurrent.”

It must be remembered, as referred to in the Judgment of the TSJ of the Balearic Islands,
Contentious-Administrative Chamber, Section 1, of July 25, 2006, that:
“The Constitution, which has recognized the legitimacy of sanctions
administrative, has been careful to underline the regulated nature of the
sanctioning power of the Administration: not that the Administration has
“freedom” to choose between different but equally fair solutions
-legally indifferent-. All the action of the Administration in the
sanctioning ground is thus regulated.”
 
It is evident that in the present case there is no circumstance that
justify the imposition of such a serious sanction and perhaps for this reason it is not
reason for this Administration
.
Be that as it may, and despite the absence of an express requirement by this
Administration, in order to demonstrate the good faith of my client,
states that he proceeded to withdraw the outer chambers of the
establishment, as evidenced by document No. 4. […]».

The report issued by D. AAA, a member of the Department of Security and
responsible for processing images of the Grupo Orenes establishments,
attached as document no. 3 states, fundamentally, that the company is
complies with the data protection regulations in the installation of its systems of
video surveillance being sometimes necessary to capture a minimum portion of the road
to guarantee the safety of goods and people, that the Forces and Bodies
of Security have required his contribution of images for the investigation of
criminal acts, that Madrid stands as the area with the highest rate of criminal acts
crimes that affect customers and employees and that for technical reasons, it is not
possible to redirect the capture angle of the installed cameras.

SIXTH: On 09/03/2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to open
a period of practice of evidence, considering reproduced, for evidentiary purposes
the claim filed by the claimant, the data obtained and generated by the
Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection and the allegations presented by the
reclaimed.

SEVENTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the
process.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding and of the

documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

PROVEN FACTS

9/19

FIRST: Existence of a video surveillance system installed in a
gambling establishment located at STREET *** ADDRESS.1, made up of 16 chambers,
4 of them oriented towards the outside (3 located on the facades and 1 on the arcade of the
entry access) as reflected in the content of the writing and the photographs
that accompany the response made by the respondent to the prior transfer of the
claim filed. It is credited, through the frames extracted from the monitor
system viewing and provided by the claimant, who, through the
mentioned 4 outward-facing cameras, the entire width of the
sidewalk (albeit narrow), as well as vehicles parked on 2 of them.

SECOND: The person in charge of the video surveillance system is PLAY ORENES S.L.

THIRD: The respondent has proceeded to withdraw 3 of the 4 cameras oriented
towards the outside (specifically the 3 installed on the facades), as
accredits in the photographs that accompany the brief, of allegations to the agreement of
start, presented on June 11, 2020.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Spanish Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter
RGPD and in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

In this case, it is appropriate to examine the claim presented by the
City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1 on October 16, 2019 in which the
installation of a video surveillance system in a PLAY ORENES establishment
SL located on STREET ***ADDRESS.1 of the town that «that due to its
positioning and features seem to be encompassing an important part of the
public highway, beyond the strict access that due to the surveillance of the facade of the
real estate could be considered adequate'.

Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD provides that personal data will be
“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed (“data minimization”).”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/19

This infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD:

"Infringements of the following provisions shall be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22; […].”

For the purposes of the limitation period of the infraction, it is considered very
serious and prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which
establishes that:

"According to the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/19

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant has arranged a system of
badly oriented video surveillance in relation to 4 cameras facing the outside. Of
the aforementioned cameras, 3 of them (those placed on the facades) have been removed,
as stated in the Third Proven Fact; subsisting presumably located in
the arcade of access to the premises, a camera that captures images not only of the entrance to the
establishment and a minimum of adjacent sidewalk, but also reaches in its
approach to vehicles parked in front of said entrance.

Regarding the allegations presented, it is appropriate to carry out the following

considerations:

As regards the application for annulment of the procedure

motivated by an alleged violation of the defendant's right to defense
Considering that the claim has not been transferred, it is necessary to point out, in
First, that the transfer of the claim contained in article 65.4 of the
LOPDGDD is configured as an optional procedure in the opinion of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection in an attempt to inform the
responsible or in charge that said body has been sent some
facts that could imply the violation of the protection regulations of
data, and all with the aim that on the part of said person in charge or
person in charge can provide information or justification that allows adopting
a reasoned decision about the admission or not to process the claim or
complaint and the subsequent ex officio opening of an investigation file
or a sanctioning procedure.

In this procedure, the core is to provide the person in charge or in charge of the
opportunity to defend oneself with respect to the facts contained in the claim
and this is what has been fulfilled in the present case with the brief sent on
on 11/21/2019, where PLAY ORENES S.L. that "This Agency
has learned of the existence of video surveillance cameras
located on STREET ***ADDRESS.1, which could be in breach of the
data protection regulations [...] For this reason you are requested that, in the
Within one month from receipt of this letter, prove that the installation
of the cameras is in accordance with the data protection regulations giving
response, at least, to the following points […]”. That is, although it has not been
transferred the claim in its entirety as such, if it has been requested
information based on the facts that are related to the regulations
duly identified data protection. In this case, therefore, not
defenselessness has occurred, since the defendant has been aware
of the situation presumably likely to violate the regulations of
data protection that the claimant has informed the AEPD.

The doctrine that the Constitutional Court has been maintaining in relation to
defenselessness is that in order for it to be invoked it is necessary to
It deals with a material defenselessness that implies that it has caused damage
real and effective. (among others, SSTC 90/1988, 43/1989, STC, 105/1995, 118/1997,
91/2004).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/19

In addition, it is necessary to point out that in this case what is requested is a
response to the AEPD and not that the person in charge or person in charge responds to whoever
has filed the claim or complaint.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/19

Regarding the possibility, protected by article 22 of the

LOPDGDD that, in order to guarantee the safety of people and
goods, which empowers the collection of public roads to the extent that it is
It is essential to point out that, in fact, this possibility is collected for,
in accordance with section 1 of the aforementioned article «individuals or legal entities,
public or private”.

Now, what is decisive at this point, for a
conjunction with the principle of data minimization stated in the article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, is that it must be “to the extent that it is
essential", which means that, if for security reasons it were
necessary to capture public roads —faculty that is generally attributed
to the Security Forces and Bodies in accordance with the provisions of the
Organic Law 4/1997 which regulates the use of video cameras by
Security Forces and Bodies in public places and their regulations on
development—because it is the space adjacent to the property (access area or
perimeter) this must be reduced to a minimum; in the case of a sidewalk you can
capture a portion of it in the part adjacent to that access or perimeter,
but it will not be provided to capture the entire width of it or
reach parked cars so that pedestrians and motorists
who park their vehicles are not excessively affected by their right to
the protection of the physical image.

The possibility of expanding the collection of public roads established by the
article 22.2, refers to strategic goods or entities (must understand
these to those defined as such in the National Catalog of Infrastructures
Strategic) or to transport infrastructures, a category in which
find a business dedicated to the game. Therefore, not belonging to the
business of the claimed to the category of strategic asset or entity or
transport infrastructure, must respect the criterion of minimum uptake of
the public road, and this regardless of the area where the business is located
(this aspect that has resulted from a free and voluntary decision of the
company), since an unequal application of the mentioned criterion would entail
an unequal consideration (and therefore a possible discrimination) in the
rights of people transiting through a certain area with respect to
those of others.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, the respondent is empowered to dispose
of a video surveillance system oriented towards the outside (and even located
abroad) whose purpose is to guarantee the safety of the property, employees and
customers, but bearing in mind that, in the event of needing to capture
public road, this collection must be limited to the essential minimum that
It is located adjacent to the access and perimeter.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/19

As regards the allegation related to the

disproportionality of the proposed financial sanction, it is necessary to bring
collation of what is included in the agreement to initiate this procedure. In this
initial agreement has not been collected at any time the aggravating circumstance of
recidivism, but the concurrent circumstances considered for purposes
to modulate the proposed sanction are: as aggravating circumstances, intentionality or
negligence in the infringement (article 83.2.b) RGPD) and the lack of measures
taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to mitigate the damages and
damages suffered by the interested parties (article 83.2.c); as mitigating factors,
collaboration with this Agency within this procedure, having
answered to the transfer of the claim (article 83.2.f) RGPD), non-existence
that of linking the activity of the offender with the performance of treatments
of personal data (article 76.2.b) LOPDGDD), non-existence of benefits
obtained as a result of committing the offense (article 76.2.c)
LOPDGDD) and have the figure of the data protection delegate not yet
belonging to the set of entities required to have the aforementioned figure
(article 76.2.g) LOPGDD).

As for the aggravating circumstances mentioned, the motivation rests, as
points out in the initial agreement, in a prior existence of the record-complaint
raised by the Civil Guard of ***LOCALIDAD.2 and that was presented before
the AEPD on February 11, 2019 due to the existence of a system of
video surveillance in the premises located at C/ ***DIRIMIENTO.1 (the same system as the
which is the subject of this sanctioning procedure) that would violate the
provided in the data protection regulations. On the 26th of the same month
sent the respondent a communication informing him of that
extreme, where to consult the requirements in this regard and that, if they do not adopt
the necessary measures, you could be incurring in an offense classified
in the data protection regulations that could initiate actions
investigators and sanctions. To this communication the respondent answered, the
March 26, 2019, that the system met the requirements.

Well, of the facts that have motivated the present procedure
sanctioning party, it is evidenced that the defendant did not implement any
measure in this regard that would have allowed him to verify and, therefore, correct,
the excessive recording of the public thoroughfare that is included in the Proven Fact
First.

Likewise, the mention of the 16 non-sanctioning files opened to the
claimed serves to influence the idea of lack of diligence of the claimed in the
failure to review a video surveillance system installation policy
which has been warned on those occasions by the AEPD about its possible
lack of adaptation to data protection regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/19

Based on the foregoing, and taking into account that according to the latest accounts
presented (fiscal year 2018) shows that the company had an amount
net turnover of XXX €. and had an average number of
permanent employees of 317.28 and non-permanent employees of 174.58 —which excludes it
of the definition of SME in accordance with Regulation (EU) No. 651/2014 of
the Commission, of June 17, 2014, it was considered proportionate to propose a
penalty of 20,000 euros.

Now, taking into account that the respondent has proceeded to withdraw 3 of the
4 cameras (those located on the facades) that excessively captured public roads,
it is considered that the concurrent circumstance of article 83.2.c) must make
from aggravating to mitigating, since measures have been adopted for that
tending to avoid harm to those affected who would see their right to
the protection of personal data when they are captured by the system of
video surveillance.

IV

In accordance with the provisions of the RGPD in its art. 83.2, when deciding to impose
an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case shall be taken into account
aggravating and mitigating factors that are listed in the aforementioned article, as well as
any other that may be applicable to the circumstances of the case.

Consequently, the following have been taken into account as aggravating factors:



The intentionality or negligence in the infringement (article 83.2.b) RGPD),

On the other hand, the following have been taken into consideration, as mitigating factors:

The adoption of measures taken by the person in charge or in charge of the

treatment to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties
(article 83.2.c) GDPR)

Collaboration with this Agency within this procedure


having answered the transfer of the claim (article 83.2.f) RGPD)

Non-existence of link between the offender's activity and the


personal data processing (article 76.2.b) LOPDGDD)

Non-existence of benefits obtained as a result of the


commission of the infraction (article 76.2.c) LOPDGDD)

Have the figure of the data protection delegate not yet

belonging to the set of entities required to have the aforementioned figure
(article 76.2.g) LOPGDD).

Based on the foregoing, it is appropriate to propose graduating the sanction to be imposed on the

claimed and set it at the amount of FIVE THOUSAND EUROS (€5,000).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/19

If the infraction is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose the person in charge the
adoption of appropriate measures to adjust its actions to the aforementioned regulations
in this act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD,
according to which each control authority may "order the person in charge or in charge
of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the

responsible so that within the period determined:

Prove that you proceeded to remove the camera located in the

Entrance arcade (private space of the establishment but outside the premises)
from its current location, or to its reorientation by reducing
the capture angle.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

 

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
sanction PLAY ORENES, S.L., with NIF B73002099, for an infraction of Article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of FIVE THOUSAND
EUROS (€5,000).

That, under the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, you will be
ORDER the respondent that, within ONE MONTH from the date on which the
resolution in which you so agree is notified, proceed to the withdrawal of the camera
located in the entrance arcade of its current location, or to the reorientation
of it by reducing the capture angle.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
You are informed that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at FOUR THOUSAND EUROS (€4,000) and its
payment will imply the termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/19

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount
specified above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited,
You must make it effective by depositing it in the restricted account number ES00 0000
0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and
the cause, by voluntary payment, of reduction of the amount of the sanction. Likewise,
You must send proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection for
proceed to close the file.

By virtue thereof, the foregoing is notified, and the
procedure so that within a period of TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider
in his defense and present the documents and information that he considers pertinent,
in accordance with article 89.2 of the LPACAP).

BBB
HEAD OF AREA
PROCEDURE INSTRUCTOR

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/19

ANNEX: File Index PS_00003_2020

1. Claim of C.C.C.
2. Transfer claim to PLAY ORENES, S.L.
3. Response to the request of D.D.D.
4. Admission for processing to C.C.C.
5. E/02186/2019
6. Check background information
7. Diligence

A. opening to PLAY ORENES, S.L.

8. Allegations of PLAY ORENES SL
9. Notice p. tests to PLAY ORENES, S.L.

  >>

 : On October 16, 2020, PLAY ORENES, S.L. has proceeded to
SECOND
 
payment of the sanction in the amount of 4,000 euros making use of the planned reduction
in the motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/19

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the
appropriate sanction.
2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been
justified the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment for the alleged
responsible, at any time prior to the resolution, will imply the
termination of the procedure, except in relation to the restoration of the situation
altered or to the determination of compensation for damages
caused by the commission of the offence.
3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being
cumulative with each other. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in
notification of initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.
The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00003/2020, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to PLAY ORENES, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

968-150719

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

