THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

June 13, 2018

 

 

  Challenges of the General Data Protection Regulation mastered with flying colours

 

The European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been in place since 2016.

Nevertheless, the DS-GVO has many un-

faced seemingly insurmountable hurdles. The Rolls Royce

The Power Systems division dealt with the topic at an early stage and

in cooperation with the state representative for data protection and information

Freedom of Information (LfDI), Dr. Stefan Brink, made a project task out of it.

 

Rolls-Royce Power Systems is a specialist in large engines, propulsion systems and

decentralized energy systems from the MTU and MTU Onsite Energy brands. The sub

headquartered in Friedrichshafen employs over 10,000 people worldwide

and is a division of the British technology group Rolls-Royce plc.

 

“The careful handling of personal data has been one of our principles for a long time

high priority and is therefore already integrated into a management system

grated" says Marcus A. Wassenberg, Member of the Board of Rolls-Royce Power Sys-

team. "The new General Data Protection Regulation has prompted us to

and to align and clearly structure the processes with them. A revised

The current global guideline regulates handling and responsibilities. About 10,000 employees

ter in 24 countries around the world have been specially trained – including top

Management. "Our data protection management system is designed to

Keep an eye on the DGSVO and consider the protection of personal data

Data as a constant task. This is a natural part of our Compli-

ance rules,” says Wassenberg.

 

 "The structured approach to both project implementation and the ongoing

ongoing operation, this project as a reference project for the LfDI was exciting

Königstrasse 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

- 2 -

does,” said the state representative. The example of Rolls Royce is good evidence that

that the increased requirements of data protection have been convincingly mastered

could become. "A good foundation has now been laid, now it is important to

to ensure data protection in the minds of employees (also and above all abroad)

to carry out core and corresponding training courses and awareness-raising

to provide specific assistance for everyday work," says Brink.

 

A future collaboration between Rolls-Royce Power Systems and the

LfDI is aimed at.

 

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

 
 

