1/10

 File No.: PS/00345/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 03/03/2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the part
claimant), through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereinafter, the claimed party), for not complying with the Privacy Policy of the page
web https://www.jobitur.com with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the
European Parliament and of the Council, April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to data protection treatment and the free
circulation of these data (hereinafter, RGPD).

The claim indicates the following, in relation to the data protection regulations
data:

“The aforementioned website, www.jobitur.com, does not comply with what is established under the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights, which they have openly breached by not reporting that the
data obtained go to generate a database in your possession, at the time of
record, in which nothing is indicated (attached photo) nor does it mention the objective of the
itself, nor of course do they mention how to exercise the fundamental rights of
deletion, rectification and cancellation of the data, as there is no address or
physical or electronic to go to for it. In repeated communications to the only
contact email that appears on the web about it, they never answer.

In its "privacy policy" section of the web, an identification does not appear
of the company, which violates compliance with the law, neither CIF, nor personality
of the same, nor address, nor mention of the rights of cancellation, deletion
and rectification of the data obtained when no site to go to appears.

Attach the following documentation:

- A copy of the email sent by the claimant to the email listed
on the website www.jobitur.com, exercising the right to cancel your data
personal. It indicates the following:

“I hereby request that you cancel each and every one of my data that you hold in
their proxy in an electronic file of their database and refrain from
share my data with third parties of any kind, and on the other hand, cancel my
account on its website, in compliance with Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
digital, which they have openly breached by not reporting that the data
obtained go on to generate a database in their possession, not to mention the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

objective of the same, nor of course mention how to exercise the rights
fundamentals of deletion, rectification and cancellation of data”.

- A copy of sections 1, 2 and 5 of the Privacy Policy that appears in the

mentioned website. They indicate the following:

"1. Ownership. JOBITUR.COM is the entity that owns the website and the file to which
Your Personal Data is incorporated, as well as the person responsible for the
treatment of them.

2. Collection and treatment.
2.1. Personal Data JOBITUR.COM will collect the Data of
Personal Character of the Users, through online forms, via
Internet. The Personal Data collected, depending on each case
They will be, among others, name and surnames, address, telephone number, email
email, shipping address. The Users expressly and unequivocally
give their consent for the Personal Data to be
incorporated into the Personal Data file with the number 206075028,
registered with the data protection agency.
2.2. Purpose. The purpose of the collection and automated treatment of the
Personal Data will be
2.2.1. Facilitate management and communication with our customers.
2.2.2. Make proposals to new contacts.
2.2.3. Sending communications and advertising related to services and products
from JOBTUR.COM.

5. Rights of access, rectification, cancellation and opposition. Those
individuals who have provided their data to JOBITUR.COM, may
address it, as responsible for the Personal Data File,
in order to be able to exercise their rights of access, cancellation, rectification
and opposition regarding the data included in the Data File of
Personal character.
Given the very personal nature of these rights, it will be necessary for the
affected prove their identity to JOBITUR.COM. JOBITUR.COM is
reserves the right to adopt the measures that are pertinent with the object
to verify your identity.
The rights of access, rectification, cancellation and opposition may
be exercised in accordance with the provisions of current legislation. The user
must send a communication in writing, addressed to the Department of
JOBITUR.COM Customer Service.
Once the request is received, JOBITUR,COM will proceed to notify you of your
decision within the terms established in the applicable legislation in each
moment.

- A copy of the registration form on the website www.jobitur.com that includes
as personal data the name and surnames, the telephone and the address of
email. In addition, it has two boxes, "Employer" and "Candidate",
that the user must mark according to his profile.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

SECOND: In view of the reported facts, on 04/12/2021 the Subdirectorate
General of Data Inspection accessed the DomainBigData registry in which
indicates that the claimed party appears as the registrant of the domain jobitur.com in the registry
of Whois. In this sense, it is verified that the claimed party also has registered
its name is the domain magazineoftravel.es, as stated in the Whois registry of
Red.es.

Likewise, on 04/13/2021, by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection
access to the information available on the claimed in “Axesor”. on said website
There is evidence of the participation of the respondent in three companies in which she has the
100% participation and, consequently, other information about them.

Lastly, on 04/20/2021 this Subdirectorate accesses the website
https://www.jobitur.com. Regarding the collection of personal data, check
that, apart from having the registration form mentioned in the section on
“Facts”, first point, also has a contact form. In this are collected
as mandatory data the name and email, being conditioned its sending to the
acceptance of the Privacy Policy. Also, it allows users to send their
curriculum, having to fill in another form that collects as
the name, email, telephone, province, professional title and location are mandatory; but
not the data regarding salary, photo, skills, URL, education and experience.

Regarding the Privacy Policy of the jobitur.com website, it is verified that
continues to be the same one that appears in one of the documents provided by the
claimant and indicated in the “Facts” section, first point, of this agreement.
However, it should be noted that the sections not mentioned in the documentation
attached to the claim are "Use of Cookies and remarketing", "Links" and
“Change of Regulations”.

Prior to admitting the claim for processing, this Agency gave
transfer to the one claimed on 04/21/2021, in accordance with article 65.4 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD). For purposes of power
practice the notification, information was requested from the Tax Agency on the
tax domicile of the claimed party, resulting in “Returned to origin due to surplus (not
picked up at the office), as stated in the Post Office notice of 05/12/2021.

THIRD: On 06/29/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
Data agreed to admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing.

FOURTH: On 10/08/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: An attempt was made to notify the opening agreement of this
sanctioning procedure by postal mail, which resulted in “Returned to origin by
Unknown”, according to the notice issued by the Post Office. In this way, the notification
occurred through an announcement published in the Official State Gazette on the day
05/11/2021 and a hearing period of TEN WORKING DAYS is granted so that
formulate allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate, in accordance with

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

with the provisions of articles 73 and 76 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP).

SIXTH: After the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the agreement
of the beginning of the procedure, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding-
establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, when it contains a precise statement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal.

In the present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the party complained against has made no objections to the agreement to initiate the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

SEVENTH: The agreement to open the procedure agreed in the fourth point of the
operative part “INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for the purposes of evidence, the
claims submitted by claimants and the information and documentation
obtained by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection in the phase of
information prior to the agreement for admission to processing of the claim”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: A claim is filed for non-compliance with the regulations of
protection of personal data on the website https://www.jobitur.com. The agency
Spanish Data Protection has verified that its Privacy Policy is not
conforms to the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD. Well, it does not cover all
issues listed in the aforementioned precept.

SECOND: The Spanish Data Protection Agency has notified the respondent
the agreement to open this sanctioning procedure, but has not
presented allegations or evidence that contradicts the facts denounced.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

1) “personal data”: all information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the interested party”); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with the above definitions, data collection
through forms included in a web page constitutes a
data processing, with respect to which the data controller must give
compliance with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, indicates that:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

3. When the data controller plans further data processing
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.

b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

a) (…)

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;

c) (...)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

(…)

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case".

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD establishes that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

In turn, article 72.1 h) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

v

In this case, the respondent has not presented arguments or evidence that
contradict the facts denounced in the term for it.

This Agency has verified that the conduct of the respondent is not in accordance with the
data protection regulations, since its website www.jobitur.com does not contain
all the information required in article 13 of the RGPD, indicated in the foundation of
right III.

Thus, the exposed facts constitute, on the part of the claimed, a
infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

SAW

In accordance with article 58.2 b), for the commission of this infraction, it is appropriate
address a warning when collecting personal data from users to
through forms and consider that the administrative fine that could fall with
in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5 b) of the RGPD would constitute a burden
disproportionate to the one claimed, since there is no record of the commission of any
previous breach of data protection.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, in the
resolution is required to the claimed, as responsible for the treatment, the
adequacy of the information offered to users whose personal data is
collect from them the requirements contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD, as well as
such as the provision of means of proof accrediting compliance with the
required

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: REQUIRE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, under the provisions of the
article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten business days from this act
of notification accredits before this body the adoption of measures to facilitate
information to the people whose personal data it collects, in accordance with the provisions of the
GDPR article 13

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

