

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities of the General Financial Directorate - processing of personal data by the financial administration in connection with electronic records of sales



On the basis of the Office's control plan, the Office carried out an inspection of the processing of personal data by the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic, focusing on the processing of personal data pursuant to Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on the registration of sales. As part of the inspection, an initiative whose content was related to the subject of the inspection was also examined.

Jurisdiction according to Act No. 112/2016 Coll. in the area of electronic records of sales, it is carried out by the bodies of the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic, specifically by the General Financial Directorate. The Office checked compliance with the obligations arising from ยง 5 paragraph 1 letter b) (determination of the means and purpose of processing), d) (collection to the appropriate and necessary extent), e) (retention for the necessary period), ยง 5 paragraph 2 (legal title for processing), ยง 6 (contract for processing) and ยง 13 (security of personal data) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The automated tax information system that processes the data is an information system of critical information infrastructure within the meaning of Act No. 181/2014 Coll., on cyber security and on the amendment of related laws (Cyber Security Act). The system security standards are therefore set by legal regulations. The Authority checked their compliance.

The implementation of the commercial product reCAPTCHA into the automated tax information system was removed during the inspection. The inspected person provided this functionality with his own solution.

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The inspection was conducted by Inspector Mgr. Daniel Rowan.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > General Financial Directorate - processing of personal data by the financial administration in connection with electronic sales recordsView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



