• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To:  Repair Plans  UK  Limited 

Of: 

3rd  Floor,  Queensberry  House,  106 Queens  Road,  Brighton 

England  BN 1 3XF 

1. 

The  Information  Commissioner  ("the  Commissioner")  has  decided  to 

issue  Repair  Plans  UK  Limited  ("RPUK")  with  a  monetary penalty  under 

section  SSA  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998  ("DPA").  The  penalty  is  in 

relation  to  a  serious  contravention  of regulation  21  of the  Privacy  and 

Electronic  Communications  (EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003  ("PECR"). 

2. 

This  notice explains the Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

RPUK,  whose  registered  office 

is  given  above  (Companies  House 

Registration  Number:  12925962) is the organisation stated in this notice 

to have  used  a public electronic communications service for the purpose 

of making  unsolicited  calls for the purposes of direct marketing  contrary 

to regulation  21  of PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  21  applies  to  the  making  of  unsolicited  calls  for  direct 

marketing  purposes.  It  means  that  if a  company  wants  to  make  calls 

1 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

promoting  a  product  or  service  to  an  individual  who  has  a  telephone 

number which  is  registered  with  the  Telephone  Preference  Service  Ltd 

("TPS"),  then  that individual  must have  notified  the  company that they 

do  not object to receiving  such  calls from  it. 

5. 

Regulation  21  paragraph  (1)  of PECR  provides that: 

"(1)  A  person  shall  neither  use,  nor  instigate  the  use  of,  a  public 

electronic communications service for the purposes of making unsolicited 

calls for direct marketing purposes  where-

(a) 

the called line is that of a subscriber who  has previously notified 

the caller that such  calls should not for the  time being be made 

on  that line;  or 

(b) 

the number allocated to a subscriber in  respect of the called line 

is  one listed in  the register kept under regulation 26." 

6. 

Regulation  21  paragraphs (2),  (3),  (4)  and  (5)  provide that: 

"(2)  A  subscriber shall  not permit his  line  to  be  used  in  contravention 

of paragraph (1). 

(3)  A  person  shall  not be  held  to  have  contravened paragraph  (1)(b) 

where  the number allocated to  the called line has been  listed on  the 

register  for  less  than  28  days  preceding  that  on  which  the  call  is 

made. 

( 4)  Where  a  subscriber who  has caused a  number allocated to  a  line  of 

his  to  be  listed in  the  register kept under regulation  26 has  notified 

a caller that he does not, for the time being, object to such calls being 

2 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

made  on  that  line  by  that  caller,  such  calls  may  be  made  by  that 

caller on that line,  notwithstanding that the number allocated to that 

line is  listed in  the said register. 

(5)  Where  a  subscriber  has  given  a  caller  notification  pursuant  to 

paragraph ( 4)  in  relation  to a  line of his-

(a)  the subscriber shall be free to withdraw that notification at any 

time,  and 

(b)  where such notification is  withdrawn,  the caller shall not make 

such calls on  that line." 

7. 

Under regulation  26  of PECR,  the  Commissioner is  required  to  maintain 

a  register  of numbers  allocated  to  subscribers  who  have  notified  them 

that they do  not wish,  for the time  being, to receive  unsolicited  calls for 

direct  marketing  purposes  on  those  lines.  The  Telephone  Preference 

Service  Limited  ("TPS")  is  a limited company which  operates the register 

on  the  Commissioner's  behalf.  Businesses  who  wish  to  carry  out  direct 

marketing  by telephone  can  subscribe  to  the  TPS  for a  fee  and  receive 

from  them  monthly a  list of numbers on  that register. 

8. 

Section  122(5)  of  the  DPA18  defines  direct  marketing  as  "the 

communication 

(by  whatever  means)  of  advertising  material  or 

marketing  material  which  is  directed  to  particular  individuals".  This 

definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) PECR 

&  Schedule  19  paragraphs 430  &  432(6)  DPA18). 

9. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as  "a  living  individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals". 

3 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

10.  A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic communications 

services for the supply of such services". 

11.  Section  SSA  of the DPA  (as applied to PECR cases by Schedule 1 to PECR, 

as  variously amended)  states: 

"(1)  The  Commissioner may serve a  person  with  a  monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is  satisfied that -

(a)  there has been a  serious contravention  of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) 

Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This  subsection applies if the contravention  was  deliberate. 

(3)  This  subsection applies if the person  -

(a) 

knew  or ought to  have  known  that there  was  a  risk  that 

the contravention  would occur,  but 

(b) 

failed 

to 

take 

reasonable  steps 

to  prevent 

the 

contravention. 

12.  The  Commissioner has  issued  statutory guidance  under section  SSC  (1) 

of  the  DPA  about  the  issuing  of  monetary  penalties  that  has  been 

published  on 

the 

ICO's  website.  The  Data  Protection 

(Monetary 

Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty  and  Notices)  Regulations  2010  prescribe 

that the  amount of any  penalty determined  by the  Commissioner must 

not exceed  fS00,000. 

4 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

13.  PECR  were  enacted  to  protect  the  individual's  fundamental  right  to 

privacy 

in 

the  electronic  communications  sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently  amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner  will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' overall 

aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy rights. 

14.  The  provisions  of  the  DPA  remain  in  force  for  the  purposes  of  PECR 

notwithstanding  the  introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20  to the  DPA18. 

Background to the case 

15.  On  08  March  2021,  the  Commissioner  received  information  from  West 

Sussex  Trading  Standards  ("WSTS")  relating  to  an  older  individual 

("Complainant l") who had reportedly been targeted over several weeks 

by various telesales companies to purchase "unnecessary & unrequested 

services".  Complainant  1  had  received  these  unsolicited  calls  despite 

being  listed  on  the  TPS  register  since  August  1999.  The  complaint  to 

WSTS  was  made  by Complainant  l's son-in-law.  One  of the  companies 

identified  by the report was  RPUK. 

16.  On  1 June 2021, an  initial letter addressing the Commissioner's concerns 

regarding  RPUK's  compliance with  Regulation  21  of PECR was sent to the 

organisation.  The  letter  requested  such  information  as  details  of  the 

source  for the  data  used  by  RPUK,  any  Due  Diligence  checks  it carries 

out on  such  data, full  details of the Calling  Line  Identifiers ("Clls") used 

by RPUK,  together with details of the number of calls made by RPUK  over 

a  prescribed  period.  It also  required  for  RPUK  to  provide  evidence  that 

Complainant  1  in  particular  had  not  objected  (i.e.  had  consented)  to 

receiving  unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  from  RPUK. 

5 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

17.  The  sole  Company  Director,  having  received  a  copy  of this  initial  letter 

by email, responded to say: "I have looked through our records and have 

no  luck  finding  anyone  under  the  name  of [Complainant  1],  can  you 

please find more information as to  when  this alleged call was  made and 

we  can try look into it further". This was followed  by a further email from 

the  Company  Director on  14  June  2021  stating:  "As  a  company  we  do 

not store  all records  of leads  that have  been  dialled but we  do  buy our 

data  from 

for TPS." 

and other providers,  which  has all be  checked 

18.  On  15 June  2021, the Commissioner emailed the Company Director and 

included  a  screenshot  to  show  that  a  withdrawal  had  been  made  from 

Complainant  l's  bank  account  on  22  January  2021  in  the  sum  of 

£180.00, by "REPAIR PLANS  UK CD  1415". The Commissioner also asked 

for a comprehensive  response to his  initial  letter of 1 June  2021. 

19.  On  25 June 2021,  RPUK  provided a response to the initial letter, with the 

following  notable comments: 

a.  RPUK  "have  no  record  of [Complainant  A]  as  someone  that 

[they] have contacted". 

b.  RPUK  "purchase all of [its] data  directly from  data  companies, 

who  state  all  their  records  are  searched  to  make  sure  the 

person [they] call does not use  the  TPS  service". 

c.  RPUK  does  not source  any data from  customers directly. 

d.  RPUK  could  not confirm  accurate call  volumes as  it "do[es] not 

store data that has been used,  as once it has been called [they] 

remove  it  as  there  is  no  obligation  or  need  to  store  the 

information" 

6 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

20. 

In  addition  to  the  above,  RPUK  provided  details  of  two  Clls  used  for 

outbound  calls,  and  customer service  enquiries respectively 1 . 

21.  RPUK  also  provided  a  copy  of a  call  script used  for "all  outbound  calls", 

which  stated to subscribers that the call  was:  " ...  a courtesy call today to 

get a new plan in place on  your washing machine, just to make sure it's 

fully covered for at least the  next year [. .. ]  we  offer unlimited call outs, 

parts,  repairs and labour costs and if the machine does break down and 

cannot  be  fixed  we'll  deliver  you  a  brand  new  one  [. .. ]  it's  a  one  off 

payment of £99 [. .. ]". 

22.  On  7  July  2021,  the  Commissioner  requested  further  information  from 

RPUK,  specifically:  its  banking  details  used  for  business  purposes,  and 

full  details  of  the  companies  which  RPUK  would  purchase  data  from, 

together with  any purchase orders/contracts, and  documentation of Due 

Diligence. 

23.  On  15 July 2021  RPUK  provided copies of three purchase orders for data 

purchased  by  it between  19  January  2021  and  16  February  2021  from 

its  sole  third-party  data  provider:  My 

trading  as  -

24.  All  three purchase orders contained 'criteria', specifying that the required 

data  was  for  individuals  who  were  homeowners  aged  60+.  Two  of the 

three purchase orders contained text stating 'TPS  Screened  Live Number 

Checked',  and 'Landline Only'. 

1 It was later ascertained that the CLI provided at this time for RPUK's outbound calls was incorrect, and in fact had 
not been allocated to a user.  This was clarified by RPUK on 15  July 2021  who confirmed the correct CLI for 
outgoing calls was 01273 054738 (See Paragraph 26 of this Notice). 

7 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

25.  Despite  the  Commissioner's  request,  RPUK  did  not  provide  information 

regarding  the banking  details used  by it for business  purposes. 

26. 

In  separate  correspondence,  RPUK  also  confirmed  that the  information 

it had  provided  on  7 July 2021  with  respect to its CLI  used  for outbound 

calls  was  erroneous,  and  that  the  CLI  used  for  such  calls  was  in  fact 

01273  054738.  The  Commissioner  subsequently  discovered  however 

that 01273  054738  was  only  allocated  to  RPUK  by the  Communications 

Service  Provider on  14 July 2021  - i.e.  one day before  RPUK  notified the 

Commissioner of its use.  The  CLI  used  for outgoing  calls  prior to  14 July 

2021  was  not disclosed  by RPUK. 

27.  On  7 September 2021, the Commissioner sent a Third-Party Information 

Notice 

to 

(" 

"), 

the  Communications  Service 

Provider  which  had  allocated  01273  054738  to  RPUK  on  14 July  2021. 

The  Commissioner asked  for details of any other Clls allocated to  RPUK 

between  1  October  2020  and  7  September  2021,  together  with 

information  regarding  the  Call  Dialler  Records  ("CDRs")  for  outbound 

calls from  those  Clls. 

28. 

In its response, 

provided  details of four Clls which  had  been 

allocated  to  RPUK,  and  their respective  allocation  start-dates: 

•  01273714093  - allocated  to  RPUK  since  18 January 2021; 

•  01273101803  - allocated  to  RPUK  since  16 March  2021; 

•  01273054252 - allocated  to  RPUK  since  9 April  2021; 

•  01273054738 - allocated  to  RPUK  since  14 July 2021. 

29.  The  CDRs  disclosed  by 

revealed  that there  had  been  78,160 

outbound calls  made from these four Clls between  18 January 2021 and 

7  September  2021.  Of  those  78,160,  39,313  calls  connected  with  a 

8 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

subscriber.  Of those 39,313 calls,  21,347 connected to a subscriber who 

had  been  registered  with  the TPS  for not less  than  28  days  at the time 

they received  the call. 

30.  During  the  investigation,  the  Commissioner notes  that  RPUK  has  failed 

to provide any details related  to any aspect of data  management by the 

company.  It  has  also  failed  to  provide  any  details  related  to  their 

marketing  processes  including  details  on  TPS  screening  and  compliance 

with  PECR  Regulations. 

31. 

It is  noted that, between the dates of 18 January 2021 and  7 September 

2021,  there  was  a  single  complaint  made  to  the  TPS  about  calls  from 

RPUK  from  one  of the four allocated  Clls. This  complaint stated: 

"My  dad  hung  up  after  saying  he  was  not  interested  and  they 

phoned back 2  minutes later but denied they had already called." 

32.  There  was  also  a  complaint  made  directly to  the  Commissioner via  his 

on line  reporting tool  ("OLRT").  This complaint stated: 

"Male  requesting renewal of insurance for washing machine.  Don't 

have insurance." 

33.  A  significant  number of complaint  reports  are  also  noted  to  have  been 

logged  online  by individuals via  the site 'who-called.co.uk'. 

a.  For calls  from  01273  714093,  between  18 January 2021  and  7 

September 2021,  17 reports were  logged; 

b.  For  calls  from  01273101803,  between  16  March  2021  and  7 

September 2021,  11  reports were  logged; 

9 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

c.  For  calls  from  01273  054252,  between  9  April  2021  and  7 

September 2021,  1 report was  logged;  and, 

d.  For  calls  from  01273  054738,  between  14  July  2021  and  7 

September 2021,  3  reports were  logged. 

34.  Noting  that  RPUK  purchases  its  data  from 

with  RPUK 

suggesting that it relies on 

to screen  data against the TPS 

register,  the Commissioner has  considered 

website.  Its 

'Data  Supply  Terms  &  Conditions'  at  the  time  of  checking  state  at 

Paragraph  8. 5: 

"Whilst  the  Company  has  used  all  reasonable  endeavours  to 

ensure  the  accuracy of the  information  contained in  the  Data  the 

Client acknowledges that in the compilation and supply of the Data 

to the Client the Company often has to rely on information supplied 

by  a  third  party  and  that  such  information  may  have  been 

incorrectly  provided  and  that  by  the  very  nature  and  volume  of 

such  Data  accuracy  cannot  be  verified.  Therefore  the  Company 

does  not guarantee  or warrant that the  Data  is  without errors or 

omissions  and the  accuracy of the  Data  is  not a  condition  of the 

Licence  and  the  Client  will  not  be  entitled  to  refuse  to  pay  any 

amount due or part thereof by reason of errors or omissions in the 

Data supplied under the Licence". 

35. 

It  is  also  noted  that  RPUK  has  failed  to  provide  any  evidence  of  a 

contractual  arrangement with 

to conduct TPS  screening. 

36.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the 21,347 calls were all  made for the 

purposes of direct marketing  as  defined  by section  122(5) DPA18. 

10 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

37.  The  Commissioner  has  made  the  above 

findings  of  fact  on 

the 

balance  of probabilities. 

38.  The  Commissioner  has  considered  whether  those  facts  constitute  a 

contravention  of regulation  21  of PECR  by  RPUK  and,  if so,  whether the 

conditions of section  SSA  DPA  are  satisfied. 

The contravention 

39.  The  Commissioner finds  that  RPUK  contravened  regulation  21  of PECR. 

40.  The  Commissioner finds that the  contravention  was  as  follows: 

41.  Between  18 January  2021  and  7  September 2021,  RPUK  used  a  public 

telecommunications  service 

for 

the  purposes  of  making  21,347 

unsolicited  calls  for direct marketing  purposes  to  subscribers  where  the 

number  allocated  to  the  subscriber  in  respect  of the  called  line  was  a 

number listed  on  the  register of numbers  kept  by  the  Commissioner in 

accordance  with  regulation  26,  contrary to regulation  2l(l)(b) of PECR. 

42.  The Commissioner is  also satisfied for the purposes of regulation  21  that 

these 21,347 unsolicited direct marketing calls were made to subscribers 

who  had  registered  with  the TPS  at least  28  days  prior to  receiving  the 

calls,  and who for the purposes of regulation  21( 4) had  not notified RPUK 

that they did  not object to receiving  such  calls. 

43.  For  such  notification  to  be  valid  under  regulation  21(4),  the  individual 

must  have  taken  a  clear  and  positive  action  to  override  their  TPS 

registration and  indicate their willingness to receive marketing calls from 

the company. The notification should reflect the individual's choice about 

11 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

whether  or  not  they  are  willing  to  receive  marketing  calls.  Therefore, 

where signing up to use a product or service is conditional upon receiving 

marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate how this constitutes 

a  clear and  positive  notification  of the  individual's willingness to  receive 

such  calls. 

44.  The  notification  must  clearly  indicate  the  individual's  willingness  to 

receive marketing calls specifically. Companies cannot rely on  individuals 

opting  in  to  marketing  communications  generally,  unless  it is  clear that 

this will  include telephone calls. 

45.  Further, the notification must demonstrate the individual's willingness to 

receive  marketing  calls  from  that company specifically.  Notifications will 

not be  valid  for the purposes of regulation  21( 4)  if individuals are  asked 

to  agree  to  receive  marketing  calls 

from  "similar  organisations", 

"partners", "selected third  parties" or other similar generic descriptions. 

46.  Rather than  providing  evidence  that the  subscribers  which  it called  had 

given valid  notification that they agreed to receive such  direct marketing 

calls  from  RPUK,  RPUK  has  instead  confirmed  in  the  course  of  the 

Commissioner's investigation that it destroys all  of the data that it relies 

on  to make the calls  immediately after the  calls  are  made.  As  such,  it is 

unable to provide any evidence  of such  notification. 

47.  The Commissioner's Direct Marketing Guidance is very clear that bought 

in  call  lists,  such  as those used  by RPUK,  should  be  screened  against the 

TPS.  RPUK  failed  to  adhere  to  this  guidance,  and  has  provided  no 

evidence  that  it  screened  its  data  against  the  TPS  register  prior  to 

making  its  unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls.  This  failure  led  to  a 

significant breach  of regulation  21  PECR. 

12 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

48.  The Commissioner has gone on  to consider whether the conditions under 

section  SSA  DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

49.  The  Commissioner 

is  satisfied 

that 

the  contravention 

identified 

above was serious. This is because there have been  multiple breaches of 

regulation  21  by RPUK  arising  from the organisation's activities between 

18  January  2021  and  7  September  2021,  and  this  led  to  21,347 

unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls  being  made  to  subscribers  who  were 

registered  with  the TPS  and  who  had  not  notified  RPUK  that they  were 

willing  to  receive  such  calls.  This  resulted  in  a  single  complaint  to  the 

TPS,  a  complaint  to  the  Commissioner  directly  via  his  OLRT,  and  a 

complaint to the  WSTS. 

50.  The  Commissioner  is  concerned  by  a  number  of  factors  which  arose 

during the investigation. In particular, RPUK's failure to provide any form 

of internal  policy or procedure regarding  PECR  and the DPA,  its apparent 

lack of any contractual  arrangements with  its third-party data  provider, 

the  lack  of  evidence  of  any  TPS  checks  being  conducted  by  RPUK  to 

ensure  the  protection  of individuals'  privacy  rights,  and  the  number of 

calls  made to TPS  registered  individuals.  It is  also concerning that RPUK 

appears to adopt a  policy  of deleting  any  data  once  it has  been  "used". 

The  Commissioner's  Direct  Marketing  Guidance  states  that,  in  terms  of 

being  able 

to  evidence  consent 

in  a  direct  marketing  context, 

"Organisations  should  [. .. ]  make  sure  that  they  keep  clear  records  of 

exactly  what  someone  has  consented  to.  In  particular,  they  should 

record  the  date  of  consent,  the  method  of  consent,  who  obtained 

consent,  and  exactly  what  information  was  provided  to  the  person 

consenting.  They should not rely on a  bought-in list unless  the seller or 

13 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

list  broker  can  provide  these  details.  Organisations  may  be  asked  to 

produce  their  records  as  evidence  to  demonstrate  compliance  in  the 

event of a  complaint".  It is  therefore  concerning  that,  despite this  clear 

guidance,  RPUK  simply deleted any, and  indeed all,  data which  would  be 

necessary  to  evidence  a  lawful  basis  to  engage  in  unsolicited  direct 

marketing.  The  Commissioner takes the  view that these  issues  all  point 

to  an 

ignorance  or  disregard  of  the  particular  regulations  and  the 

Regulator by RPUK. 

51.  The  Commissioner 

is 

therefore  satisfied 

that  condition 

(a) 

from 

section  SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

52.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether the  contravention  identified 

above  was  deliberate.  The  Commissioner  does  not  consider that  RPUK 

deliberately set out to contravene  PECR  in  this instance. 

53.  The  Commissioner  has  gone  on  to  consider  whether the  contravention 

identified  above  was  negligent.  This  consideration  comprises  two 

elements: 

54.  Firstly,  he  has  considered  whether  RPUK  knew  or  ought  reasonably  to 

have  known  that there  was  a  risk  that this  contravention  would  occur. 

He  is  satisfied that this condition  is  met. 

55.  The  Commissioner  has  published  detailed  guidance  for  companies 

carrying  out marketing  explaining  their legal  requirements  under PECR. 

This guidance explains the circumstances under which  organisations are 

able  to  carry  out marketing  over the  phone,  by text,  by  email,  by  post 

or by  fax.  Specifically,  it states  that live  calls  must not be  made to  any 

14 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

subscriber registered with the TPS,  unless the subscriber has specifically 

notified the  company that they do  not object to receiving  such  calls.  In 

case  organisations remain  unclear on  their obligations, the ICO operates 

a  telephone  helpline.  ICO  communications  about  previous  enforcement 

action  where  businesses  have  not  complied  with  PECR  are  also  readily 

available. 

56.  Despite  receiving  correspondence  on  1  June  2021  advising  that  the 

Commissioner  had  concerns  regarding  its  direct  marketing  practices, 

RPUK  continued  unabated to carry out its direct marketing campaign. 

57. 

It is  noted  that RPUK's  privacy policy appears to comprehensively cover 

some  data  protection  topics  including  regarding  the  collection,  storage, 

use,  security,  transfer,  and  deletion  of personal  data,  which  implies  at 

least an  awareness of the  DPA/PECR.  Given  this apparent knowledge  of 

its  legislative  duties,  it is  reasonable  to  expect the  company to  at least 

have  been  aware  that  there  was  a  risk  associated  with  conducting  an 

unsolicited  live  call  direct  marketing  campaign  using  personal  data 

obtained  from  third  parties. 

58. 

It is therefore reasonable to suppose that RPUK  should  have been  aware 

of its responsibilities in  this area. 

59.  Secondly,  the  Commissioner  has  gone  on  to  consider  whether  RPUK 

failed  to take  reasonable  steps  to  prevent the  contravention.  Again,  he 

is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

60.  The  Commissioner's  direct  marketing  guidance  makes  clear  that 

organisations  acquiring  marketing 

lists 

from  a 

third  party  must 

undertake  rigorous  checks  to  satisfy themselves that the  personal  data 

was obtained fairly and  lawfully, that their details would  be  passed  along 

15 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

for direct marketing to the specifically named organisation  in  the case  of 

live calls,  and that they have the necessary notifications for the purposes 

of regulation  21(4).  It is  not acceptable  to  rely  on  assurances  given  by 

third  party  suppliers  without  undertaking  proper  due  diligence.  As 

evidence of Due Diligence, RPUK had selected and provided three specific 

purchase  orders  between  it  and  its  third-party  data  provider.  Two  of 

these three purchase orders contained 'TPS  checking' within the required 

criteria;  no  explanation  has  been  given  for why the third  did  not.  In any 

event,  no formal  contract between  the  parties  has  been  provided  to the 

Commissioner  to  ascertain  whether  'TPS  checking'  was 

in 

fact  a 

requirement  expected  by  RPUK.  Furthermore,  despite  any  assurances 

which may have been provided, it is reasonable to expect an  organisation 

seeking  to  carry  out  unsolicited  live-call  direct  marketing  to  check  any 

data  against  the  TPS  register  itself,  and/or  to  retain  records  of  any 

consent/notification  provided  by the third-party data provider.  RPUK  did 

neither of these things.  Nor has it evidenced any relevant data protection 

policies or practices which  could  have demonstrated at least an  intention 

to  comply  with  the  law.  Furthermore,  it  is  noted  that  upon  being 

informed 

in  June  2021  by  the  Commissioner  that  it  was  under 

investigation  in  relation  to potential  regulation  21  contraventions,  RPUK 

continued to engage  in  the practice of unsolicited  direct marketing calls. 

It would  have  been  reasonable  for  RPUK  to  cease  its  direct  marketing 

activity at that time pending  the  Commissioner's  investigation. 

61.  Given  the  volume  of  calls  made  to  TPS-registered  numbers  and  the 

nature  of  the  complaints,  it  is  clear  that  RPUK  failed  to  take  those 

reasonable  steps. 

62.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (b)  from  section 

SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

16 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 

63.  Taking  into  account  the  volume  of  unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls 

made 

in  contravention  of 

the 

legislation, 

the  duration  of 

the 

contravention,  and  the  negligent  nature  of  the  contravention,  when 

examined  against  comparator cases  the  Commissioner has  determined 

that an  appropriate  starting  point for the  penalty in  this  case  should  be 

£40,000. 

64.  The  Commissioner  has  taken  into  account  the  following  aggravating 

features of this case: 

• 

In  addition  to  the  evidence  that  at  least  one  vulnerable  individual 

was  affected  and  had  money taken  as  a result of RPUK's  unsolicited 

direct  marketing  activity,  there  is  evidence  that  RPUL  were  widely 

targeting 

individuals  aged  60+,  whose 

telephone 

facility  was 

'landline only', so there was potential for more vulnerable individuals 

to be  affected. 

•  Engagement with  the  Commissioner proved  unsatisfactory,  limited, 

and  not  meaningful.  The  Commissioner  was  not  provided  with 

evidence of any relevant policies such  as  staff training.  RPUL  did  not 

screen  calls,  and  could  not evidence  that individuals  did  not object 

to their calls. 

•  RPUK  used  false  and  misleading  statements in  their telephone  calls, 

i.e.  that  its  calls  were  "courtesy  calls"  when  they  were  in  fact 

unsolicited direct marketing calls, and that its service involved a one 

off payment  of £99.00,  when  the  Commissioner  has  evidence  that 

at  least  one  individual  was  charged  £180.00.  The  Commissioner  is 

further concerned  with  how it was  possible for RPUL to maintain and 

17 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

provide  service  cover  when 

it  apparently  does  not  hold 

phone/customer records. 

• 

In addition to the two complaints made to the TPS  and Commissioner 

directly,  and 

the  WSTS 

referral,  the  Commissioner  has  given 

consideration  to  the  additional  32  reports  made  by  individuals  via 

'who-called .co.uk'. 

65. 

In  light  of  these  aggravating  features,  the  Commissioner  proposes  to 

increase the penalty to £70,000. 

66.  The  Commissioner  does  not  consider  there  to  be  any  mitigating 

features in  this case. 

67.  For the  reasons  explained  above,  the  Commissioner is  satisfied  that the 

conditions  from  section  SSA  (1)  DPA  have  been  met in  this  case.  He  is 

also  satisfied  that  the  procedural  rights  under  section  55B  have  been 

complied  with. 

68.  The  latter  has  included  the  issuing  of a  Notice  of Intent,  in  which  the 

Commissioner  set  out  his  preliminary  thinking.  The  Notice  of  Intent, 

together with a Preliminary Enforcement Notice, were sent by post to the 

company's  registered  office  address  on  19  July  2022  and  also  to  the 

email  address  used  by 

the  company 

to  correspond  with 

the 

Commissioner  during  the  investigation  -

repairplansuk@gmail.com . 

Representations had  been  due by 18 August 2022, however on  3 August 

2022  The  Commissioner  received 

the  Envelope/Notices  back  as 

'Returned  to  Sender'.  The  email  containing 

the  Notices  was  not 

acknowledged,  however  the  Commissioner  did  receive  an  electronic 

'delivery receipt'.  The  Representations  deadline  date of 18 August 2022 

passed,  and  on  15  September  2022  The  Commissioner  sent  a  further 

18 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

copy  of  the  Notices  to  the  company  director  at  his  home  address, 

allowing a further 21  days for representations (i.e. until 5 October 2022). 

A search  against the tracking number for this post shows that delivery is 

pending 

following  a 

failed  attempt  on  16  September  2022.  The 

Commissioner  has  taken  all  reasonable  steps  to  ensure  service  of the 

preliminary Notices  in  this case. 

69.  The  Commissioner has  received  no  representations from  RPUK. 

70.  The  Commissioner is  accordingly entitled to issue  a monetary penalty in 

this case. 

71.  The  Commissioner  has  considered  whether,  in  the  circumstances,  he 

should  exercise  his  discretion  so  as  to issue  a monetary penalty. 

72.  The  Commissioner  has  attempted  to  consider  the  likely  impact  of  a 

monetary penalty on  RPUK  but has  been  unable to do  so  given  the  lack 

of recent publicly available  information. The  Notice of Intent had  invited 

RPUK  to  serve  financial  representations  in  response,  however  the 

company has since failed to engage with the Commissioner, and  no such 

information  has  been  received.  The  Commissioner  is  concerned  that 

RPUK  may  be  seeking  to  evade  regulatory  action,  and  considers  in  the 

circumstances that a penalty remains the appropriate course. 

73.  The  Commissioner's  underlying  objective 

in 

imposing  a  monetary 

penalty  notice  is  to  promote  compliance  with  PECR.  The  making  of 

unsolicited direct marketing calls is a matter of significant public concern. 

A monetary penalty in  this case  should  act as  a general  encouragement 

towards compliance with the law,  or at least as  a deterrent against non 

compliance,  on  the  part  of  all  persons  running  businesses  currently 

engaging  in  these  practices.  This  is  an  opportunity to reinforce the need 

for businesses to ensure  that they are  only telephoning  consumers who 

19 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

are  not registered  with  the TPS  and/or specifically  indicate that they do 

not object to receiving these calls. 

74. 

In  making  his  decision, the Commissioner has  had  regard  to the factors 

set out in  s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015;  including:  the nature 

and  level  of risks  associated  with  non-compliance,  including  the  risks  to 

economic growth;  the  willingness  and  ability of the  business to address 

non-compliance;  the  likely  impact  of the  proposed  intervention  on  the 

business, and the likely impact of the proposed intervention on  the wider 

business  community,  both  in  terms  of  deterring  non-compliance  and 

economic benefits to legitimate businesses. 

75.  For  these  reasons,  the  Commissioner  has  decided  to  issue  a  monetary 

penalty in  this case. 

The amount of the penalty 

76.  Taking  into account all  of the above, the Commissioner has decided that 

a  penalty  in  the  sum  of  £70,000  (seventy  thousand  pounds)  is 

reasonable  and  proportionate  given  the  particular facts  of the  case  and 

the  underlying  objective in  imposing the penalty. 

Conclusion 

77.  The  monetary  penalty  must  be  paid  to  the  Commissioner's  office  by 

BACS transfer or cheque by 5 January 2023 at the latest. The monetary 

penalty  is  not  kept  by  the  Commissioner  but  will  be  paid  into  the 

Consolidated  Fund  which  is  the  Government's  general  bank  account  at 

the  Bank of England. 

20 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

78. 

If the Commissioner receives full  payment of the monetary penalty by 4 
January  2023 the  Commissioner will  reduce  the  monetary  penalty  by 

20%  to  £56,000  (fifty-six thousand  pounds).  However,  you  should 

be  aware that the  early  payment discount is  not available  if you  decide 

to exercise your right of appeal. 

79.  There  is  a  right of appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 

against: 

(a) the  imposition  of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b)  the  amount  of  the  penalty  specified 

in 

the  monetary  penalty 

notice. 

80.  Any  notice  of appeal  should  be  received  by the Tribunal  within  28  days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 

81. 

Information  about appeals  is  set out in  Annex  1. 

82.  The  Commissioner  will  not  take  action  to  enforce  a  monetary  penalty 

unless: 

•  the  period  specified  within  the  notice  within  which  a  monetary 

penalty  must be  paid  has  expired  and  all  or any  of the  monetary 

penalty has not been  paid; 

•  all  relevant  appeals  against the  monetary  penalty  notice  and  any 

variation  of it have  either been  decided  or withdrawn;  and 

•  the  period  for  appealing  against  the  monetary  penalty  and  any 

variation  of it has expired. 

21 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

83. 

In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland,  the  monetary  penalty  is 

recoverable by Order of the County Court or the High Court.  In Scotland, 

the monetary penalty can  be  enforced  in  the same manner as  an  extract 

registered  decree  arbitral  bearing  a warrant for execution  issued  by the 

sheriff court of any sheriffdom  in  Scotland. 

Dated  the  28th  day of November 2022. 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

22 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIGHTS  OF  APPEAL  AGAINST  DECISIONS  OF  THE  COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  55B(S)  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998  gives  any  person 

upon whom a monetary penalty notice has been  served a right of appeal 

to the First-tier Tribunal  (Information Rights)  (the 'Tribunal') against the 

notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the  notice  against which  the  appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance with the law;  or 

b) 

to  the  extent  that  the  notice  involved  an  exercise  of 

discretion  by the  Commissioner,  that he  ought to  have  exercised 

his discretion  differently, 

the  Tribunal  will  allow  the  appeal  or  substitute  such  other  decision  as 

could  have  been  made  by  the  Commissioner.  In  any  other  case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may  bring  an  appeal  by  serving  a  notice  of  appeal  on  the 

Tribunal  at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

23 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Telephone:  0300  123 4504 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The  notice  of appeal  should  be  sent so  it is  received  by the 

Tribunal  within  28  days of the date of the notice. 

b) 

If your notice  of appeal  is  late the Tribunal  will  not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has  extended the time for complying  with  this 

rule. 

4. 

The  notice of appeal  should  state:-

a) 

your  name  and  address/name  and  address  of  your 

representative  (if any); 

b) 

an  address  where  documents  may  be  sent or delivered  to 

you; 

c) 

the name and  address  of the Information Commissioner; 

d) 

details  of  the  decision  to  which  the  proceedings  relate; 

e) 

the 

result 

that 

you 

are 

seeking; 

f) 

the grounds on  which  you  rely; 

g) 

you  must  provide  with  the  notice  of  appeal  a  copy  of  the 

monetary 

penalty 

notice 

or 

variation 

notice; 

h) 

if you  have  exceeded  the  time  limit  mentioned  above  the 

notice  of appeal  must  include  a  request  for  an  extension  of time 

and the reason  why the notice of appeal  was not provided  in  time. 

24 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

5. 

Before  deciding whether or not to appeal  you  may wish  to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an  appeal a party may 

conduct his case  himself or may be  represented  by any person  whom  he 

may appoint for that purpose. 

6. 

The  statutory  provisions  concerning  appeals  to  the  First-tier 

Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  are  contained  in  section  55B(S)  of,  and 

Schedule  6  to,  the  Data  Protection  Act  1998,  and  Tribunal  Procedure 

(First-tier  Tribunal) 

(General  Regulatory  Chamber)  Rules  2009 

(Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

25 

