22.02.2022
Fine for GDPR violation

In February, the National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at the operator of the Professional Civil Society of Lawyers "Sabou, Burz & Cuc" and found that it violated the provisions of art. 5 para. (1) lit. a), b), c), f) and para. (2) and of art. 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The operator of the Professional Civil Society of Lawyers "Sabou, Burz & Cuc" was fined 4,946 lei, the equivalent of 1,000 EURO.
The investigation was started as a result of a complaint that the operator disclosed the personal data of a petitioner (customer of the operator) without his consent and prior information, by posting an address received by him from a public institution on a group of WhatsApp used by lawyers of a bar.
During the investigation, it was found that the Professional Civil Society of Lawyers "Sabou, Burz & Cuc" disclosed the personal data of the person concerned (name, surname, home address, information related to a case pending before a court) on a WhatsApp group consisting of 247 members, without legal basis, excessively and incompatible with the original purpose of their collection, as well as without the adoption of technical and organizational measures to preserve the confidentiality of this data, thus violating the provisions of art. 5 para. (1) lit. a), b), c), f) and para. (2), as well as of art. 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
At the same time, the following corrective measures were applied to the operator:

 the corrective measure to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation of the operations of collection and further processing of the petitioner's personal data in order to ensure the notification of all members of the WhatsApp group used by lawyers of a bar in order to delete the address posted on this group;
 the corrective measure to ensure compliance with the General Regulation on Data Protection of the operations of collection and further processing of personal data within the legal relations of assistance and representation of the operator's clients, so as to avoid the disclosure of personal data obtained from them, outside of situations permitted by law, including through regular training of persons who process data under the authority of the operator.

A.N.S.P.D.C.P.