THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

 

  LfDI brings color to the streets of the state capital!

Continuation of the format "Data protection as a cultural task"

May 25, 2018

 
 
Yes, you heard right.
 
On Monday, May 28, 2018, Dr. Stefan Brink together with the concept
artist Florian Mehnert as part of the art campaign FREIHEIT 2.0 chalk stripes
the streets of our state capital.
 
What does freedom mean for each individual in the dawning digital age
us?
 
How much freedom do we have?
 
Still?
 
In particular, what does protecting our privacy mean in an era that has no
knows more secrets, the transparency of private matters has become a mantra
considers any demarcation towards the public strange, even suspicious
explained?
 
This is one of the central questions that concern the "liberty guards".
 
“An answer cannot and must not only be about administrative and legal regulations or
entrepreneurial and/or political interests.
 
FREEDOM is so much more…..!”
 
according to the LfDI.
 
For this reason he supports the impressive art project FREIHEIT 2.0 des
conceptual artist Florian Mehnert in the literal sense actively and lays himself
hands on
 

Königstrasse 10a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

- 2 -

FREEDOM 2.0 is an art installation in the public space of the state capital
Stuttgart. An installation that consists of several elements and in which everyone
have and can contribute.
 
From June 2nd to June 24th, 2018, numerous events will be held in the StadtPalais
– Museum for Stuttgart and also offered in the Church of St. Maria in the Gerberviertel.
You can find the program at: http://www.freiheit2-0.de/programm.html
 
“Art is a wonderful medium to ask questions, seek answers and
also to be found.”, continues the state commissioner.
 
And Florian Mehnert impressively demonstrates this. His artistic approach
fits seamlessly into the decision of the LfDI to make data protection a cultural task
clear up.
 
In addition to the classic fulfillment of tasks as a supervisory authority,
Topic "Data protection as a cultural task" as part of regular events
already firmly established and together with various partners from completely new,
unconventional and unusual perspectives are illuminated. the brisk
Participation in previous events and the positive feedback
have shown that this unusual approach is a complete success.
 
With the support of the art project FREIHEIT 2.0, this approach is being expanded to a
new, even more demanding and promising level.
 
The state representative and the concept artist Florian Mehnert are looking forward to it
to discover FREEDOM 2.0 together with you!
 
You can find more information about FREEDOM 2.0 at: http://www.freiheit2-0.de/.
 
 
Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at
www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

