Case number: NAIH-3145-5 / 2021.

Subject: Partially upheld decision, Partial order
and trade secrets

History: NAIH / 2019/6534.
NAIH / 2020/98 /
The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
Applicant (hereinafter: the Applicant) with […] (hereinafter: the Applicant) with the Applicant in 2000.
with a foreign exchange account contract concluded on 27 September (hereinafter: foreign exchange account
contract) on 29 August 2019
take the following decisions in the data protection authority proceedings initiated following the request of:
I.1. The Authority shall decide on the application of the Applicant
partially corrects
and notes that the Applicant, in the absence of a proper legal basis and purpose, stored on May 25, 2018 and
In the period between November 8, 2019, the foreign currency account is related to the contract and related to it
personal data of the Applicant in connection with the documentation.
I.2. In its decision, the Authority ordered the deletion of the Applicant 's personal data,
Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. the law (a
hereinafter referred to as the Infotv.) in connection with the data protection reform of the European Union, and
Act XXXVIII of 2018 amending other related laws. promulgated by law - 2018.
Infotv., effective from 26 July Infringement of Section 4 (1) - (4) and Section 20 (c)
the processing of personal data by natural persons
the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation or
GDPR) in breach of Article 5 (1) (a), (b), (d), (e), (f) and (2)
application
rejects.
I.3.The Authority obliges the Applicant to initiate a judicial review
the expiry of the relevant time limit for bringing an action or, in the case of a review, the court
within 15 days of its decision, declare that it has been stored and destroyed after the deadline
destroyed all related contract documents.

II. The Authority shall, by order of the official procedure, the data processing prior to 25 May 2018
examination
terminates.
III. By ordering the Authority, the Anonymisation / Deletionation Methodology and the Banking
grant the request for the names of the systems to be treated as business secrets.

2

ARC. The Authority shall make the consolidated accounts of the applicant available to the Authority
rejects the Authority's request for confidential treatment by the Authority.
I.3. the fulfillment of the obligation pursuant to point 1 to the Applicant as of the taking of the measure
Must be in writing within 15 days - the supporting evidence and any balance of interests
to the Authority. In the event of non - compliance with the obligation a
Authority shall order the enforcement of the decision.

***
By Decision No I and Annex II there is no administrative remedy against the order,
but within 30 days of service, by application to the Metropolitan Court
may be challenged in an administrative action. The application must be submitted electronically to the Authority,
which forwards it to the court together with the case file. The request for a hearing shall be made by:
must be indicated in the application. An action against the order is brought by the court
in a simplified trial. Not in full personal exemption
for the beneficiaries, the fee for the court review procedure is HUF 30,000, the material fee for the lawsuit is recorded
is subject to law. Legal representation is mandatory in proceedings before the Metropolitan Court.
A III. and IV. There is no place for an independent remedy against the order under point 1, it is only the case
may be challenged in an appeal against a decision on the merits.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
I.1. On 29 August 2019, the Applicant submitted a petition in which he was a data protection authority
initiated proceedings.
The Applicant submitted in the application that on September 27, 2000 a foreign currency account contract
concluded with the Applicant. According to the Applicant, the Applicant has a foreign currency account contract
personal data relating to personal data without a legal basis, in addition to the statutory retention period, your consent
without treating it to this day. The Applicant attached to his application a copy of the foreign currency account contract,
referred to point 30, according to which, if 90 days after the date of signature of the contract
If the account is not credited, the contract will automatically expire. The Applicant
According to the statement, the contract was terminated on 27 December 2000 on the basis of this clause
nevertheless, the Applicant has no doubt that the foreign currency account contract until 28 June 2017
retained, as a copy of which was filed by the Applicant in an official letter dated 28 June 2017
sent a copy to the Applicant.
The Applicant assumes that the Applicant will continue to do so in connection with the foreign currency account contract
also handles the Applicant 's personal data, as its deletion has not been notified to date by the
Requested. This assumption of the Applicant was not supported by documents or other evidence
in support.
The Applicant has attached a copy of the following documents:
-

Magyar Nemzeti Bank - dated 6 December 2016 - No. [….] order,

3

-

Declaration [….] Of the applicant, dated 13 January 2017,
Applicant - dated June 28, 2017 - Applicant wrote to the e-mail sent on May 22, 2017
reply and the reply of the Applicant dated 12 July 2017,
foreign exchange account agreement.

The Applicant requested the following from the Authority:
-

-

-

-

-

-

The Authority shall determine whether the foreign currency account in connection with the contract, its
12/27/2008 violated the “Infotv. Section 17 (2)
and the new Infotv. § 20 (c) ”as the foreign currency account contract
it was unlawfully retained until 28.06.2017, and to this day, that is
the purpose of data processing has been abolished and the statutory data processing period has expired in 2008, respectively
the Applicant has no other legal basis for the related data processing. (the
hereinafter referred to as point 1 of the application)
The Authority shall determine whether the foreign currency account in connection with the contract, its
12/27/2008 violated the “Infotv. and the new
Infotv. Section 4 (1) - (4), as the principle of purpose limitation and the referenced legislation
violated the principles set out in this provision and the foreign exchange account contract
"Treats it differently from its purpose to this day", despite being subject to legal provisions
only 2008.12. He could have handled it until 27. ('point 2 of the application')
The Authority should establish in relation to the foreign exchange account contract that its
violated the “Infotv. Section 5 (1) a) -b)
and the new Infotv. Section 5 (1) (a) to (b) ”by concluding a foreign currency account contract
has nevertheless been unlawfully retained and personal data relating to it are handled by
to date that it would have a legal authority to do so or the Applicant’s consent
nor did he add to this data management. ('point 3 of the application')
the Authority shall determine the foreign currency account in connection with the contract
12/27/2008 By the date of retention, the Applicant violated the general
Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation 1.A., 1.B .; 1.D .; 1.E .; 1.F and (2) by a
the basic requirement of purpose and the key laid down in the cited paragraphs
principles, as the foreign exchange contract referred to is treated differently to date and
handled it until 26.06.2017 although it was only required by law until 27.12.2008
could have handled it. ('point 4 of the application')
The Authority shall determine this in the foreign exchange account agreement and its documentation
that its decision of 27.12.2008 violated the
He requested Article 6 (1) (a) to (c) of the General Data Protection Regulation by stating that a
nevertheless illegally kept the foreign currency account agreement and related to it
handles personal data to this day to be legally authorized to do so, and
Applicant also did not consent to this data processing. (hereinafter referred to as the application)
Point 5)
With reference to the above, the Authority shall oblige the Applicant to comply with the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Account Agreement and
destruction of its documentation. ('point 6 of the application')

At the request of the Applicant, on the right to self-determination of information and freedom of information
2011 CXII. Pursuant to Section 60 (1) of the Act (hereinafter: the Information Act), NAIH / 2019/6534.
The data protection authority proceedings were initiated on 29 August 2019.
The Applicant issued a request for rectification of the deficiency dated 18 September 2019
In its reply, it submitted that it supported the alleged violations committed by the Applicant
in relation to the facts and evidence, refers to:
The foreign currency account contract on page 4, paragraph 30 specifies that if the contract
within 90 days of signing the account will not be credited, its currency number

4

contract is automatically terminated. Given that the invoice is the signing of a contract
The credit was not credited within 90 days after the end of the year.
ceased on. The Applicant has no documents on the termination of the contract, as a
Applicant did not send him such a document. The Applicant attached from the Applicant 2017.
06.28. sent a copy of the contract as an attachment to the reply received on
Code […] entered by the applicant.
In addition to the above, the Applicant supplemented his application with the following three partial applications, which
largely coincided with what was stated in the Applicant's first submission:
-

-

-

The Authority shall establish that the Applicant is in connection with the foreign exchange account agreement
infringed Article 5 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation because of the purpose
the principle of restraint and the principles set out in that legal provision
violated it because it “treats the foreign exchange account agreement differently from its purpose to this day”
despite the fact that, according to legal provisions, only He could have handled it until 27. (the
hereinafter referred to as point 7 of the application)
The Authority notes with respect to the Foreign Exchange Account Agreement that its
The applicant infringed Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation by retaining it after
Article 1 (1) (a) to (c) by keeping the foreign exchange account
it is unlawful and treats your personal information to this day to that end
would have a legal authorization, nor did the Applicant give its consent
for data management. ('point 8 of the application')
With reference to the above, the Authority shall bind the Applicant with the foreign exchange account agreement
and in connection with its documentation, the Applicant is personal
to delete his / her data, as well as to delete the previous [….] address of the Applicant. (hereinafter:
point 9 of the application)

I.2. In addition to the notice of initiation of the procedure, the Authority has two clarifications
invited the Applicant to make a statement on one occasion, to which the
Requested:
I.2.1. Statement of the Applicant dated 8 November 2019, no business secrets
sent in a statement dated 5 February 2020
The Applicant confirmed the Applicant's presumption that the foreign currency account
manages (stores) a contract. The reason for processing data beyond the mandatory retention period is an administrative error,
which did not appear to the Applicant even when the Applicant’s right of access
sent a copy of the foreign currency account contract to the Applicant in order to ensure
The Applicant will automatically delete the data stored electronically, on a paper basis
However, although the scope of the contracts to be canceled is automatic,
manual destruction by an administrator.
The Applicant does not store the foreign currency account agreement of the Applicant in electronic form, as the
Applicant started scanning the product dossier of individuals in late 2013, more
stairs. About the fact that the Applicant manages the foreign currency account agreement only on paper
It also informed the Applicant in 2017 and 2018.
A foreign currency account contract - in addition to the fact of the foreign currency account contract and the date of its conclusion -
does not contain data that the Applicant would not process in relation to the Applicant
legally.

5

The Applicant shall submit the original, single copy of the Foreign Exchange Account Agreement on November 8, 2019
destroyed it.
I.2.2. Statement of the Applicant dated 9 January 2020
The contracts to be annulled are administrative in the process of destruction
(administrator) error beyond the retention period of the Applicant's foreign currency account contract
data management.
The foreign currency account contract was canceled on November 8, 2019. This was the
a single copy of the original foreign exchange account agreement. Separate minutes of cancellation a
Applicant did not prepare because in this context NAIH / 2019/6534/5. order no
and the signatories to that letter carried out the
destruction, so no separate report was drawn up.
The Applicant's personal data relating to the Applicant's name and address are natural
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the protection of such data
repealing Directive (EU) 2016/679 on the free movement of persons and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
pursuant to Article 6 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation
continue to be treated on the basis of a legitimate interest. The Applicant referred in this regard to the general
recital 65 of the Data Protection Regulation, according to which personal data - is mandatory
beyond its retention period, its further retention may be considered lawful, inter alia, if it is legal
compliance with legal obligations and the submission and enforcement of legal claims, and
necessary to protect them. The personal data of the Applicant mentioned above are
largely in proceedings initiated by the Applicant to protect legal claims
handles.
Deletion of the personal data of the Applicant's foreign currency account related to the contract
initiated, however, with reference to the Requested proceedings pending in general
pursuant to Article 17 (3) of the Data Protection Regulation.
The Applicant has requested from the Authority that the anonymisation / deletion
methodology and the names of its banking systems and made available to the Authority
treat your consolidated financial statements as business secrets.
I.3. In the exercise of its right of access to the file, the Applicant requested the Authority to issue NAIH / 2019/6534/9. s.
and a copy of the Applicant's reply dated 8 November 2019.
By letter dated 20 November 2019, the applicant amended and expanded his application to 7-9. points of the
According to the following:
-

„7. s. official request: I ask the esteemed NAIH to establish that the data controller
[…] The supplement to my foreign currency account contract concluded on 27.09.2000
dossiers (attached as Annexes 1.B and 1C to the application of 18.09.2019), the
On September 27, 2000
knitted
foreign currency account
my contract
in connection with
and
the
old […] in a foreign exchange account contract
my address, the number of my old identity card, the foreign currency account dated 27.09.2000
number as my referenced personal data after 27.12.2008 or
Infringed Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation (2016/679) by retaining it after 25.05.2018
1. Paragraphs A, 1.B, 1.C, 1.D, 1.E, 1F and 2, and in particular the purpose limitation
and the key principles set out in those paragraphs,
as my personal data, personal documents referred to in this section for the purpose

6

-

-

it is treated differently to this day and has been treated until 08.11.2019, although it is required by law
could have managed only until 27.12.2008. "
„No. 8 official request: I ask the esteemed NAIH to establish that the data controller
[…] The supplement to my foreign currency account contract concluded on 27.09.2000
dossiers (attached as Annexes 1.B and 1.C to the application dated 18.09.2019), the
On September 27, 2000
knitted
foreign currency account
my contract
in connection with
and
the
included in a foreign exchange account agreement and included separately in […] 's systems
my old […] address, which is also included separately in my systems, the number of my old identity card, a
In connection with the foreign currency account number dated 27.09.2000 as my referenced personal data
By retaining it after 27.12.2008 or after 25.05.2018
Article 6 of the Data Protection Regulation (2016/679) 1.A., 1.B., 1.C. as in this point
my personal data and personal documents referenced are handled differently today
and managed it until 08.11.2019, although it could only have managed it until 27.12.2008. ”
„No. 9 Official request: I would like the NAIH to order […] on 27.09.2000
foreign currency account in connection with additional documentation related to my contract
(attached as Annexes 1B and 1C to the application of 18.09.2019), concluded on 27.09.2000
foreign currency account in connection with my contract and in the foreign currency account agreement and the
[…] My old […] address, which is included separately in my systems, my old ID number
and my account number under the contract of September 27, 2000 is credible as my personal information
deleted on both paper and digital basis, given that this is personal
the data processing period of my data has expired and to preserve it is lawful or affected by […]
has no legal basis by delegation. "

The Authority's request for access to the file was granted by the Authority and did not contain business secrets
After sending a copy of the documents, the Applicant will reply on 25 November 2019
sent requests for evidence and comments to the Authority.
The Applicant assumed that the Applicant had scanned the foreign currency account contract, thus
In this context, it requested the Authority to invite the Applicant to make a statement as follows
(Evidence No. 1):
-

when you scanned the foreign currency account agreement,
why you did not notify the Authority of this fact,
whether it manages the foreign exchange account agreement digitally,
if you don’t handle it, when you canceled it and how you can prove it in a credible way.

On 11 March 2020, the Applicant again inspected the business of the proceedings at the seat of the Authority
non-confidential - and then by letter to the Authority dated 29 March 2020
comments and, in part, the same motions of evidence as before and more recently
also submitted a motion for proof.
In its statement of 25 November 2019, the Applicant indicated that the Applicant had a - a
In Case No. […] before the Authority, he stated that the Applicant
scanned the Applicant's signature sample in connection with the contract, so that in 2000
scanned a sample signature in 2002. From this, the Applicant concluded that
is likely to still store the signature sample in the Requested, and it is likely that the
foreign exchange account contract was also scanned by the Applicant at that time. The Applicant a
did not provide any evidence to substantiate its allegations.
The Applicant has requested the Authority to invite the Applicant again to make a statement and request
information on when the foreign currency account contract has been terminated. (Proof No. 2)
Furthermore, the Applicant claims that it is excluded that the Applicant did not scan the

7

the general procedure for the Applicant is that all contracts must be submitted
scan.
The Applicant also requested to be heard by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Applicant in order to
to declare that it is indeed the general procedure of the Applicant that all
contract must be scanned. (Evidence No. 3)
The Applicant also requested that the Authority request from the Applicant from June 2017 to November 2019
records of archival queries for the period between
would be that the Applicant does not actually manage the Applicant’s foreign currency account contract, but
store it electronically (Evidence 4) and also requested by the Applicant
in this connection, that the Authority also hear […] as a witness (Evidence No. 5).
The Applicant objected in his remark that the Applicant had not provided any evidence of the
cancellation of a foreign exchange account contract, merely stated the fact of cancellation.
II. Applicable legal provisions
On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Covered by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information
CXII. Pursuant to Section 2 (2) of the Information Act (hereinafter: the Information Act), the General Data Protection Act
This Regulation shall apply with the additions set out therein.
Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation "personal data" means identified or identifiable
any information relating to a natural person ("data subject"); identifiable by that natural
a person who, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier such as a name, number,
location data, online identification or physical, physiological, genetic,
on the basis of one or more factors relating to his or her intellectual, economic, cultural or social identity
identifiable.
Personal data pursuant to Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not processed
in a way incompatible with those objectives; ("Purpose limitation")
Processing of personal data under Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following is met:
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes
treatment;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which one of the parties is a party;
or to take action at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
required;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(d) processing is in the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person
necessary for its protection;
(e) the processing is in the public interest or a public authority vested in the controller
necessary for the performance of the task
(f) processing for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the data subject take precedence over those interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms which call for the protection of personal data,
especially if the child concerned.

8

Point (f) of the first subparagraph shall not apply to the performance of their duties by public authorities
data management during
Pursuant to Article 17 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to
that, at his request, the controller deletes his personal data without undue delay
data, and the controller is obliged to provide personal data concerning the data subject
delete it without undue delay if the data subject withdraws the authorization referred to in Article 6 (1) (a).
consent to the processing, and there is no consent to the processing
other legal basis.
Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation:
The controller shall keep the state of the art and the cost of implementation and the costs of implementation
the nature, scope, circumstances and purposes of the processing and the rights of natural persons; and
taking into account the varying degrees of probability and severity of the risk to their freedoms
in determining the method of data management as well as in the course of data management
carry out technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymisation, aimed at
data protection principles, such as the effective implementation of data protection;
necessary to meet the requirements of this Regulation and to protect the rights of data subjects
incorporating guarantees into the data management process.
2. The controller shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures
to ensure that only such personal data is processed by default
necessary for the specific purpose of the processing. That is the obligation
applies to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of their processing and the duration of their storage
and their accessibility. These measures must, in particular, ensure that:
personal data by default without the intervention of a natural person
become accessible to an indefinite number of persons.
3. An approved certification mechanism in accordance with Article 42 may be used to demonstrate this
that the controller complies with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b), (c) and (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation
acting within the corrective power of the competent authority:
(b) reprimands the controller or the processor if he or she is acting in a data-processing capacity
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation;
(c) instruct the controller or processor to comply with this Regulation
the exercise of his rights under this Regulation;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in this paragraph.
Pursuant to Article 83 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, all supervisory authorities
ensure that any breach of this Regulation referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6
the administrative fines imposed shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each case
be strong.
Pursuant to Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, administrative fines are imposed by
referred to in Article 58 (2) (a) to (h) and (j), as the case may be
should be imposed in addition to or instead of measures. When deciding if it is necessary
to impose an administrative fine or to determine the amount of the administrative fine
in each case due account shall be taken of the following:

9

(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the processing in question
the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by the infringement;
the extent of the damage they have suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) the mitigation of damage caused to the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
and the technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Article 32;
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and the possible negative effects of the breach
the degree of cooperation to alleviate
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor has reported the breach and, if so, what
in detail;
(i) if previously against the controller or processor concerned, in the same
one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2) has been ordered orally
compliance with revolving measures;
(j) whether the controller or processor has kept itself approved in accordance with Article 40
codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42;
and
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial gain gained or avoided as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
loss.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), the right to the protection of personal data
the Authority shall, at the request of the data subject,
to initiate proceedings.
Unless otherwise provided in the General Data Protection Regulation, data protection was initiated upon request
CL of the General Administrative Procedure Act 2016. Act (a
hereinafter referred to as the Act) shall apply with the exceptions specified in the Infotv.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 27 (2), the authority shall ensure that the secrecy and
other data protected by law (hereinafter together: protected data) shall not be disclosed, nor
to an unauthorized person and the protection of such protected data as provided by law a
in the proceedings of the competent authority.
The Ákr. Pursuant to § 36, the application is submitted by the customer in writing or in person
a statement requesting that a right be instituted or a decision of the authority be granted, or
legitimate interest. Infotv. 60. (2) of the Data Protection Act
request for the initiation of an official procedure pursuant to Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may be submitted in the case provided for in Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
Subject to paragraph 1, any person concerned shall have the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority if:
the data subject considers that the processing of personal data concerning him or her violates the general
data protection regulation.
Pursuant to Section 62 (4) of the Act, the authority is free to choose the method of proof, and a
assess the available evidence in its sole discretion.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 46 (1) (a), the authority shall reject the application if the procedure
there is no statutory condition for initiating proceedings, and this law is different
does not impose any legal consequences, Ákr. Pursuant to Section 47 (1) (a), the authority shall initiate the procedure

10

terminate if the application had been rejected, but the reason is the procedure
became known to the authority after its initiation.
LIV of 2018 on the protection of business secrets. Act (hereinafter: Business Secret) § 1 (1)
business secrets relating to an economic activity in its entirety, or
not known as a whole or carrying out the economic activity concerned
a fact which is not easily accessible to
information, other data and compilation thereof, the confidentiality of which shall be:
the holder of the secrecy demonstrates the conduct normally expected in a given situation.
III. Decision
III.1. Data management before May 25, 2018
The Authority shall only apply for the requested data processing after 25 May 2018
can make statements in connection with data management, so Ákr. Section 47 (1) (a)
to examine the data management of the period before 25 May 2018 - the “old Infotv.
§ 4; to establish a violation of Section 5 and Section 17 (2) (d) ”
terminated the procedure on the ground that the application did not comply with Infotv. Section 60 (2)
as this part of the requested data processing period is general
Data Protection Regulation was not yet applicable, so before it before the Authority
cannot be initiated on the basis of a request for an official data protection procedure.
III.2. Data management after May 25, 2018
III.2.1. Paragraph 1 of the Applicant's application sought the Authority to establish that a
In connection with the foreign currency account contract concluded on September 27, 2000, its December 27, 2008 after the day
violated the “Infotv. § 20 (c) ”, as the foreign currency account
contract was unlawfully retained until 28.06.2017 and to this day, even though
the purpose of data processing has ceased and the statutory data processing period has expired in 2008, and a
The applicant has no other legal basis for data processing in this regard.
It has necessarily changed since the General Data Protection Regulation became applicable
Infotv. the scope of its provisions relating to the protection of personal data. The "new Infotv."
ie the Infotv.
year CXII. amending the law in connection with the data protection reform of the European Union, and
Act XXXVIII of 2018 amending other related laws. Act (hereinafter:
Paragraph 2 (2) of the Act amending the Act of Accession of the
processing of personal data covered by the General Data Protection Regulation
data protection decree in the Infotv. with the additions specified in its provisions
apply. These do not include the provisions referred to in the Applicant's application.
Given that this part of the Applicant's application is manifestly unfounded, as Infotv.
provisions of the Applicant that are supposed to be violated by the Applicant - Infotv. § 20 (c) - the application on this
The Applicant did not have to apply for the data processing that is the subject of the application, therefore the Authority is the request
he rejected this part.
III.2.2. Paragraph 2 of the Applicant's application sought the Authority to establish that a
foreign currency account in connection with the contract, its 27.12.2008 after the date of retention
violated the “new Infotv. § 4 (1) - (4) ”, as the principle of purpose limitation
and infringed the principles set out in that provision, and
foreign exchange account contract is “treated differently from purpose to date”, despite being statutory
only in accordance with the provisions of He could have handled it until 27.

11

The previous III.2.1. For the reasons set out in point (a), the Authority considers this manifestly unfounded part
also rejected it because Infotv. provisions in force by the Applicant - Infotv.4. § - the Applicant did not have to apply the data processing that is the subject of the application.
III.2.3. Paragraph 4 of the Applicant's application sought the Authority to establish a
foreign exchange account in connection with the contract that its after the date of retention of the
Applicant violated Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation. Article 1.A., 1.B .; 1.D .; 1.E .; 1.F and (2)
by laying down the basic requirement of purpose and set out in the cited paragraphs
key principles, as the foreign exchange contract referred to is treated differently to this day
and handled it until 26.06.2017, although it could only handle it until 27.12.2008, according to the legal requirement
would be.
2017 on the prevention and deterrence of money laundering and terrorist financing.
year LIII. in accordance with the provisions of Section 57 (1) of the Act on Business Relationships
The Applicant is obliged to keep the personal data processed in this context for 8 years.
Pursuant to Section 169 (2) of Act C of 2000 on Accounting, you must retain for a period of 8 years a
Applicant's contracts as accounting documents.
The Applicant confirmed the Applicant's presumption that the foreign currency account
handled (stored) the contract beyond the statutory retention period. The mandatory
The reason for the processing beyond the retention period was an administrative error by the administrator, so the Authority
On the basis of the statements made by the applicant, it was established that during its data management process, the
It is unlawful to infringe Article 5 (1) (b) of the requested general data protection regulation
data processing was caused by the Applicant's omission or negligence, so the Authority partially approves the
The applicant's request to establish Article 5 (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
injury.
The Authority is of the opinion that the argument concerning the clerical error does not relieve the
from the responsibility of the controller, given that Article 4 (7) of the General Data Protection Regulation
Pursuant to point 1, the Applicant is considered to be a data controller and not an employee. The Applicant is
who organizes the process of data management and creates its conditions, not that
clerks. The most important feature of a data controller is that it has meaningful decision-making authority
has and is responsible for the handling of all data of the general data protection
compliance with the obligation laid down in this Regulation.
The Working Party on Data Protection set up under Article 29 of the Data Protection Directive (hereinafter
Working Party on Data Protection) 1/2010 on the concept of "controller" and "processor". number
in its opinion, it also stated that “Ultimately, the company or body should be held liable
for data processing and obligations under data protection law, unless
clear elements suggest that a natural person is responsible. […] However, such
even in cases where a specific natural person is appointed to ensure data protection
principles or to process personal data, this person will not be a data controller,
but acts on behalf of the legal person (company or public body) which
as data controller in the event of a breach of the principles. " By the clerk
The fact that the data was recorded incorrectly does not therefore constitute an excuse, in this case too
the data controller is responsible.
On the basis of all this, the unlawful data processing beyond the mandatory retention period is requested by the Applicant as
responsibility of the controller. Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation requires that
the data controller is properly technical and organizational throughout the data management process
take measures to ensure that, by default, only such

12

personal data which are relevant to the specific purpose of the processing
are required.
In relation to the above, the Authority is subject to the provisions of Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation
infringement of Article 5 (1) (b), Article 5 requested by the Applicant
Infringement of the provisions of paragraph 1 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (2) during the mandatory custody period
therefore cannot be established in the context of data processing beyond the request of the Applicant
rejects this part.
III.2.4. Paragraph 4 of the Applicant's application sought the Authority to establish a
foreign exchange account in connection with the contract that its after the date of retention
violated the Requested “new Infotv. Section 5 (1) (a) to (b) ”by stating that the foreign currency account
contract was nevertheless unlawfully retained and personal data relating to it
manages to this day that it would have a legal authority to do so and the Applicant’s consent
nor did he add to this data management
The previous III.2.1. For the reasons set out in point (a), the Authority considers this manifestly unfounded part
also rejected it because Infotv. provisions of the Applicant that are supposed to be violated by the Applicant - Infotv. § 5 - the Applicant did not have to apply the data processing that is the subject of the application.
III.2.5. Paragraph 5 of the Applicant's application sought the Authority to establish that a
“By violating the foreign exchange account agreement after 27.12.2008, the applicant violated the
Article 6 1.A of the General Data Protection Regulation; 1.B .; 1.C. without his consent
treats to this day ”.
A III.2.4. in accordance with the findings set out in point 1 above, that the Applicant confirmed the
Applicant's presumption that the foreign currency account contract is required by law
beyond the mandatory retention period without a legal basis - the Authority found that
In accordance with Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the
also infringed paragraph
III.2.6. Paragraph 6 of the Applicant's application was directed that the Authority should oblige the Applicant to a
to cancel a foreign currency account agreement.
The foreign currency account contract was canceled on November 8, 2019. Separate minutes
the cancellation was not made by the Applicant, because in this connection NAIH / 2019/6534/5. case number
in its reply to the order, and given that that letter
the signatories carried out the destruction, so no separate report was drawn up.
The Authority accepted the statement of the Applicants regarding the cancellation with reference to Ákr. § 64
(1), according to which, if not excluded by law, the customer may replace the
missing evidence if it is not possible to obtain it.
III.2.7. Paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Applicant's application sought the Authority to establish that
infringement of Article 5 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation and Article 6 (1)
(a) to (c) in connection with the processing of the data subject by the
identity card number, account number of the Applicant according to the contract of 27.09.2000)
The Applicant has stated that the currency number of the contract is a single copy
however, the Applicant pointed out that he had attached it to his initial application
also indicated in the letter that the Applicant together with the foreign exchange account contract and attached to it
Also submitted a document entitled "Individual Account Holder Master Data Report / Modification"
for which, among other data, the identity card number, account number and old
address was also indicated. The Applicant sent to the Authority - retained after the deadline
in its statement on the cancellation of the contract - did not state that this was the foreign currency account

13

a document related to the contract, the retention period of which is the custody of the account agreement
adjusted to its time, also destroyed it.
The Authority found that in view of the fact that the document referred to by the Applicant was
is related to a contract stored beyond the retention period, so the Applicant will do so together with the contract
also kept the document out of time, without any legal basis, in breach of Article 6 (1) of the GDPR,
therefore, the Authority granted the applicant's request. Furthermore, in view of the fact that the Applicant a
together with the annulment of the contract stored beyond the deadline, did not declare the contract stored beyond the deadline
also infringed Article 5 (2) of the GDPR.
III.2.8. Paragraph 9 of the Applicant's application was intended to oblige the Applicant to a
in connection with the foreign exchange account agreement and the related documentation
to delete his personal data, including the previous address of the Applicant, ie [….].
The Applicant stated that a single copy of the invoice agreement was stored out of time
however, he did not state that he had also deleted the related data sheet.
A III.2.7. For the reasons set out in Article 17 (3) (c) and (e) of the GDPR, the Authority
Grants the present part of the Applicant's application and instructs the Applicant to
to delete all documentation of a contract stored out of time.
III.3. Treatment as a trade secret
III.3.1. Anonymisation / deletion methodology used by the Applicant, name of banking systems
The Applicant's anonymisation / deletion methodology, as well as the banking method used by it
publication of the names of the schemes in either the General Data Protection Regulation or the
is not required by law, and therefore the Applicant, in its sole discretion, will keep this business a secret
the Authority will grant the Applicant's request in this respect.
III.3.2. Consolidated annual accounts provided to the Requested Authority
Section 154 (1) of Act C of 2000 on Accounting (hereinafter: the Accounting Act)
Under each double-entry bookkeeping manager, the annual accounts and the simplified annual accounts are required
report, in the case of a statutory audit, the audit clause or the clause
published together with an independent audit report, including a refusal to grant
With reference to the above, the Applicant, as the contractor keeping the double-entry bookkeeping by the Authority
The Authority will not treat the consolidated annual accounts made available to it as business secrets, as
is Accounting TV. on the basis of public data and therefore to be treated as a trade secret by the Requested
The Authority shall reject the relevant part of its application.
III.4. Petitions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 submitted by the Applicant - motions for proof
The Applicant foreign exchange account contract presented in his petition
occurred at the same time as the scan - assumption of scanning only
probable, he could not substantiate it with evidence, as the Applicant is the sample signature
concluded from the scan that the Applicant also had a foreign exchange contract
however, scanning the signature sample does not result in a contract
scanning, and since the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 62 (4), the authority is free to choose
the method of proof and the evidence available in its sole discretion
therefore did not consider it necessary to clarify the facts. The Applicant - a
Contrary to the Applicant 's claim, which the Applicant could not prove - he stated that the

14

does not store or have stored a foreign currency account contract, it also informed the Applicant in 2017
and in 2018. Statement of the applicant regarding the scanning of the foreign currency account contract
just an unproven statement.
The Ákr. With reference to Section 62 (4), the Authority did not consider it justified to
In connection with his request for proof no
in the context of the examination of the circumstances proposed by the Applicant, as the
Applicant acknowledged that it had kept the Applicant's foreign currency account contract overdue, i.e.
therefore, it is not justified to examine the date of termination of the contract.
Furthermore, the Applicant No. 1, 3, 4, 5. written in his motion for proof, so the Requested Contracts
nor is it necessary to examine the general practice of scanning
procedure initiated upon request, does not examine the general practice of the Applicant and the general practice
examination of what happened in the individual case does not necessarily provide an explanation, as the Applicant
expressly stated that by storing the Applicant's foreign currency account contract
there was a unique administrative error in this context.
III.5. Legal consequences
The Authority granted the Applicant's request in part and Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
(2) (b) condemns the Applicant for violating the general
Article 5 (1) (b) of the Data Protection Regulation and Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
for the purpose of storing the foreign exchange account contract without a proper purpose and legal basis, and
the Applicant violated Article 5 (2) of the GDPR and ordered in this connection that
that the deletion of documentation relating to a contract which has already been destroyed and which has been stored out of time
also make a statement.
The Authority examined of its own motion whether a data protection fine against the Applicant was justified.
imposition. As to whether the imposition of a data protection fine is justified, the Authority
Acting in accordance with the discretion based on the law, Infotv. Section 61 (1)
paragraph a) of the Infotv. 75 / A. And Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph.
The Authority considers the following circumstances to be relevant in relation to the non-imposition of a fine
considered as an attenuating circumstance:
-

-

In the context of cooperation with the Authority, it was assessed that the Applicant had identified the error
measures to eliminate unlawful data processing (General Data Protection Act)
Article 83 (1) (f) of the Regulation)
The Applicant is more complex, broadly repetitive, but different in smaller details
has applied for and continues to apply for the exercise of the rights of the data subject
To an applicant, making it almost untraceable which application was aimed at exactly what.
The serial submission of these applications makes it difficult and slower for your applications to be accurate and
proper assessment and performance by the Applicant. With these requests
In this context, 48 data protection authorities and investigations were initiated before the Authority
At the request of the Applicant, based on his complaint, which number clearly indicates that the Applicant a
imposes a heavy workload on the Applicant with his / her ongoing requests.

(Article 83 (2) (k) of the General Data Protection Regulation)

15

ARC. Other issues
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) determine the jurisdiction of the country
covers the whole territory.
The present decision of the Authority is based on Art. 80-81. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 61 (1). The decision is
Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final upon its communication.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 112 (1), Section 114 (1) and Section 116 (1) by decision
opposite and Ákr. Section 112 (2) (d), Section 114 (1) and Section 116 (1)
there is a right of appeal against the order through an administrative action.
The rules of the administrative lawsuit are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Rules of Administrative Procedure (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3) a)
Pursuant to point (aa) of the Act, the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction.
A Kp. Pursuant to Section 27 (1) (b), in proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of the General Court, the
representation is mandatory. A Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6), the filing of an application is administrative
shall not have suspensory effect. "
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter: E-Administration Act), the client's legal representative pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b)
obliged to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The
Information on the simplified lawsuit and the possibility to request a hearing can be found in the CC.
It is based on Section 77 (1) - (2) and Section 124 (5). The fee for an administrative lawsuit
XCIII of 1990 on levies. Act (hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1)
Define. From the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1)
Paragraph 1 (h) shall release the party instituting the proceedings.
Budapest, June 25, 2021
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

