

Bonn/Berlin, April 22, 2020


Press release 08/2020


  EDSA adopts further guidelines on COVID-19
On April 21, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) published two new guidelines on data protection during the fight against the pandemic. With its decisions, the EDPB provides information on how to handle health data for research purposes and on the principles of tracking tools. Both guidelines make direct reference to the outbreak of COVID-19.

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Professor Ulrich Kelber, spoke out early on in favor of uniform specifications at European level: people's health is currently the focus. All EDPB member countries face the same problems. I am therefore glad that we were able to agree on a common line. I particularly welcome the commitment to voluntary work. Both in research and in tracing contacts, only solutions that are transparent and work without coercion can be successful. It must be clear and easily understandable for what purpose the data is collected and when it is deleted again. Individual tracking or subsequent re-personalization must be excluded. As the supervisory authority, we will demand these principles from those responsible and developers.

The EDPB points out that the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is designed to be very research-friendly. Data protection does not stand in the way of research or the fight against the pandemic. Rather, only the GDPR enables the lawful processing of such sensitive health data. The same applies to the use of digital tools to combat the pandemic. Professor Kelber said: Apps and other tools can only be supportive measures. They are not a substitute for a functioning health system and mutual consideration.







contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











