


Press release 9/2022


  BfDI demands compliance with fundamental rights in chat control
The BfDI, Prof. Ulrich Kelber, criticizes the current draft regulation of the EU Commission to prevent and combat the sexual abuse of children: The so-called chat control offers hardly any protection for children, but would be Europe's entry into an unreasonable and comprehensive surveillance of private communication.



Source: ant-stock.adobe.com

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) and the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) have criticized the draft regulation very sharply in a joint statement. BfDI Professor Kelber said: Together with my European colleagues, I am committed to a significant improvement of the regulation. I will continue to advocate that the chat control is not implemented in this form. Germany and the federal ministries involved must now show that they respect fundamental rights and that this is also reflected in data protection and the protection of telecommunications secrecy.
In their statement, EDSA and EDPS point out the serious problems caused by the planned chat control: Monitoring of private communication through comprehensive interventions in telecommunications secrecy. Breaking through encrypted communication, which becomes a risk for everyone because security gaps can be exploited by criminals, for example. The error rates for the technologies to be used are too high, which will lead to a large number of unlawful suspicions. In addition, the EU Commission's draft regulation violates the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
BfDI Professor Kelber says: Effective and targeted measures should be implemented to combat child sexual abuse. Unreasonable mass surveillance is not one of them. We only know something like this from authoritarian states.
EDSA and EDPS have also issued a press release on the subject.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











