

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data on trade union membership by the employer (Dopravní podnik města Olomouc, a.s.)



The office carried out an inspection on the basis of a complaint, the subject of which was the suspicion that the inspected company had handed over an overview of part of the employees, members of one trade union, to representatives of the other trade union, to the extent of name, surname and the amount of the trade union allowance deducted from them as part of their pay, i.e. in particular suspected violations of the obligation to properly secure personal data. The inspectors did not find that the inspected person processed the collected personal data for a purpose other than the specified one, nor that there was a breach of personal data security. Therefore, it was not proven that the processing of personal data was contrary to the principle of purpose limitation or that the controlled person did not take sufficient technical and organizational measures to secure personal data. /679, so it was not proven that there was an unauthorized transfer of personal data of employees to a trade union organization. The inspection was conducted by inspector PaeDr. Jana Rybínová. Recommendation: Information on membership in a trade union belongs to special categories of personal data for the processing of which special guarantees are established. With regard to the risk of processing, the Office has been dealing with the processing of special categories of personal data for a long time. More information on special categories of personal data can be found at https://www.uoou.cz/5-zvlastni-kategorie-osobnich-udaj-citlive-udaje/d-27274.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Employers, human resources > Inspection of the processing of personal data on trade union membership by the employer (company Dopravní podnik města Olomouc, a.s.) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



