EDPB letter to the European Parliament, the Council, and the 
European Commission on data sharing for AML/CFT purposes in 

light of the Council’s mandate for negotiations 

Mr Eero Heinäluoma  
ECON Committee of the European Parliament 
 
Mr Damien Carême 
LIBE Committee of the European Parliament 
 
Sent by e-mail only 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brussels, 28 March 2023 
  Ref: OUT2023-0015  

 

Dear Mr Heinäluoma, 
Dear Mr Carême, 
 

On 20 July 2021, the European Commission has adopted a package of four legislative proposals aiming 
to strengthen the EU’s anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism1. This package 
includes  a  new  Regulation  on  AML/CFT  (hereinafter  “Proposal  for  a  Regulation  on  AML/CFT”)2 
including directly-applicable rules on, inter alia, the performance of customer due diligence by obliged 
entities and the reporting of suspicious activity or transactions, primarily to Financial Intelligence Units 
(FIUs).  

                                                           
1 European Commission, Anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism legislative package, 20 July 2021, 
available  at  :https://finance.ec.europa.eu/publications/anti-money-laundering-and-countering-financing-terrorism-legislat 
ive-package_en. The EDPS has expressed its Opinion on this AML/CFT legislative package on 22 September 2021. The Opinion 
is available at: https://edps.europa.eu/system/files/2021-09/21-09-22_edps-opinion-aml_en.pdf.  
2 European Commission, Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the Authority 
for Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) 
1094/2010,  (EU)  1095/2010,  20  July  2021,  COM/2021/420  final,  available  at:  https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52021PC0420.  
 

 

 

On  5  December  2022,  the  Council  of  the  European  Union  (Council)  adopted  its  position  on  the 
Commission’s Proposal for a Regulation on AML/CFT (hereinafter “Council’s mandate”)3. The Council’s 
mandate introduces provisions that would allow, under certain conditions, obliged entities, or where 
applicable public authorities, that are party to the “partnership for information sharing”4, to share 
with each other information concerning ‘’suspicious transactions’’ which is being, will be or has been 
reported,  primarily  to  FIUs  (Article  54(3a)),  as  well  as  personal  data  collected  in  the  course  of 
performing their customer due diligence obligations (Article 55(7)).  

In addition, the Council’s mandate would allow obliged entities to share between each other personal 
data collected in the course of performing their customer due diligence obligations, provided notably 
that  these  personal  data  involve  ‘’abnormalities  or  unusual  circumstances  indicating  money 
laundering or terrorist financing’’ (Article 55(5)). 

The EDPB acknowledges that the fight against money laundering and terrorism is an important public 
interest whose achievement deserves appropriate policies and measures. However, it reiterates the 
importance to strike a fair balance between this legislative objective and the interests underlying the 
fundamental rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data. 

Any measure adopted by Member States or EU institutions in the field of AML/CFT must be compatible 
with Articles 7, 8 and 52(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (Charter), the 
GDPR, and the relevant case law. In particular, the EDPB recalls that, according to Article 52(1) of the 
Charter, to be lawful, any limitation to the exercise of the fundamental rights to privacy and to the 
protection of personal data must, inter alia, be provided for by law, necessary and proportionate5. 

With this letter, the EDPB draws your attention to the significant risks posed by Articles 54(3a), 
55(5), 55(7) as amended by the Council’s mandate to the fundamental rights to privacy and to the 
protection  of  personal  data.  In  particular,  the  EDPB  expresses  its  serious  concerns  as  to  the 
lawfulness, necessity, and proportionality of the above-mentioned provisions, and recommends the 
co-legislators not to include them in the final text of the Proposal for a Regulation on AML/CFT.  

1.  Concerns related to the proportionality of Articles 54(3a), 55(5), and 55(7) of the Council’s 

mandate. 

Pursuant to Article 52(1) of the Charter, legislative measures that limit the fundamental rights to 
privacy and to the protection of personal data should not constitute a disproportionate interference 
to the exercise of these rights.  

                                                           
3 Council of European Union, Mandate for negotiations with the European Parliament on the Proposal for a Regulation on 
AML/CFT,  15517/22,  5  December  2022,  available  at:  https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-15517-2022-
INIT/en/pdf 
4 In accordance with definition (42), Article 2, of the Council’s proposal for amendments, ‘’partnership for information sharing 
in  AML/CFT  field’  refers  to  a  ‘’formal  cooperation  established  under  national  law  between  obliged  entities,  and  where 
applicable, public authorities, with the purpose of supplementing compliance with this Regulation through cooperation and 
by sharing and processing data, in particular through the use of new technologies and artificial intelligence”.  
5 Pursuant to Article 52(1) of the Charter, limitation to fundamental rights may be imposed as long as it is provided for by 
law and respect the essence of this right. Subject to the principle of proportionality, this limitation must be necessary and 
genuinely meet objective of general interest recognised by the Union or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of 
others. 
 

 

 

 

The EDPB considers that the impact of Articles 54(3a), 55(5), 55(7) of the Council’s mandate on the 
fundamental rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data would be particularly high. 

The setting up of public-private partnerships (“PPPs”) aiming to allow private parties (i.e. the obliged 
entities) to monitor subjects (i.e. their customers), on the basis of operational information provided 
by  law  enforcement  authorities,  and  possibly  related  to  ongoing  law  enforcement  investigations, 
would entail significant risks from a data protection perspective.6 In particular, the EDPB recalls that 
the combatting of crime is in essence a public task and that the allocation of the said task to private 
enterprises or PPP’s should be strictly limited and thoroughly scrutinized. From a privacy and data 
protection perspective, limiting the flow of information from obliged entities to public authorities 
constitutes a safeguard for individuals. Therefore, the processing operation concerning information 
on possible offences arising from the reported suspicious transactions should be, in principle, limited 
to public authorities, given their sensitive nature and their impact on the fundamental rights of the 
concerned individuals. 

Furthermore, the EDPB notes that the provisions proposed by the Council would allow data sharing 
(or data pooling) between obliged entities (without the involvement of public authorities). The data 
resulting  from  the  data  sharing/pooling  will  be  used  by  each  obliged  entity  to  implement  their 
AML/CFT obligations, i.e., customer due diligence obligations and reporting of suspicious transactions, 
if any. This implies very large scale processing, resulting in mass surveillance by private entities, the 
proportionality of which is highly questionable.  

Lastly, the EDPB points out to the warning expressed by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) that 
such data sharing may exacerbate the practice of de-risking7, which could ultimately increase the risk 
of  undue  exclusion  from  banking  services8.  Therefore,  in  practice,  the  impact  of  the  data 
sharing/pooling could have serious legal consequences for the person concerned, such as difficulties 
in opening or accessing a current account, in using means of payment, obtaining credit, etc. 

The significant risks and impacts that the Council's mandate entails, as well as the lack of studies 
attesting to the effectiveness of these provisions9, leads the EDPB to consider that the envisaged 
measures are not proportionate to the aims pursued. 

 

                                                           
6 See EDPS, Opinion 5/2020 on the European Commission’s action plan for a comprehensive Union policy on preventing 
money laundering and terrorism financing, 23 July 2020, paragraph 43, available at: https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/ 
publication/20-07-23_edps_aml_opinion_en.pdf. 
7 De-risking in AML/CFT is commonly defined as “the phenomenon of financial institutions terminating or restricting business 
relationships  with  clients  or  categories  of  clients  to  avoid,  rather  than  manage,  risk  in  line  with  the  FATF’s  risk-based 
approach.” See at: https://www.coe.int/en/web/moneyval/implementation/de-risking.  
8 The FATF also states that "termination of account relationships may force entities and individuals to use less regulated or 
unregulated channels". FATF, Partnering in the Fight Against Financial Crime: Data protection, technology, and private sector 
information  sharing,  July  2022,  paragraphs  45  and  63,  available  at:  https://www.fatf-gafi.org/en/publications/Digital 
transformation/Partnering-in-the-fight-against-financial-crime.html.  
9 See, in this respect, point 2 of this letter. 
 

 

 

2.  Concerns  related  to  the  necessity  of  Articles  54(3a),  55(5),  and  55(7)  of  the  Council’s 

mandate. 

Pursuant to Article 52(1) of the Charter, legislative measures that limit the fundamental rights to 
privacy and data protection must be necessary.    

In order to ensure that the processing of personal data is carried out with due respect of the notion 
of necessity, one should first review the effectiveness of the proposed measures in comparison with 
existing or alternative less intrusive measures. 

Against this background, the EDPB notes that no impact assessment was made to demonstrate the 
real benefit of the sharing of personal data as proposed in the Council’s mandate on the fight against 
money laundering and terrorist financing.10 

In this respect, the EDPB recalls that the necessity test implies the need for a combined, rigorous, 
multidisciplinary and fact-based assessment of the effectiveness of the measure for the objective 
pursued. Given the public interest purpose of AML/CFT, public authorities competent in AML/CFT, 
including at least the FIUs, should be involved in this assessment.  The EDPB also recommends that 
the impact of data pooling on the practice of "de-risking" and the quality of suspicious transaction 
reports be rigorously assessed, and that this be done in conjunction with the FIUs.  

Finally, the necessity test implies an assessment of whether alternative, less intrusive measures could 
be comparably effective for achieving the same objective. 

3.  Concerns related to the quality of legal provisions limiting the fundamental rights to privacy 

and to the protection of personal data. 

The EDPB recalls that, pursuant to Article 52(1) of the Charter, every limitation to the fundamental 
rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data must be ‘’provided for by law’’. This means 
that limitations must be based on legal provisions that are adequately accessible and foreseeable as 
to their effect and formulated with sufficient precision to enable any individuals to regulate their 
conduct accordingly.  

First, it must be examined whether the law that provides for a limitation is accessible and foreseeable. 
The EDPB highlights that, in presence of a law providing legal grounds for the processing of personal 
data, the mere existence of a law introducing (intrusive) sharing of personal data is not sufficient per 
se. Any law providing for a limitation on the fundamental rights to privacy and to the protection of 
personal data must fulfil specific quality requirements, namely be sufficiently detailed to ensure legal 
certainty and foreseeability, and provide appropriate safeguards to guarantee a fair balance between 
the public interest concerned, on the one hand, and the rights and freedoms of the data subjects, on 
the other hand. The Council’s mandate, and notably Article 54(3a) thereof, while aiming at pursuing 
an  important  public  interest,  introduces  intrusive  personal  data  processing  without  adequately 
specifying under which conditions this processing is justified, thereby lacking the foreseeability and 

                                                           
10As the measures in the Council’s mandate were not part of the initial Commission’s Proposal, no such assessment was 
included in the Commission’s impact assessment. 
 

 

 

the legal certainty that the law should provide to all concerned natural -i.e. citizens - and legal persons, 
including for obliged entities that will process these personal data for AML/CFT purposes. 

In addition, the EDPB considers that the provisions on data sharing in the Council’s mandate do not 
provide adequate safeguards for data subjects. This is of special concern in the context of AML/CFT, 
where,  as  mentioned  above,  the  provisions  envisaged  in  the  Council’s  mandate  could  result  in 
significant  impacts  for  individuals,  such  as  black-listing  and  exclusion  from  financial  services,  in 
particular banking services, as well as the initiation of criminal investigations and prosecutions. 

Finally, it is worth noting that the data sharing provisions in the Council’s mandate might include the 
processing of special categories of personal data (such as personal data revealing religious belief and 
political opinions), the processing of which is limited to the application of strict exemptions under 
Article 9(2) GDPR. In this regard, it is important to note that the exemption pursuant to Article 9(2)(g) 
GDPR, lifting the prohibition on processing of special categories of personal data under Article 9(1) 
GDPR, only applies where such processing is necessary for reasons of substantial public interest on 
the basis of EU or Member State law is “proportionate to the aim pursued, respect the essence of the 
right to data protection and provide for suitable and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental 
rights and the interests of the data subject”.  

However, the EDPB considers that, given the significant risks to the fundamental rights posed by the 
data  sharing  provisions  as  envisaged  in  the  Council’s  mandate,  in  particular  those  relating  to 
discrimination  (e.g.,  on  the  basis  of  religious  belief  or  political  opinion)11,  as  well  as  the  lack  of 
appropriate safeguards to mitigate them, the processing of sensitive data that would be performed in 
the context of these provisions cannot rely on Article 9(2)(g) GDPR. 

For all these reasons, the EDPB urges the co-legislators not to include Articles 54 (3a), 55(5), 55(7) 
of the Council’s mandate in the final text of the AML/CFT Regulation.  

The EDPB stands ready to provide advice to the co-legislators to ensure that the policy objectives of 
AML/CFT are pursued in full compliance with the fundamental rights to privacy and to the protection 
of personal data. 

 

Yours sincerely, 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

                                                           
11 Processing of personal data for AML purpose is likely to trigger processing of personal data on politically exposed persons, 
hence on political opinions. 
 

 

