 

 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 

 How about a robot companion?

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

January 28, 2022

Wednesday, February 2, 2 p.m.: “Surveillance or security?

Values in a digitized society” –

Workshop on data ethical perspectives in use

of digital technologies

Digitized technologies are an inseparable part of ours

Life. Through ever new possibilities of networking,

easy-to-use applications and unlimited com-

As a society, we gain more opportunities for communication

Comfort, safety and information. At the same time, digital

tal technologies are also used in many places to monitor

to manipulate and control.

On Wednesday, February 2nd, the LfDI officer for data

te ethics and digital competence Clarissa Henning in the work

shop “Surveillance or Security? values in a digital

ized society” on ethical aspects of human

Technology Interaction. The workshop

is special

for teaching

teachers and educators. Interested can

until Tuesday, February 1st, on the homepage of the

Register state representative.

- 2 -

Using the example of so-called robot companions (Companion

Bots), which are used in care, for example

could, the chances and the challenges of the

use of digital technologies for society and

individually discussed together. Elderly people could

make everyday life easier or supervise children.

Should they? How far can the monitoring by technology

(cameras, microphones, measuring instruments)? Create

Robots more security or they attack the informational

self-determination of a person? Finally to the dis-

After a kiss, the participants will receive information about materials

for teaching and learning.

 

Meeting:

Workshop “Surveillance or Security? values in one

digitized society"

Time: Wednesday, February 2, 2022 / 2-4:30 p.m

Location: internet

Registration until Tuesday, February 1st, 2022 on the homepage of the

of the representative: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-Event-2022-011/

