
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    04/04/2022
                                Facebook fan pages again under scrutinyThe admissibility of Facebook fan pages also encounters serious data protection concerns in the light of the latest higher court rulings. The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) recorded this in a short report and is thus confirmed in its long-held views. The state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, will now draw the attention of the public bodies under his supervision to the new short report on the question of the conformity of the operation of Facebook fan pages with data protection law.
Prof. Kugelmann explains: “The proceedings in which the European Court of Justice laid the basis for action against Facebook fan pages have now come to a conclusion in Germany. The result that the considerable data protection concerns were confirmed is not surprising. On this basis, the next steps must be taken. In doing so, the recommended course of action on the use of social media, which my authority has made available to the public authorities, will have to be taken into account.”
Based on the reports from the public authorities on the recommendations for action, the state commissioner already has an overview of the use of social media by the authorities. He will continue to check whether the state authorities operate Facebook fan pages. If so, the state representative will ensure that these Facebook fan pages are deactivated if those responsible cannot prove compliance with data protection law.
“The desire for citizen-oriented communication, also through digital communication, is welcome and understandable. However, illegally operated social media channels must not be used to the detriment of the citizens. Alternative communication channels must be found here that meet the data protection requirements. Kugelman.
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments had decided on action against the Facebook fan pages at their 103rd conference.
Further information: https://datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/dskb/DSK_Beschluss_Facebook_Fanpages.pdfhttps://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/weitere_dokumente/DSK_Kurzgutachten_Facebook-Fanpages_V1_18.03.2022.pdf
                                return
                            



