The Data Protection Commission (DPC) has produced three short guides for children on data protection and their rights under the GDPR. These guides are aimed mainly at children aged 13 and over, as this is the age at which children can begin signing up for many forms of social media on their own. 
The protection of children's personal data is an important priority for the DPC, and is one of the five strategic goals of our 2022-2027 Regulatory Strategy published at the end of last year. We also recently published the final version of our 'Fundamentals' guidance on children's data protection rights, to help organisations provide the special protection children merit when processing their data. But protecting children's data also means giving children the knowledge and tools to help them keep their data safe.
With this in mind, the DPC has published the following materials:
 
Data protection - what's it all about?
This guide introduces children and young people to the idea of personal data and data protection, and why it's important for them to know about it.
You can view the guide by clicking here.
 
 
My data protection rights
Each of these short guides introduces children to a different data protection right and how to use it. 
These guides can be read together or separately: 

My Data Protection Rights - full guide - is available by clicking here.
Why are data protection rights important? - click here
Knowing what's happening to your data - click here
Getting a copy of your data - click here
Getting your data deleted - click here
Saying 'no' to other people using your data - click here

 
 
Top tips for keeping your data safe online
This guide has 15 useful tips to help children - and indeed everyone - keep their personal data safe when they go online. 
You can view the guide by clicking here.
 
 
 
The DPC hopes that these guides will not only help children keep their data safe, but will also be useful for parents, educators and anyone interested in children's safety and wellbeing online.
If you have any questions about anything you read in these guides, you can email or call the DPC and we'll be happy to answer your questions.
You can find more information about how to contact us at: www.dataprotection.ie/en/contact/how-contact-us
 
